THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.

1m QIrabeIs rnuun mime Warts of ti): Globe.

 

\VRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

 

CI--IISVVICK:
from the pass of Qt. Whitting'bam,

COLLEGE HOUSE.

SOLD BY R. JENNINGS, POULTRY; T. TEGG, CHEAPSIDE;
A, K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADENHALL STREET; LONDON :
J. SUTIIERLAND, EDINBURGH;

AND RICHARD GRIFFIN AND CO. GLASGOW.

 

1822.TRE

LIFE

OF

DANIEL DE FOE.

_--

DANIEL m: Fox: was descended from a respectable '
family in the county of Northam ton, and born in
London, about the year 1663. } is father, James
Foe, was a butcher, in the parish of St. Giles's, Crip--
plegate, and a protestant dissenter. Wh the subject
of this memoir prefixed the Do to his amily name
cannot now be ascertained, nor did he at any period
of his life think it necessary to give his reasons tothe _
public. The political scribblers of the da ;'how9 .
ever, thought proper to remedy this lack n infors
mation, and accused him of possessing so little'of the
amor. patriw,as to inake the addition in orderthat.
he_ mi ht not be taken for an'Englishman; though
this i ea could have had no other foundation than
the circumstance of his having, in consequence Of his
zeal for King William, attacked the prejudices of his
countrymen 3" his " Trueborn Englishman." - -
After receiving a ood education at an academy at
Nemngton, young e Foe, before he had attained
his twenty-first year, commenced his career as an
author, by .wnting'a pamphlet against a very prev
vaillng sentiment in favour of the Turks, who were
at that time layin siege to Vienna. This prOduc'.

_tion, bein overy in erior to those of his maturer' years,
was very nttle read, and the indignant author, des-

pairing of success with his pen, had recourse to thevi LIFE or us FOE.

sword; or, as he termed it, when boasting of the ex-
ploit in his later years, " displayed his attachment
to liberty and protestantism, by joinin the ill ad-
vised insurrection under the Duke of h onmouth, in
the west. On the failure of that unfortunate enter-
prise, he returned again to the metropolis; and it
IS not improbable, but that the circumstance of his
being a native of London, and his person not much
known in that part of the kingdom where the rebel-
lion took place, might facilitate his escape, and be
the means of preventing his being brought to trial
for his share in the transaction. With the professions
of a writer and a soldier, Mr. De Foe, in the year
1685, joined that of a trader; he was first en aged
as a hosier in Cornhill, and afterwards as a ma er of
bricks and pantiles, near Tilbury Fort, in Essex;
but,in consequence of s ending those hours in the
hilarit ' of the tavern w ich he ought to have em-
ploye in the calculations of the countin house, his
commercial schemes proved unsuccessfu ; and in
1694 he was obliged to abscond from his creditors,
not failing to attribute those misfortunes to the war
and the severity of the times, which were doubtless
owing to his own misconduct. It is much to his
credit, however, that, after having been freed from
his debts by composition, and being in prosperous
circumstances from King William's favour, he volun-
tarily paid most of his creditors both the principal
and interest of their claims. This is such an example
of honesty as it would be unjust to De Foe and to
the world to conceal. The amount of the sums thus
paid must have been very considerable, as he after-
wards feelingly mentions to Lord lIaversham, who
had reproached him with covetousness; " With a
numerous family, and no helps but my own industry,
I have forced my way through a sea of misfortunes,
and reduced my debts, exclusive of com sition,
from seventeen thousand to less than five t ousand
pounds."

At the beginning of the year 1700, Mr. De Foe
published a satire In verse, which excited very con-
siderable attention, called the " The Trueborn Eng-LIFE or m: roe. vii

lishman." Its purpose was to furnish a reply to those
who were continually abusing Kin V il iam and

some of his friends as foreigners, by s owing that the
present race of Englishmen was a mixed and hete-
rogeneous brood, scarcely any of which could lay
claim to native purity of blood. The satire was in
many parts very severe; and, though it gave high
oll'ence, it claimed a considerable share of the public
attention. The reader will perhaps be. gratified by

a specimen of this production, wherein he endea-
vours to account for--

What makes this discontented land appear

Less happy now in times of peace than war;
Why civil feuds disturb the nation more

Than all our bloody wars had done before:
Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place,
And men are always honest in disgrace:

'lhe court preferments make men knaves in course,

But they, who would be in them, would be worse.
"I'is not at foreigners that we replne,

Would foreigners their perquisites resign:
The grand contention's plainly to be seen,
To get some men put out, and some put in.

It will be immediately perceived that De Foe could
have no pretensions to the character of a poet; but
he has, notwithstanding, some nervous and well ver-
sified lines, and in choice of subject and moral he is

in general excellent. The 'l'rneborn Englishman
concludes thus :--

Could but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their otl'sprin thus degenerate;

llow we contend for irth and names unknown,
4nd build on their past actions, not our own;
'1 he 'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,

A'n openly dlsown the vile degenerate race.
Ior fame of families is all a cheat,

'TIS PERSONAL VIRTUE ONLY MAKES US GREAT.

For this defence of foreigners, De Foe was amply
rewarded by King William, who not only ordered
him a pension. but, as his opponents denominated it,
aPPOinted him .pamphlet writer general to the court;
an office for which he was peculiarly well calculated,
possessing, With a strong mind and a ready wrt, that
kind of yielding conscience which allowed him to
support the measures of his benefactors, though con-
vinced they were injurious to his country. De Foe
now retired to Newington with his family, and fora
short time lived at case; but the death of his myal
patron deprived him of a generous protector, and
opened a scene of sorrow which probably imbittered
his future life.

He had always discovered a great inclination to
engage in religious controversy, and the furious con-
test, civil and ecclesiastical, which ensued on the
accession of Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity
of gratifying his favourite passion. He therefore
published a tract. entitled " The shortest Way with
the Dissenters, or Proposals for the Establishment
of the Church," which contained an ironical recom-
mendation of persecution, but written in so serious
a strain that man) persons, particularly Disscuters,
at first mistook its real intention. The high church
part}, however, saw and felt the ridicule, and, by
their influence, a prosecution was commenced against
him, and a proclamation published in the (iazette,
oll'ering a reward for his apprehension *. When De
Foe found with how muclt rigour himself and his
pamphlet w ere about to he treated, he at first secret-
ed himself; but his printer and bookseller being
taken into custody, he wrremh-red, being resolved,as
he expresses it, " to throw himself upon the favourof
government, rather than that others should be ruined

" St. James's. January 10, 1702-3.

' " Whereas Daniel De l'oe, alias De l-'ooe, is charged with
writing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet, entitled ' The
shortest \\ ay with the Dissentersz' he is a middle-sized spare
man, about forty wars old, of a brown complexion, and dark
brown Cululllcd hair, but wears a wig ; a hooked nosc,a sharp
chin, gray eyes, and a large mole near his mouth, was born itt
London, and [or many 3ears was a hose-factor in Freeman's
Yard, in Cornhill, and now is owner of the brick and pantile
works near l'ilbury Furl, in l-lssex; whoever shall discover
the said Daniel De Foe. to one of her Majesty's Principal
Secretaries of State, or any of her Majesty's Justices of Peace,
80 as he may be apprehended, shall have a reward of titty
pounds. which her Majesty has ordered immediately to be paid
upon such discovery."--LundC/m Gaz. No. 3879.mes or ma roe. ix

.. for his mistakes." In July, 1703. he was brought to
trial, found guilty. and sentenced to be imprisoned,
.: to stand in the pillory, and to pay a fine of two
i" hundred marks. He underwent the infamous part
,. of the punishment with great fortitude; and it seems
' to have been generally thought that he was treated
with unreasonable severity. So far was he from
;_ being ashamed of his fate himself that he wrote a
: hymn to the pillory, which thus ends, alluding to his
accusersz--

Tell them. the. men that placed him here
Are scandals to the times;

  
    

Are at a loas to find his guilt,
And can't commit his crimes.

3 Pope, who has thought fit to introduce him in his
1

,3 Dunctad (probably from no other reason than party
a dillerence), characterises him in the followmg line:--
S

Rarless on high stood unabash'd De Foe.

,- This is one of those instances of injustice and malig-
nity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and
'= which reflect more dis-honour on the author than on
- the parties traduced. De Foe lay friendless and
. . ' distressed in New ate, his famil ruined, and himself
f iwithout hopes of eliverance, tiii Sir Robert Harley,
A; who approved of his principles, and foresaw that
iduring a factions age such a genius could be con-
; verted to many uses, represented his unmerited suf7.' '
ferings to the Queen, and at length procured his
3 release. The treasurer, Lord (iodolphin, also sent-
a_ considerable sum to his wife and family, and to
- him money to pay his fine and the expense of his
discharge. Gratitude and fidelity are iuse rable
from an honest man ; and it was this benevo ent act
that prompted De Foe to support Harley with his
able and ingenious pen, when Anne lay lifeless, and
hts benefactor, in the vicissitude of party, was per-

secuted by faction, and overpowered, though not
conquered, by violence.

The talents and perseverance of De Foe began
now to be properly estimated, and, as a firm sup-'
porter of the administration, he was sent by LordX LIFE OF DE FOE.

Godolphin to Scotland, on an errand which, as he
says, was far from being unfit for a sovereign to
direct, or an honest man to perform. llis know-
ledge of commerce and revenue, his powets of in-
sinuation, and, above all, his readiness of pen, were
deemed of no small utility in promoting the union
of the two kingdoms; of which he wrote an able
history in 1709, with two dedications, one to the
Queen, and another to the Duke of Queensbury.
Soon afterwards he unhappily, by some equivocal
writings, rendered himself suspected by both parties,
so that he once more retired to Newington, in hopes
of spending the remainder of his days in peace.
Ilis pension being withdrawn. and wearied with
politics, he began to compose works of a different
kind--T he vear 1715 may therefore be regarded as
the eriod of De F oe's political life. Faction hence-
forti found other advocates, and parties procured
other writers to disseminate their suggestions, and to
prOpagate their falsehoods.

In 1715 De Foe ublished the " Family Instruc-
tor ;" a work incu cutting the domestic duties in a
lively manner. by narration and dialogue, and dis-
playing much knowledge of life in the middle ranks
of society. " Religious Courtship" also appeared
soon after, which, like the Family Instructor, is
eminently religious and moral in its tendency, and
strongly impresses on the mind that spirit of sobriety
and private devotion, for which the dissenters have
generally been distinguished. The most celebrated
of all his works, " The Life and Adventures of R0-
binson Crusoe," appeared in 1719. This work has
lassed through numerous editions, and been trans-
ath into almost all modern languages. The great
invention which is displayed in it, the variety of in-
cidents and circumstances which it contains, related
in the most easy and natural manner, together with
the excellency of the moral and religious reflections,
render it a performance of very superior and uncom-
mon merit, and one of the most interesting works
that ever appeared. It is strongly recommended,

by Rousseau, as a book admirably calculated to pro-LII-"E or on son. xi

Quote the purioses of natural education; and Dr.
'fmlair says, " 0 fiction in any language was ever
3' ~ .

SSbetter supported than the Adventures of Robinson
.gCrusoe. \ 'hile it is carried on with that appear-
.jsgance of truth and simplicity which takes a strong
Engld of the imagination of all readers, it suggests, at
tithe same time, very useful instruction; by showin

{Lhow much the native powers of man may be exerte
)'Yor surmounting the difficulties of any external situ-
gation." It has been pretended, that De Foe sur-
:- re )titiously appropriated the )apers of Alexander
:, Se kirk, a Scotch mariner, who ived four years alone

7_ on the island of Juan Fernandez, and a sketch of
i whose story had before ap eared in the voyage of
f Captain Woodes Rogers. tut this charge, though
firepeatedly and confidently brought, a pears to be
f_ totally destitute of any foundation. Be Foe pro-'
z. 5 bably took some general hints for his work from the
.'gSlOl'y of Selkirk, but there exists no proof whatever,

gnor is it reasonable to suppose that he possessed
:'tany of his papers or memoirs, which had been
ublished seven years before the a pearance of

'3' {obinson Crusoe. As a farther proo of De F oe's
ginnoeence, Captain Rogers's Account of Selkirk may
;}!be. produced, in which it is said that the latter had

t'netther preserved pen, ink, or paper, and had, in a

'freat measure, lost his language; consequently De

'oe could not have received any written assistance,

'and we have only the assertion of his enemies to
prove that he had any verbal.

i; The great success of Robinson Crusoe induced its
author to write a number of other lives and adven-
tures, some of which were popular in their times,

though at present nearly forgotten. One of his latest
:- 'ubhcattons was " A Tour through the Island of
j, reat Britain," a performance of very inferior merit;
i at .De Foe was now the garrulous old man, and his
pint (to use the words of an ingenious biographer
; like a candle struggling in the socket, blazed an

unk, blazed and sunk, till it disappeared at length
gel!) total darkness." llis laborious and unfortunate

Ife. was finished on the 26th of April, 173], in the
, ansh of St. Giles's, Cripplegate.
Daniel De Foe possessed very extraordinary ta-
lents; as a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled
to stand in the foremost rank among his contempo-
raries, whatever may be their performances or their
fame. llis distinguishing characteristics are origi-
nality, spirit. and a profound knowledge of his sub-
ject; and in these particulars he has seldom been
surpassed. As the author of Robinson Crusoe, he
has a claim not only to the admiration, but to the
gratitude of his countrymen; and so long as we
lave a regard for supereminent merit, and take an
interest in the u elfare of the rising generation, that
gratitude will not cease to exist. But the opinion
of the learned and ingenious Dr. Beattie "'lll be
the best eulogium that can be pronounced on that
celebrated romance: " Robinson Crusoe," says the
Doctor, "must be allowed, by the most rigid Ino-
ralist, to be one of those novels which one may
read, not only with pleasure, but also with protit.
It breathes throughout a spirit of piety amt benevo-
lence; it sets in a very striking light the importance
of the mechanic arts, which they, who know not
what it is to be without them, are so apt to under-
value; it fixes in the mind a lively idea of the hor-
rors of solitude. and, consequently, of the sweets
of social life, and of the blt'SSillg'S we derive from
conversation and mutual aid: and it shows how, by
labouring with oue's own hands, one may secure in-
dependence, and open for ones self many sources
of h'alth and amusement. I agree, therefore, with
Rousseau, that it is one of the. best books that can
be put into the hands of children."-
b

.

.{Q-

 

2:?

a

1;:

-.7 Tm>>:

;

LI FE AND ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

*5 I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, ofa

U

good family, though not of that country, my father being
'; a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull: he

fl

:5 got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving at? his
jf; trade. lived afterwards at York; from whence he had
3: married my mother, whose relations were named R0-
1:: biuson, a very good family in that country, and from
3'>> whom I was called Robinson Krentznaer; but. by the
f usual corruption of words in England, we are now call-
:3' " ed, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name Crusoe;
and so my companions always called me.

1].. I had two elder brothers. one of whom was lieutenant.
371$. colonel to an English re iment of foot in Flanders, for-
it" merly commanded by t e famous Colonel Lockhart,
'4 and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the
E Spaniards. What became of my second brother I never
; knew, any more than my father and mother did know '
3;! what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
1. trade, my head began to be filled very early with ramb-
_ ling thoughts: my father, who was very ancient, had
'- given me a competent share of learning, as far as house

education and a country freeoschool enerally go, and

5- designed me for the law; but I wonlg be satisfied with
f' VOL. I. ' n
J?)

\.-g
~ .5
'2

5%
a;
nothing but going to sea; and my inclination to this led
me so strongly against the will, nay, the. commands of
my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions
of my mother and other friends, that there. seemed to
be something fatal in that propension of nature, tending
directly to the life of misery whiell was to befall me.

My fallll't'. a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and est-ellent counsel against what he foresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon this subject: he asked me
what reasons more than a mere wandering inclination
I had for leaving my father's house and my native
country, where I might be well introduced. and bad a
prospect of raising my fortune bv application: and in-
dustry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me
it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of
aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
out of the common road; that these things were all
either too far above me, or too far below me; that
mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper station oflow lite. which he had found, by long
experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human happiness, not exposed to the miseries
and hardships, the labours and sufferings, of the mecha-
nic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the
pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part
of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happi-
ness of this state by one thing, viz. that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable consequences
of being born to great things, and wished they had been
placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testi-
mony to this, as thejust standard of true felicity, when
he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so manyoe nonmson causes. 3

mvicissitudcs as the higher or lower part of mankind deg
finav, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
imieasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were,
2 who. by vicious living, luxury, and extravagances, on
*3 one hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and
vinean and insuflicient diet, on the other hand, bring dis-
fitelnpt'rs upon themselves by the natural consequences of
,Stheir way ofJiving: that the middle station oflife was
51 calculated for all kind of virtues and all kind of enjo -
3 ments; that peace and plenty were the handmaids o a
middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quiet-
, ness, health. society, all agreeable diversions, and all
{'desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently
f and smoothly through the world, and comfortably out
got'it, nut embarrassed with the labours of the hands or
ol' the head, nor sold to the life of slavery for dail
.' bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, whic n
'j rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest ; not enraged
with the passion of envy, or secret burning lust of am-
; hition for great things; but, in easy circumstances,
ssliding gently tlu~mtgh the world, and sensibly tasting
{ithe sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling that
._ithey are happy, and learning, by every day's experience
{to know it more sensibly.

'jg- After this, be pressed me earnestly, and in the most
'E-jall'ectionate manner, not to play the young man, not to
lipreeipitate myself into miseries which nature, and the
fjstation of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
fgagainst; that l was under no necessity of seeking my
gbread ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to
gienter me fairly into the station of life which he had been
:35th recommending to me; and that, if I was not: very
jgeasy and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate
13,0:- tault that must hinder it; and that he should have
fisjjnothtng to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
jn warning me against measures which he knew would
the to my hurt: in a word, that as he would do very
ngglilllti.llllllgs for me if! would stay and settle at home as
e directed, so he would not have so much hand in my
tsfortunes, as to give me any encouragement to go

- way: and to close all, he told me I had my elder bro-
ther for an example, to whom he had used the same

earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the
Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he
was killed; and though he said he would not cease to
pray for me, yet he would venture to sa to me, that if

did take this foolish step, God wouldyuot bless me,
and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon hav-
ing neglected his counsel, when there might be none to
assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though [suppose my father did not
know it to he so himself; lsav, I observed the tears
run down his face very plentifully, and especially when
he spoke of my brother who was killed: and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to re cut, and none to
assist me, he was so moved, that he roke off the dis-

course, and told me, his heart was so full he could say
no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to settle at home according
to my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all
off; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further

importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to run
quite away from him. However, 1 did not act so has-

tily neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted, but
1 took my mother, at a time when I thought her a little
pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts
were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I
should never settle to any thing with resolution enough
to go through with it, and my father had better give
me his consent than force me to go without it; that l
was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that l
was sure, if ldid, 1 should never serve out my time,
and I should certainly run away from my master before
my time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak
to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, ifl came
home again, and did not like it, I would go no more,

and I would promise, by a double diligence, to recover
that time I had lost.or ROBINSON causes. 5

  

iii?"

9
-

W913i

This put my mother into a great passion: she told me,
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my fa-
ther upon any such subject; that he knew too well what
was my interest to give his consent to any such thing
so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think ofany such thing after such a discourse as
I had had with my father, and such kind and tender ex-
pressions as she knew my father had used to me; and
that, in short, ifl would ruin myself, there was no help
for me; but I might depend I should never have their
consent to it: that for her part, she would not have so
much hand in my destruction; and 1 should never have
it to say, that my mother was willing when my father
was not. .

Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the
discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, " That boy
might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he
goes abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that
was ever born; I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this thatI broke
loose, though, in the meantime, I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre-
quently expostulating with my father and mother about
their being so positively determined against what they
knew my inclinations prompted me to. But being one
day at Hull, where I went casually, and without any
purpose of making an elopement at that time; but, I
say, being there, and one of my companions then going
by sea to London, in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them, with the common alluremcnt of
seafaring men, viz. that it should cost me nothing for
my passage, I consulted neither father or mother any
more, nor so much as sent them word ofit; hnt leaving
them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's
blessing, or my father's, without any consideration of
circumstances or consequences, and It] an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1651, I went on board
a ship bound for London. Never any young adven-
turer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or conti-
nued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten
out of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and
the waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I
had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now se-

riously to rellect upon what I had done, and how justly
l was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for Wick-

edly leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty.
All the good counsel of my parents, my father's tears
and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my
mind; and my conscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has been since. re-

proached me with the contempt of advice, and the
reach of my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which
I had never been upon before, went very high, though
nothing like what 1 have seen many times since;_no,
nor like what I saw a few days after: but it wasenough
to affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and had
never known any thing of the matter. 1 expected
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that
every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more;
and in this agony of mind I made many vows and reso-
lutions, that if it would please God here to spare my
life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon
dry land again, I would go directly home to my father,
and never set it into a ship again while I lived ; that I
would take his advice, and never run myself into such.t . .'n

.r.

. 5? waste-n. '

 

55
g
~11
"Y
,3:

 

or nonmson causes. 7

miseries as these any more. Now] saw plainly the
goodness of his observations about the middle station
of life, how easy, how comfortably be had lived all his
davs, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea,
or'troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like
a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued during the
storm, and indeed some time after; but the next day,
as the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, I began to
be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for
all that dav, being also still a little seasick; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over,

and a charming fine evening followed; the sun went
down perfectly clear, and rose so next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that I ever saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was no more sea-
sick, very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea

that was so rough and terrible the da before, and conld
be so calm and so pleasant in a Iitt e time after. And
now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my com-
panion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me
and said, " \Vell, Bob," clapping me on the shoulder,
" how do you do after it? I warrant you were fright-
med, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew but a cap-full
of wind?"--" A cap-full, do you call it?" said, '5 " it
was a terrible storm."--" A storm, you fool you," re-
plied he, " do you call that a storm? why it was nothing
at all; give us but a good ship and sea room, and we
think nothing of such a squal of wind as that; but

you're but a fresh water sailor, Bob. Come, let us
make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; do you
see what charming weather it is now?" To make short
this sad part of my story, we went the old way of all
sailors; the pum-h was made, and l was made drunk
with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past con-
duct, and all my resolutions for the future. In a word,
as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the

hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and appre-
bensions of being swallowed up by the sea being for-

otten, and the current of my former desires returned,
gentirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in
my distress. I found, indeed, some. intervals of rellcc-
tion; and serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavour
to return again sometimes; but I shook them off, and
roused myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and applying myself to drinking and company, soon
mastered the return of those tits ; for so I called them ;
and I had in live or six days got as complete a victory
over conscience as any young fellow, that resolved not
to be troubled with it, could desire: but I was to have
another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
without excuse: for if I would not take this for a deli-
verance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy of.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yar-
montb Roads, the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to anchor, and
here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at south
west, for seven or eight days, during which time a
great many ships from Newcastle came into the same
roads, as the common harbour where the ships might
wait for a wind for the River.

"'0 had not, however, rid here so long, but should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and, after we had lain four or five days, blew
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good
as a harbour, the anchorage good,and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the
least apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest
and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth
day in the morning the wind increased, and we had all

hands at work to strike our topmasts, and make every
thing snug and close, that the ship might ride as eas

as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeedy,
and our ship rode forecastlc in, shipped several seas,
and we thought once or twice our anchor had come
home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anehors ahead, and
the cables veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the. seamen themselves. The master, thou h
vigilant in the business ofpreserving the ship, et as no
went in and out of his cabin by me, I eould near him
softly say to bimselfseveral times, " Lord, be merciful
to us! we shall be all lost; we shall be all undone!" and
the like. During these first hurries l was stupid, lying
still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot
describe my temper: I could ill reassume the first pe-
nitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself against: I thought the bitterness of
death had been passed, and that this would be nothing
like the first: but when the master himself came by
me, as I said just now, and said we should be all last,
I was dreadfully frighted: I got up out of my cabin,
and looked out; but such a dismal sight! never saw ;
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us every
three or four minutes: when I could look about, I
could see 'nothiug but distress around us: two ships
that rid near us, we found, had cut their masts by the
board, being deep laden ; and our men cried out, that
a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us was founder-
ed. Two more ships, being driven from their anebOrs,
were run out oftbe roads to sea, at all adventures, and
that with not a mast standing. The light sbi s fared
the best, as not so much labouring in the sea; at two
or three oftbem drove, and came close b us, running .
away with only their spritsail out before t 0 wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswaiu begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast,
which he was very unwilling to do: but the boatswain
protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship would

ounder. he consented; and when they had cut awa
the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shoe
the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away
also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been
In such a fright before at but a little. But if I can ex-10 LIFE AND ADvi-zmcnes

press at this distance the thoughts that I had about me
at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon
account of my former convictions, and the having re-
turned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itsell'; and these,
added to the terror of the storm, put me in such a con-
dition, that I can by no words describe it. But the
worst was not come yet ; the storm continued with such
fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they
had never known a worse. \Ve had a good ship, but
she was deep laden, and vallowed in the sea, that the
seamen every now and then cried out, she would
founder. It was my advantage in one respect, thatl
did not know what they meant by founder, ll" 1 inquir-
ed. However, the storm was so violent, that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers,
and expecting every moment when the ship would go
to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest of our distresses, one of the men that had
been down on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprung
a leak; another said, there was four foot water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thought, died within me,
and I tell backwards upon the side of my bed where I
sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, that was able to do nothing before, was
as well able to pump as another; at which I stirred up,
and went to the pump and worked very heartily. While
this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers,
who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to
slip and run away to sea, and would not come near us,
ordered us to lire a gun as a signal ot'distress. 1, who
knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that I
thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had
happened. In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell
down in a swoon. As this was a time when every body
had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or
what was become of me; but another man stepped up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let
me lie, thinking I had been dead, and it was a great
while before 1 came to myself.5 OF ROBINSON cnusoa. 11

g "'e worked on; but the water increasing in the

5 hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder; and

? though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was

t not possible she could swim till we might run into a
9 port, so the master continued tiring guns for help; and
a light ship, who had rid it out just a-head of us, verb
tured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost

_; hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for
.~-' us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
'3 side, till at last the men rowingvery heartily, and ven-
Zi turing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a
. rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered
,, it out a great length, which they, after great labour and
:3 hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under
3; our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no
purpose for them or us. after we were in the boat, to

think of reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to

let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as
,, much as we could; and our master promised them,
i that if the boat was staved upon shore he would make
it good to their master: so partly rowing and partly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping
towards the shore almost as far as \Vinterton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out ofour ship before we saw her sink, and then I under-
stood for the tirst time what was meant by a ship foun-
, dering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly
, eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sink-
? ing; for from that mmnent they rather put me into the
boat, than that I might be said to go in; my heart was,
as. it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet
before me.
. While we were in this condition, the men yet labour-
. tug at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we
could see (when, our boat mounting the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many people running
along the strand to assist us when we should come
near; but we made but slow way towards the shore;
nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the light-
house at \Vinterton, the shore falls off to the westward,
towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the
violence ofthe wind. Here we got in, and, though not
without much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as un-
fortunate men, we were used with great humanity, as
well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned us
good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners
of ships, and had money given us sufficient to carry us
either to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father,
an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even
killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I
went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was

a great while before he had any assurance that I was
not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an ohstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several
times loud calls from my reason, and my more com-
posed judgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do
it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it
is a secret overruling decree that hurries us on to he
the instruments of our own destruction, even though it
be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes
open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed una--
voidable misery attending, and which it was impossible
for me to escape, could have pushed me forward against
the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired
thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as I
had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for
we were separated in the town to several quarters; I
say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was
altered, and looking very melancholy, and shaking his
head, asked me how I did, and telling his father who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go farther abroad ; his father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Young man,"
says he, " you ought never to go to sea any more; you
ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you
arc not to he a seafaring man.---" \Vhy, Sir." said I,
.. will you go to sea no more?" "That is another case,"
said he ; " it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but
as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a
taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect
ifyou persist. Perhaps this has all hefallen us on your
account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Prav,"
continues he, " what are you; and on what account did
you go to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my
stor ; at the end of which he burst out in a strange
kimiof passion; " What had I done," says he, " that
such an unhappy wretch should come into my ship? I
would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again
for a thousand pounds." This indeed was, as I said, an
excursion ofhis spirits, which were yet agitated by the
sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have
authority to go. However, he afterwards talked very
gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father,
and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; told me I might
see a visible hand of Heaven against me. " And young
man," said he, " depend upon it, if you do not go back,
wherever on go, you will meet with nothing but disas-

ters and isappointments, till your father's words are
fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more: which way he went,[ know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
traveled to London by land; and there, as well as on
the road, had many struggles with myself, what course
of life 1 should take, and whether I should go home, or
go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best notions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
curred to me how I should he laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even every body else; from
whence l have since often observed, how incongruous
apd irrational the common temper of mankind is, espe-
cially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide
them in such cases, viz. that they are not ashamed to
sun, and yet are ashamed to repent; nor ashamed of the
action for which they ought justly to he esteemed fools,1-1 Lin: as n ADVENTURES

but are ashamed ofthe returning, which only can make
them he esteemed wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of
life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home; aml as I stayed a while. the rememhranee
of the distress I had been in were oll'; and as that
ahated, the little notion I had in my desires to a return
wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts
ofil. and looked out for a toy age.

That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune ; and that. im-
pressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and
even the commands of my father: I say, the same in-
fluence, whatever it was, presented the tnost unfortu-
nate. ofall enterprisesto my view; and I went on board
a vessel hound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors
vulgarly call it, a \ oyage. to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though
1 might indeed have worked a little harder than ordi-
nary, yet at the same time I had learned the duty and
olliee of a foremast-ntan ; and in time might have qua-
lilied myself for a mate. or lieutenant, if not for a master.
But as it was always tny fate to choose for the worse, so
I (lid here ; for having money in my pocket, and good
clothes upon my back, I would always go on hoard in
the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither had any bu-
siness in the ship. or learned to do any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and unguided young fellows as I then was; the
devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for them
very early: hut it was not so with me. I first fell ac-
quainted with the master ol'a ship whohad'been on the
coast of Guinea ; and who, having had very good suc-
cess there, was resolved to go again; and who, taking
a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all disa-
greeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to
see the world, told me if I would go the voyage with
:'liim I should be at no expense; I should be his mess-
:mate and his companion; and if I could carry any
ithing with me, I should_have all the advantage of it
gathat the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet.
{with some encouragement.

"I I embraced the otl'er; and entering into a strict
; riemlsliip with this captain, who was an honest and
'E'gilain--dealing man, I Went the voyage with him, and
firarried a small adventure with me, which, by the disin-
ifilerested honesty of my frieml the captain.I inceased
~SSvery considerably; for I carried about PS40 in suelt
gloss and tritles as the captain directed me to buy.

"i'l'his PS40 I had mustered together by the assistance of
? 'ome of my relations whom I corresponded with, and
'gwho, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to

[contribute so much as that to my first adventure.

g This was the only voy age in whieh I may say I was
'P'gnecessfnl in all my adventures, aml which I owe to
ill-ll"! integrity and honesty of my friend the captain;
finnder whom also I got a competent knowledge of the

{mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how to
ngIu-ep an account of the ship's course, take an observa-
vjion. and, in short, to understand some things that were
{gilt-edful to be understood by a sailor: for, as lie took
e'ilclight to instruct me, I took delight to learn; aml, in
.351 word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
Tfizthautz for I brought home live pounds nine ounces of
'g'eguld-dust for my adventure. which yielded me in Lon-
'aefdon at my return almost PS300, and this filled me with

(ghost: aspiring thoughts which have so completed my
{:l'um.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too;
articularly. that I was continually sick, being thrown
"to a HOlt'tll caleuture by the excessive heat of the
tllmate; our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line

  

(rifle , 0475:.

2" lself.

it}: _I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
gritt'lt'tld, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his ar-
fllval, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and I
1395: mbarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate

# n his former my age, and had now got the command of

5

t
'the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever
man made; for though I did not carry quite PS100 of
mg new-gained wealth, so that I had PS200 left, and
w ich I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very
just to me, et I fell into terrible misfortunes in this
voyage ; audythe first was this, viz. our ship making her
course towards the Canary Islands, or rather between
those islands and the African shore. was surprised in
the gray of the morning by a Turkish rover, of Sallee,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make.
\Ve crowded also as much canvass as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry to have got clear; but find-
iug the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; .
our ship having twelve guns, and the rover eighteen.
About three in the afternoon he came up with us. and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, in-
stead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a
broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small
shot from near 200 men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to de-
feud ourselves; but laying us on board the next time
upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the
sails and rigging. We plied them with small shot,
half pikes, powder chests, and such like, and cleared
our deck of them twice. However, to cut short this
melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled,
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we

were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners
into Sallee, a ort belonging to the Moors.

The usage had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended; nor was I carried up the country to the
emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize,
and made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for
his business. At this surprising change of my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was
perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophetic discourse to me, that I should be
miserable, and have none to relieve me, which I thought
was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had over-
taken me, and I was undone without redemption: but,
alas! this was but a taste of the misery l was to go
through, as will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to
his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with
him when he went to sea again, believing that it would
Some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portugal man of war; and that then I should be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away; for when he went to sea, he left me on shore to
look after his little garden, and do the common drud-
gery of slaves about his house; and when he came
home again from the cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
cabin to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it: nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody

-to communicate it to that would embark with me, no
fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotcbman
there but myself; so that for two years, though I often
pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had
the least encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some at-
tempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron
lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his
ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money. he used
constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if
the weather was fair, to take the shi 's pinnace, and go
out into the road a-fishing; and as he always took me
and a young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made
him very merry, and 1 proved very dexterous in catch-
ing fish; insomuch that semetimes he would send me
with a Moor, one of his kiusmen, and the outh of
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dis of fish
for him. .

It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark
VOL. I. C
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were
not half a league from the shore we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we
laboured all day, and all the next night, and when the
morning came we found we had pulled off to sea in-
stead ot' pulling in for the shore; and that we were at
least two leagues from the shore: however, we got well
in again, though with a great deal of labour and some
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, reso red to
take tnore care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of our English ship he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a-lishing any more
without a compass and some provision; so he ordered
the carpenter of his ship, who also was an English
slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin, in the mid-
dle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place
to stand behind it to steer and haul home the main.
sheet: and room before for a hand or two to stand and
work the sails; she sailed with what we call a shoulder
of mutton sail ; and the boom gibbed over the top of
the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and bad in it
room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to
eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles of
such liquor as he thought lit to drink; and particularly
his bread, rice, and coll'ee.

\Ve went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never
went without me. It happened that he had appointed
to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish,
with two or three Moors of some distinction in that
place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily,
and had therefore sent on board the boat over-night a
larger store of provisions than ordinary; and had or-
dered me to get ready three l'uzees with powder and
shot, which were on board his ship; for that they de-
signed some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat washed clean, her
ensign and pendants out, and every thing to accommo-
date his guests; when by and by my patron came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put off going,
upon some business that fell out, and ordered me with
the man-and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and
catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup
at his house; and commanded that as soon as I got
some fish I should bring it home to his house; all which
I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone,
I prepared to furnish m self, not for fishing business,
but for a voyage; thong) I knew not, neither did I so
much as consider, whither I should steer ; for any
where, to get out of that place, was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of
our patron's bread ; he said, that was true: so he
brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew
where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident, by the make, were taken out of some English
Rrize, and l conveyed them into the boat while the

[cor was on shore, as if they had been there before for
our master: I conve ed also a great lump of bees-wax

into the boat, whicn weighed above half a hundred
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a
saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use to us
afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Ano-
ther trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
into also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley,
or Moley; so I called him: " Moley," said I, " our
patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not get a
ittle powder and shot? it may be we may kill some
alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I
know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship." " Yes,"
says he, " I'll bring some ;" and accordingly he brought
a great leather pouch which held about a pound and a
half of powder, or rather more; and another with shot,
that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat: at the same time I had found some
powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I
tilled one of the large bottles in'the case, which was al-
most empty, pouring what was in it into another; and
thus furnished with everv thing needful, we sailed out
ofthe port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance
of the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of
us: and we were not above a mile out of the port be-
fore we hauled in our sail. and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from the N.N.E. which was contrary to
my desire; for bad it blown southerly, I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to
the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which
way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
where I was. and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and eatehed nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them
up, that he might not see them, I said to the Moor,
" This will not do; our master will not he thus served;
we must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed, and being in the head of the boat set the sails;
and as I had the helm I ran the boat out near a league
farther, and then brought her to as if I would fish;
when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
something behind him, I took him by surprise with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard
into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like
a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, told
me he would go all over the world with me. He swam
so strong after the boat, that he would have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the
fowliug-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him, I
had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I
would do him none : " But," said I, " you swim well
enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm;
make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you
no harm; but ifyou come near the. boat I'll shoot you
through the head, for I am resolved to havemy liberty ;"
so he turned himself about, and swam for the shore,
and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. \Vhen he was gone I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him,

" Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make you a
great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be
true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's
beard, " I must throw you into the sea too." The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could

not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.

While I was in view ofthe Moor that was swimming,
I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretch-
ing to windward, that they might think we gone
towards the Straits' tnouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailed on to the
southward, to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole
nations of Negroes were sure to surround us with their
canoes, and destroy us ; where we could never once go
on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts,
or more merciless savages of humankind!

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east, bend-
ing my course a little toward the east, that I might
keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of

wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail that I
believe by the next day at three o'clock in the after-
noon, wheu I first made the land, I could not be less
than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the Em-
peror of Morocco's dorninious, or indeed of any other
'ing thereabout, for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till I had
sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the southward, I concluded also that if any
of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would now
give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and
come to anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, or where; neither what latitude, what coun-
try, what nation, or what river: I neither saw, nor de-
sired to see, any people; the principal thing I wanted
was fresh water. We came into this creek in the even-
ing, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark,
and discover the country ; but, as soon as it was quite
dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not
what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with
fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day.
" Well, Xury," said I, "then I won't; but it may be
we may see men by day, who will be as bad to us as
those lions."--" Then we give them the shoot gun,"
says Xury, laughing, " make them run wey." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves.
However I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and
I took it; we dropped our little anchor, and lay still all
night; 1 say still, for we slept none; for in two or three
hours we saw vast great creatures (we knew not what
to call them) of many sorts, come down to the seashore
and run into the water, wallowing and washing them-
selves for the pleasure of cooling 'hemselves; and they
made such hideous howlings and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I
too; but we were both more frightened when we heard
one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards
our boat; we could not see him, but we might hear
him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious
beast ; Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for
aught I lmow; but poor any cried to me to weigh
the anchor and row away: " No," says I, " Xury ; we
can slip our cable with the buoy to it, and go off to sea;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so,
but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) within
two oars'length, which something surprised me; how-
ever, I immediately stepped to the cabin door, and tak-
ing up my gun, fired at him; upon which he immedi-
ately turned about, and swam towards the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the

country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing I
have some reason to believe those creatures had never
heard before: this convinced me that there was no

going on shore for us in the night upon that coast, and
how to venture on shore in the day was another aes-
tion too; for to have fallen into the hands of any 0 the

savages had been as bad as to haveIfallen into the hands

of lions and tigers; at least we were equally apprehen-
sive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left
in the boat; when or where to get it, was the point:
Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one of
the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go?
why I should not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy
answered with so much affection, that made me love
him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, they eat
me, you go wey."--" \Vell, Xury," said I, " we will
both go, and ifthe wild mans come, we will kill them,
they shall eat neither of us." So I gave any a piece
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case
of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hauled
the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper,

and so waded to shore; carrying nothing but our arms,
and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river: but
the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it ; and by and by I saw him come running
towards me. I thought he was pursued by some
savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and I run for-
ward towards him to help him, but when I came nearer
to him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders,
which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, but
different in colour, and longer legs; however, we were

very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the
great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had found good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we found the water fresh when the tide was

out, which flows but a little way up; so we filled our
jars, and feasted onithe hare we had killed, and pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of

any human creature in that part ot'the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I

knew very well that the islands ofthe Canaries, and the
Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far oll'from the coast.
But as I had no instruments to take an observation to
know what latitude we were in, and not exactly know-
ing, or at least remembering, what latitude they were
in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to
stand otl' to sea towards them; otherwise I might now
easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that
part where the English traded, I should find some of
their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that
would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was, must be that country, which, lying between the
emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies
waste, and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the Ne-
groes having abandoned it, and gone farther south for
fear ol'the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its harrenness; and indeed
both forsaking it because ofthe prodigious numbers of
tigers, lions, and leopards, and other furious creatures
which harbour there; so that the Moors use it for their
hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and indeed for near an hundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing
but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice in the day-time I thought I saw the
Pico of'l'enerill'e, being the high top of the Mountain
'I'cneritl'e in the Canaries; and had a great mind to ven-
ture out, in the hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, 1 was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I
resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along the
shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morumg, we came to an anchor under
a-little point of land which was pretty high; and the
tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in.
Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems
mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we had
best go farther otl' the shore; " for," says he, " look
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hil-
lock fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw
a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade
ot'a piece of the bill that hung as it were a little over
him. " Xury," says I, " you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xury looked frightened, and said, " Me kill!
he eat me atone mouth ;" one mouthful he meant: how-
ever, I said no more to the boy, but had him lie still,
and I took our biggest gun, which was almost musket-
bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and
with two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another
gun with two bullets; and the third (for we had three
pieces), I loaded with live smaller bullets. I took the
best aim I could with the tirst piece to have shot him in
the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up, growling at first, but
tinding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever] heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
hit him on the head; however] took up the second
piece immediately, and, though he began to move off,
tired again. and shot him in the head, and had the plea-
sure to see him drop. and make but little noise, but lie
struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would
have me let him go on shore; " "'ell, go," said I; so
the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun
in one hand, swam to shore with the other, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle ofthe piece to his
ear, and shot him in the head again, which dispatched
him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and l was very sorry to lose three charges ofpowder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he would have some of him; so
be comes on board, and asked me to give him the hat-
chet. " For what, Xury?" said I, " Me cut off his
head," said he. However, Xury could not cut off his
head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and
it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other he of some value to us;
and I resolved to take off his skin ifl could. So Xury
and I went to work with him; but Xury was much the
better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it.
Indeed it took us both uptbe whole day, but at last we
got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the tap of
our cabin, the sun efl'ectually dried it in two days' time,
and it afterwards served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward conti-
nually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on
our provisions, which began to abate very much, and
going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged
to for fresh water: my design in this was, to make the
river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say, any where about
the Cape de Verd, where l was in hopes to meet with
some EurOpean ship; and ifl did not, I knew not what
course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the
ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this
Cape, or those islands; and in a word, I put the whole
of my fortune upon this single point, either that I must
meet with some ship, or must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days

longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhabited ; and in two or three places, as we sailed by,
we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
could also perceive they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them ; but Xury was my better counsellor, and said to
me, " No go, no go." However, I hauled in nearer
the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they
run along the shore by me a good way: I observed
they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who
had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance,
and that they would throw them a great way with a
good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with them
by signs as well as I could ; and particularly made signs
for something to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon this
I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of
them ran up into the country, and in less than half an
hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of
dry flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of their
country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other
was: however, we were willing to accept it, but how to
come at it was our next diSpute, for I was not for ven-
turing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid
of us: but they took a safe way for us all, for they
brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing I,
to make them amends: but an opportunity oll'ered that '
very instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we
were lying by the shore came two might creatures,
one pursuing the other (as we took it) wit I great fury
from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was
the male pursuing the female, or whether they were in
sport or rage, we could not tell, any more than we could
tell whether it was usual or strange, but] believe it
was the latter; because, in the first place, those ra-
venous creatures seldom appear bnt in the ni ht; and
in the second place, we found the people terrih y fright-
ened, especially the women. The man that had the
lance or dart dld not fly from them, but the rest did;
however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the
Negroes, but lunged themselves into the sea, and swam
about. as if they had come for their diversion: at last,
one of them began to come nearer our boat than I at
first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly within
my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head:
immediately be sunk down into the water, but rose tn-
stantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was strug-
gling for life, and so indeed he was: he immediately
made to the shore; but between the wound, which was
his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died

just before he reached the shore. .
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these

poor creatures at the noise and tire of my gun; some
ofthem were even ready to die for fear, and fell down
as dead with the very terror; but when they saw the
creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart and
came to the shore. and began to search for the creature.
I found him by his blood staining the water; and by the
help ofa rope, which I slung round him, and gave the
Negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to
an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed
him with.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire
and the noise ofthe gun, swam on shore, and ran up di-
rectly to the mountains from whence they came; nor
could I, at that distance, know what it was. I found
quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this
creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a fa-
vour from me; which, when I made signs to them that
they might take him, they were very thankful for. Im--
mediately they fell to work with him; and though they
had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily,
than we could have done with a knife. They offered
me some ofthe tlesh, which I declined, making as if I
would give it them, but made signs for the skin, which
they gave tne very freely, and brought me a great deal
more of their provisions, which, though I did not un-
derstand, yet Iaecepted. I then made signs to them
for some water, and held out one of my jars to them,
turning it bottom upwards, to show that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it tilled. They called imme-
diately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and
burned, as I suppose, in the sun; this they set down to
me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars,
and filled them all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men. '
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes,--I
made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run out
a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four
or five leagues before me; and the sea being very calm,
I kept a large ofling, to make this point. At length,
doubling the oint, at about two leagues from the land,
I saw plainly and on the other side, to seaward: then I
concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was
the Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called, from
thence, Cape de Verd islands. However, they were at
a great distance, and I could not well tell what I had
best to do; for if I should be taken with a gale of wind,
I might neither reach one nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm; when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, Master,
master, a ship with a sail! and the foolish boy was
frightened out of his wits, thinking it must needs be
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach. I
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only
the ship, but what she was, viz. that it was a Portuguese
ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast oqui-
nea, for Negroes. But, when I observed the course she
steered, I was soon convinced they were bound some

other way, and did not design to come any nearer to the
shore: upon which I stretched out to sea as much as I
could, resolving to Speak with them, if possible.

\'Vith all the sail I could make, I found I should not
be able to come in their way, but that they would be
gone by before I could make any signal to them: but
after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair,
they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective
glasses, and that it was some EurOpean boat, which,
they supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost;
so they shortened sail, to let me come up. I was en-
couraged with this, and as I had my patron's ensign on
board, I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of dis-
tress, and fined a gun, both which they saw; for they
told me they saw the smoke, though they did not hear
the gun. Upon these signals, they very kindly brought
to, and lay by for me; and in about three hours time I
came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none ofthem; but, at
last, a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me,
and I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman,
that I had made m escape out of slavery from the
Moors, at Sallee: tiey then bade me come on board,
and very kindly took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressiblejoy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable, and almost hopeless condition as l
was in; and I immediately offered all I had to the cap-
tain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he
generously told me, he would take nothing from me,
but that all I had should be delivered safe to me, when
I came to the Brazils. " For," says he. " I have saved
your life on no other terms than I would be glad to he
saved myself; and it may, one time or other, be my lot
to be taken up in the same condition. Besides," con-
tinued he, " when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a
way from your own country, if I should take from you
what you have, you will be starved there, and then I
only take away that life I have given. No, no, Seignior
Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), says he; " I will carry
you thither in charity, and these things will help to
buy. your subsistence there, and your passage home
a am.

gAs he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just
in the performance, to a tittle ; for be ordered the sea-
men, that none should ofi'er to touch any thing I had:
then he took every thing into his own possession, and
gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them, even so much as my three earthern jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use; and asked me what I would have for it? I told
him, he had been so generous to me in every thing, that

I could not offer to make any price of the boat, but left
it entirely to him: 11 on which, he told me he would
give me a note of ban to pay me eighty pieces of eight
for it at Brazil ; and when it came there, if any one of-
fered to give more, he would make it up. He offered
me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take; not that I was not Willing to
let the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the
poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in
procuring my own. However, when I let him know my
reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this me-
dium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten-years, if he turned Christian: upon this,

and Xury saying he was willing to go to hint, I let the
captain have him.

W e had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints'
Bay, in about twenty-two da '8 after. And now I was
once more delivered from t e most miserable of all
conditions of life; and what to do next with myselfl
was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember : he would take nothing of me

for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and forty for the lion's skin which I had tn my

boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship to be
punctually delivered to me; and what I was willing to
sell he bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two
of m guns, and a piece ofthe lump of bees-wax,--for
I ha made candles ofthe rest: in a word, I made about
two hundred and twenty pieces of eight ofall my cargo;
and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here before I was recommended
to the house of a good honest man, like himself, who
had an ingeino, as they call it (that is, a plantation and
a sugar house). I lived with him some time, and ac-
quainted m self, by that means, with the manner of
planting an making of sugar: and seeing how well the
planters lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I re-
solved, ifl could get a licence to settle there, I would
turn planter among them: endeavouring in the mean
time, to find out some way to get my money, which I
had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased
as much land that was uncured as my money would
reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and settle-
ment; such a one as might be suitable to the stock which
I proposed to myselfto receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of English parents, whose name was \Vells, and in much
such circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour,
because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well
as his; and we rather planted for food than any thing
else, for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and our land began to come into order; so that
the third year we planted some tobacco, and made each
of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes
in the year to come: but we both wanted help; and
now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on:
I had got into an employment quite remote to my genius,
and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for
which I forsook my father's house, and broke through
all his good advice: nay, l was coming into the very
middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my
father advised me to before; and which, if I resolved
to go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and
never have fatigued myselfin the world, as I had done:
and I used often to say to myself, I could have done
this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone
five thousand miles off to do it among strangers and sa-
vages in a wilderness, and at such a distance, as never

to hear from any part of the world that had the least
knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with,
but now and then this neighbour; no work to be done.
but by the labour of my hands: and I used to say, I
lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate
island, that had nobody there but himself. But how
just has it been! and how should all men reflect, that
when they compare their present conditions with others
that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity by0F ROBINSON 0110502. 33

their experience: I say, how just has it been, that the
truly solitary life] reflected on, in an island of mere
desolation, should be my lot, who had so often unjustly
compared it with the life which I then led, in which,
had I continued, I had in all probability, been exceed--
ing pros;)erous and rich.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back ;
for the ship remained there, in providing his lading,
and preparing for his voyage, near three months ; when,
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in
London, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice:
" Seignior lnglese," says he, for so he always called
me, " ifyou will give me letters, and a procuration here
in form to me, with orders to the person who has your
money in London, to send your etfects to Lisbon, to
such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are
proper for this country, I will bring you the produce of
them, God willing, at my return; but, since human af-
fairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders for but one hundred pounds ster-
ling, which, you say, is half your stock, and let the ba-
zard be run for the first, so that if it come safe, you may
order the rest the same way; and, if it miscarry, you
may have the other half to have recourse to for your
supply."

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly,
that I could not but be convinced it was the best course
I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the
gentlewoman with whom I left my money, and a procu-
ration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired me.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of
all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had
met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of
his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with
all other necessary directions for my supply ; and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by
some ofthe English merchants there, to send over, not
the order only, but a full account ofmy story to a mer-
chant at London, who represented it etfectually to her:
whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out

VOL. I. Dn

01- LIFE AND ADVENTI'RT'S

of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very'
handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods. such as the captain had wrote for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them
all safe to me at the Brazils: among which, without my
direction: (for I was too young in my business to think
ot'them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools,
iron work, and utensils, necessary for my plantation,
and which were of great use to me.

"When this cargo arrived. I thought my fortune made.
for I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the captain. had laid out the five pounds,
which my friend had sent him as a present for himself.
to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond
for six years" service. and would not accept ol'any con-
sideration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all: but my goods being all English
manufacture, such as cloths, stufl's, baize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so
that I might say, I had more than four times the value
of my first cargo, and was now intinitely beyond my
poor neighbour, I mean in the. advancement of my plan-
tation: for the first thing I did, I bought me a Negro
slave, and an European servant also; I mean another,
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our adversity, so was it with me. I went on
the next year with great success in my plantation: I
raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own ground,
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my
neighbours; and these tifty rolls, being each of above
a hundred weight, were well cured, and laid by against
the return ot'the tleet t'rom Lisbon: and now, increasing
in business and in wealth, my head began to be full of
projects and undertakings beyond my reach; such as
are, indeed, often the ruin ofthe best beads in business.
Had I continued in the slationI was now in, I had room
for all the happy thingsto have yet befallen me, for which
my father so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired
life, and which he had so sensibly described the middle
station of life to be full of: but other things attended
me, and I was still to be the wilful agent ofall my own
miseries; and particularly, to increase mv fault, and
double the reflections upon myself, which in my future
sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these mis-

carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination of wandering about,
and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of life,
which nature and providence concurred to present one
with, and to make my duty.

Asl had once done thus in breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulf of human misery that
ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with
life. and a state of health in the world.

To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of
this part of my story :--You may suppose, that having
now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper Very well upon my planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow planters, as well as among the merchants at St.
Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast oquinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase on the coast for trifles--such as
heads. toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, hits of glass, and
the like--not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants'
teeth, 8w. but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils,
in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but eSpecially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes; which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and en-
grossed from the public; so that few Negroes were

bought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three ofthem came to me the next
morning, and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them ofthe last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had

a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had
all plantations as well as l, and were straitened for no-
thing so mueh as servants; that as it was a trade that
could not be carried on, because they could not pub-
licly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they
desired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes
on shore privately, and divide them among their own
plantations: and, in a word, the question was, whether
I Would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes,
without providing any part ot'the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which wasin a fair
way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good
' stock u on it. But for me, that was thus entered and
establis red, and had nothing to do but go on as 1 had
begun, for three or four years more, and to have sent
for the other hundred rounds from England; and who,
in that time, with that ittle addition, could scarce have
failed of being worth three or four thousand- pounds
sterling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such
a voyage was the most preposterous thing that a man,
in such circumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost upon me. In a word, [told them I would go with
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and would dispOse of it to
such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they all
engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants

to do so: and I made a formal will, disposing of my
plantation and effects, in case of my death; making the
captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before,
my universal heir; but obliging him to dis seof'my
cll'ects as I had directed in my will; one Ialf of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped

to England. A
in short, I took all possible caution to preserve my

eli'ects, and to keep up my plantation: had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own interest,
and have made a judgment of what I ought to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone

away from so prOSperous an undertaking, leavnng all
the probable news of a thnvmg circumstance, and

gone a voyage to sea, attended with all its common ha-
zards, to say nothing of the reasons 1 had to expect par-
ticular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates

of my fancy rather than my reason: and accordingly,-
the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and!

all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour again, the 1st
of September, 1659, being the same da eight years that
I went from my father and mother at zlull, in order to
act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own

interest. ' .
Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons

burden, carried six guns, and fourteen men, besides the
master, his bo , and myself; we had on board no large
cargo of good's, except of such toys as were lit for our
trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass,
shells, and odd tritlcs, especially little looking-glasses,
knives, scissars, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with design
to stretch over for the African coast. When they came
to about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude,
which, it seems, was the manner of their course in those
days, we had very good weather, only excessive hot all
the way upon our own coast, till we came to the height
of Cape St. Augustine; from whence, keeping farther
oll' at see, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we
were bound for the isle of Fernando de Noronha, hold-
ing our course N. E. by N. and leaving those isles on
the east. In this course we passed the Line in about
twelve days' time, and were, by our last observation, in
7 degrees 2'2 minutes northern latitude, when a violent
tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our know-
ledge: it began from the south-east, came about to the
north-west, and then settled in the north-east; frmn
whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we could do nothing but drive, and, send-
ding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate
and the fury of the winds directed; and, during these
twelve days, 1 need not say that I expected every day
to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship
expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and one
man and a boy washed overboard. About the twelfth
day, the weather abating a little, the master made an
observation as well as he could, and found that he was
in about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22
degrees of longitude dill'ercnce, west from Cape St. Au-
gustine; so that be found he was got upon the coast of
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazons, toward that of the river Oroonoqne, com-
monly called the. Great River; and began to consult
with me what course he should take, for the ship v'as
leaky and very much disabled, and he was for going
directly back to the coast of Brazil.

1 Was positively against that; and locking over the
charts of the seacoast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to, till we came within the circle of the Carib-
bee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for
Barbadoes; which by keeping all to sea, to avoid the
indraft of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail ; where-
as we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast
of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
ourselves.
\Vith this design, we changed our course, and steer-
ed away N. \V. by \V. in order to reach some of our

English islands, where I hoped for relief: but our
voyage was otherwise determined; for, being in the
latitude of 1'2 degrees 18 minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetu-
osity westward, and drove us so out of the very way of
all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved,
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being de-
voured by savages, than ever returning to our own
country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of our men early in the morning cried out, Land! and
we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in
hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, but
the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we should all have
perished immediately; and we were immediately driven
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam
and spray ot'the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
driven, whether an island or the main, whether inha-
bited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was
still great, though rather less than at first, we could not
so much as hope to have the ship held many minutes,
without breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kind
of miracle, should immediately turn about. In a word,
we sat looking upon one another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as
preparing for another world ; for there was little or no-
thing more for us to do in this: that which was our
present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that
contrary to our expectation, the ship did not break yet,
and that the master said the wind began to abate.

New, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to ex ect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition in eed, and had nothing
to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we
could. "'0 had a boat at our stern just before the
storm. but she was first staved by dashing against the
ship's rudder, aml, in the next place, she broke away,
and either sunk or was driven oil to sea; so there was
no hope from her: we had another boat on board, but
how to get her oll' into the sea was a doubtful thing:
however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied
the ship would break in pieces every minute, and some
told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest ot' the men, they
got her llung over the ship's side; and getting all into
her, let her go, and committed ourselves, being eleven
in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea: for
though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea
went'dreadl'nl high upon the shore, and might be well
called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we
all saw plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat
could not live, and that we should be inevitably drown-
ed. As to making sail, we had none; nor, if we had,
could we have done any thing with it; so we worked
at the ear towards the land, though with heavy hearts,
like men going to execution; for we all knew that
when the boat came nearer to the shore, she would be
dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea.
However, we connnitted our souls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us towards the
shore, we hastened our destruction with our own hands,
pulling as well as we could towards land.

\Vhat the shore w as--whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal--we knew' not ; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow ot expectation was,
if we might happen into some bay or golf, or the mouth
of some riVer, where by great chance we might have
run our boat in, or got under the lee ot'the land, and
perhaps made smooth water. But there was nothing of
this appeared; and as we made nearer and nearer the
shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league

and a half, as we reckoned it, a ragingr wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us ex-
pect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with such
a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating
us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us
not time hardly to say, " O God I" for we were all
swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which

I felt when I sunk into the water; for though I swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves
so as to draw my breath, till that wave having driven
me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the
shore, and having spent itself, went back. and left me
upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the water
I took in. I had so mueh presence of mind, as well as
breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured
to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but
I soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw
the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy, \vbieh I had no means or strength
to contend with: my business was to hold my breath,
and raise myselfupon the water, if I could ; and so, by
swimming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself
towards the shore, if possible; my greatest concern
now being, that the wave, as it would carry me a great
way towards the shore when it eame on, might not
carry me back again with it when it gave back towards
the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at
onee twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body; and I
eonld feel myself carried with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but I
held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still for-
ward with all my might. I was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so,
to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though
it was not two seconds oftime that I could keep myself -
50. yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath, and new
courage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not so long but! held it out; and finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, lstruek _
forward against the return of the waves. and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to
recover breath, and till the water went frotn me, and
then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I
had further towards the shore. But neither would
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came
pouring in after me again ; and twiee more I was lifted
up by the waves and carried forwards as before, the
shore being very flat.

The. last time of these two bad well nigh been fatal
to me; for the sea having hurried me along, as before,
lauded me, or rather dashed me against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force, that it left me senseless,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it
were, quite out of my body ; and had it returned again
immediately, I must haVe been strangled in the water:
but I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeingr I should again be covered with water, I re-
solved to hold fast by a pieee of the rock, and so to hold
my breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now
as the waves were not so high as the first. being nearer
laml, I held my hold till the wave abated, and then
fetched another run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me. yet
did not so swallow me up as to carr me away; and the
next run 1 took. I got to the main land ; where, to my
great comfort, I clambered upthe cliffs of the shore,
and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and
quite out ofthe reach ofthe water.

1 was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved, in a
case wherein there were, some minutes before, scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to ex-
press, to the life, what the ecstasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as 1 may say, out of
the grave: and I did not wonder now at the custom,
viz. that when a malefactor, who has the halter about
his neck, is tied up, and just going .to be turned oll',
and has a reprieve brought to him; 1 say, I do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him
blood that very moment they tell him ofit, that the sur-

prise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart,
and overwhelm hnn. '

For sudden joys. like grit-ts. confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the
contemplation of my deliverance; making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe; reflect-
ing upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as
for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sign of
them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not follows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel--~when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big i could hardly
see it, it lay so far olf--and considered, Lord! how
was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to see
what kind ofa place I was in, and what was next to be
done; and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in
a word, I had a dreadful deliverance: fort was wet,
had no clothes to shifl me, nor any thing either to eat
or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect
before me, butthat of perishing with hunger, or being
devoured by wild beasts: and that which was particu-
larly atllicting to me was. that I had no weapon, either
to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself against any other creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing
about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little to-
bacco in a box. This was all my provision, and this
threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, that, for a
while I ran about like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in
that country, seeing at night they always come abroad
for their prey.

. All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that
tune, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorny--which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night--and consider the next day what death
I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I
"allied about a furlong from the shore, to see if] could
find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great.
joy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco into
my mouth to prey-cat hunger, I went to the tree, and
getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as
that ifl should fall asleep,I might not fall: and having
cut me a short stick, like. a trnneheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging: and Inning been excessively fa-
tigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably, as, I
believe, few could have done in my condition; and
found myselfthe most refreshed with it that I think I
ever was'on such an occasion.

\Vhen I waked it u as broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted otl' in the night from the sand
where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, aml was dri-
ven u ) almost asifar as the rock which I at first men-
tioned, where I had been so bruised by the wares
dashing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore wherel was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that at.
least I might save some necessary things for my use.

\thn I cann- down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again, and the Iirst thingl found
was the boat ; which lay, as the wind and the sea had
tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore
to have got to her ; but found a neck or inlet of water
between me and the boat, which was about halfa mile
broad _; so I came back for the present, being more in-
tent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to Iind
something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbcd so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile ofthe ship: and here I found a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so mi-
serable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort and
company, as] now was. This fort-ed tears from my
eyes again: but as there was little relief in that. I re-
solved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled oli'
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
took the water; but when I came to the ship, my dif--
Iicnlty was still greater to know how to get on board ;
for as she lay aground. and high out ofthe water. there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small
piece ot'a rope, WIIIt'II I wondered I did not see at first,
tang down by the fore ehaius so low, as that with great
dillieulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope
got into the foreeastle of the ship. More I found that

the ship was hulged, and had a great deal of water in
her hold ; but that she lay so on the side of a hank of
hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up
upon the bank, and her head low, almost to the water.
By this means all her quarter was free. and all that was
in that part was dry; for you may he sure my Iirst
Work was to search and to see what was spoiled and
what was free: and lirst, I lbund that all the ship's
provisions were dry and untouched by the water; and,

eing very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room, and tilled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as
I went about other things, for I had no time to lose.
I also found some rutn in the great cabin, of which I
took a large drain, and which I had indeed need
enough of, to spirit me for what was before me. New
I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be very necessary

to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not

to be had, and this extremity roused my application:
we had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the ship;
I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as many

overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying
every one with a rope that they might not drive away.
"' hen this was done, I went down the ship's rude. and

pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast togetherto LIFE AM) anvtzs'rvmzs

at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them crossways, I found I could walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too light: so I went to work, and With
the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into thrce
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of
labour and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself
with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what
I should have been able to have done upon another
occasion.

Ny raft was now strong enough to bear any reason-
able weight. My next care was what to load it with.
and how to preserve what I laid upon it frolu the surf
ofthe sea; but I was not long considering this. I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get.
and having considered well what I most wanted, I got
three of the seamen's chests. which I had broken Open
and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft;
these I lillcd with provisions, viz. bread. rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five. pieces of dried goats' tlcsh (which
we lived much upon), and a little remainder of Euro-
pcan corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which
wehad brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed.
There had been some barley and wheat together, but,
to my great disappointment, I found afterwards that
the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I
found several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper.
in which were some cordial waters; and, in all, about .
five or six gallons of rack. These 1 stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chests.
nor any room for them. \Vhile l was doing this, I
found the tide began to tlow, though very calm ; and
I had the mortilication to see my coat, shirt, and waist-
coat, which 1 had left on shore, upon the sand, swim
away; as for my brceehes. which were only linen, and
Open knee'd, I swam on board in them, and my stock-
ings. However, this put me upon rnnnnaging for
clothes, of which I fouml enough, but took no more
than I wanted for present use, for I had other things
which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore: and it was after long searching that l
found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship
lading of gold would have been at that time. I got it
down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained. '

My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowlingpieees in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these I seemed first, with some
powder horns and a small bag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of pow-
der in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had
stowed them; but with much search I found them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thought myself iretty well freighted, and began to
think how I shou d get to shore with them, having
neither sail. oar, nor rudder; and the least capfull of
wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: 1st, A smooth, calm
sea: 2dly. The tide rising, and setting in to the shore:
3dly, \Vhat little wind there was blew me towards the
land. And thus, having found two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and besidesthe tools which
were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a ham-
mer; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found
it drive a little distant from the place where I had
landed before; by which I perceived that there was
some indraft of the water, and consequently I hoped to
find some creek or river there, which I might make
use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me
a little opening ofthe land, and I found a strong current
ofthe tide set into it; so I guided my raft, as well as
I could, to get into the middle of the stream. But
here! had like to have suffered a second shipwreck,
which, if I had, I think verily would have broken my
heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran
aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being
aground at the other end, it wanted but a little that all
my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was
afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did mv utmost,
by setting my hack aIrainst the chests, to kee ep them III
their places, but could not thrust of} the ralt III'i h all
my strength, neither Ilurst l stir lrIIIn the posture I II as
in, but holding up the chests Will] all my might, I stood
in that manner near half an hour, in which time the
rising of the water brought me a little more upon a le-
vcl; and a little after, the water still rising, lll_\' raft
floated again, and I thrust her otl' with the oar I had
into the channel, and then driving up higher, lat length
found InI'sell'in the mouth ofa little river, with land (III
both sides, and a strong current or tide running n I. I
looked IIII both sides for a proper place to get to show,
for l was not willing to be driven too high up the river;
hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and tlIeIefoIe re-
solIed to place IIIIselt as new the coast as l eonld.

At length l spied a little coIe on the Iight show of
the CIeelI, to IIlIiI-lz, IIilh gIcat pain and IliI'IienltI', l
guided InI' ralt, and at last got so near, as that I't'aclllllg
gIounIl IIitlI III._I oar, I could thrust lIIII IliII-ctlI' III , hut
here I had like to haIe dipped all IIII cargo into the
sea again; lor that shore IIing prettI steep, that is to
saI, sloping, there II as IIII place to land but II heI II one
end (It nII tlIIat, if it Ian IIII show, would lie so high,
and the tf'lllt'l sink loIIer, as helore, that it would en-
danger IIII came again. All that I could do "as to
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the ralt
IIith IIII oar like an anchor, to hold the side ol it fast to
the shoie, near a tlat piece ot ground, II hich I expected
the water II oulIl tlow over; and so it did. As soon as I
found IvatIII enough, tor my ralt IlIew about a foot ot
IIater, I thrust her upon that llat piece ol "'IUUIHI, and
there fastened or InooIeIl th, III sticking my two
hIokeII oars into the ground; one on one side, near one
end, and one IIII the other side, near the other end:
and thus I laI till the "aim cblch aII'aI', and left my
ralt and all IIII can go sale on show. .

My next work "as to flew the country, and seek a
prIIpIII place loI IIII habitation, and IIheI'II to slow my

goods; to secnIe the III tIonI IIhateI eI IIIiIIht happen.
\\ here I was, II et knew not: whether on the continent,
or on an island 5 whether InlIahIted, or not Inhabxted;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill, not above a mile from me. which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out
one of the l'owlingpieces, and one of the pistols, and a
horn of powder; and thus armed, l traveled for dis-
covery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had
with great labour and dillicnlty got up to the tap, I saw
my fate, to my great afllietion, viz. that l was in an
island, environed every way with the sea, no land to be
seen, except some rocks, which lay a great way oli',
and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.

1 found also that the island I was in was barren, and,
as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by
wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither,
when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food,
and what not. At my coming back, 1 shot at a great
bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a
great wood. I beliCVe it wasthe first gun that had been
fired there since the creation of the world: I had no
sooner tired, but from all the parts of the. wood there
arose an innmnerable number of l'owls, of many sorts,
making a confused screaming and crying, every one ac-
cording to his usual note; but not one of them of an
kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I tool:
it to be a kind ofa hawk, its colour and beak resembling
it, but had no talons or claws more than common. Its
tlesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, l'came hack to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo onshore, which
took me up the rest ofthat day: what to .do with my-
Self at night, I knew not, nor indeed where to rest: for
l was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing
but some wild beast might devour me; though, as l
afterwards found, there was really no need for those
fears.

However, as well as] could, I barricadoed myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought on
shore, and made a kind ofahut for that night's lodging.

As for food, 1 yet saw not which way to supply myself,
VOL. I. n
except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares,
run out of the wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great
many things out ofthc ship, which would be useful to
me, and particularly some ofthe rigging and sails, and
such otherthings as might come to land ; and I resolved
to make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible.
And as I knew that the first storm that blew must ne-
cessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all
other things apart, till I got every thing out of the ship
that I could get. Then I called a council, that is to
say, in my thoughts, whether 1 should take back the
raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to
go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so,
only that l stripped before I Went from my hut ; having
nothing on but a chequered shirt, 8 pair of linen drawers,
and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft: and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hand,
but yetl brought away several things very useful to
me: as first, in the carpenter's stores, 1 found tWo or
three bags of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a do-
zen or two of hatchets; and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grindstoue. All these I secured, together
with several things belonging to the. gunner; particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket
bullets, seven muskets, and another fowlingpicce, with
some small quantity of powder more; a large bagf'ull of
small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead ; but this last
was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over the
ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that
I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and
some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft,
and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.

I was under some apprehensions, during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be de-
\(mred on shore: but when I came back, I found no
sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a wild
cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards0F Romnsos causoa. 51

it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. She
sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in
my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me.
I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not under-
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of
biscuit, though by the way, I was not very free of it,
for my store was not great: however, I spared her a
bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it, and ate it,
and looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked her,
and could spare no more: so she marched oll'.

Having got my second cargo on shore--though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks--
I went to work to make me a little tent, with the sail,
and some poles, which I cut for that purpose; and into
this tent I brought every thing that I knew would spoil
either with rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests
and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it
from any sudden attempt either from man or beast.

\Vhen I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set
up on end without; and spreading one ofthe beds upon-
the ground, laying my two pistolsjust at my head, and
my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time,
and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary
and heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and
bad laboured very hard all day. as well to fetch all those
things from the ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was not sa-
tislied still: for while the ship sat upright in that pos--
ture, I thought I ought to get every thing out of her
that I could: so every day, at low water, I went on
board, and brought away something or other; but par-
ticularly the third time I went, I brought away as much
of the rigging as I could. as also all the small ropes and
rope-twine] could get, with a piece of spare canvass,
which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the
barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away
all the sails, first and last; only that I was fain to cut
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could 5
for they were no more useful to be sails, but as mere
canvass only.

But that which comforted me still more, was, that
last of all, after I had made live or six such voyages as
these. and thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with; I say, after
all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and three
large. runlets of rum or spirits, and a box ol'sugar, and
a barrel ot'tine tlour; this was surprising to me, because
I had given over expecting any more provisions, except
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the
bogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the sails, which 1 cut out; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.

The next day 1 made another voyage; and now, hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to
hand out, I began with the cables, am cutting the great
cable into pieces such as I could move, 1 got two cables
and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work 1 could
get, and having cut down the spritsail-yaid and the mic
zen-yard, and every thing I could, to make a large tall,
I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away ;
but my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft
was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was en-
tered the little cove where I had landed the rest of my
goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into
the water; as for myself, it was no great harm, for l
was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was a great
part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected
would have been of great use to me: however,when
the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite la-
bour; for l was tain to dip for it into the water, a work
which fatigued me very much. After this I went every
day on board, and brought away what I could get.

I had been new thirteen days ashore. and had been
eleven times on board the ship; in which time lhad
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable to bring; though I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I should have brought away
the whole ship, piece by piece 3 but preparing the
twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind began to
rise: however, at low water I went on board ; and

though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so ell'ec-
tnally as that nothing could be found, yet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found
two or three razors, and one pair of large seissars, with
some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in ano-
ther, I found about thirty-six pounds value in money.
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver.

Ismiled to myself at the sight of this money: "0,
drug!" said I, aloud, " what art then good for? Thou
art not worth to me, no, not the taking oll'lhe ground ;
one of those knives is worth all this heap: I have no
manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou art,
and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not
worth saving." However, upon second thoughts, I
took it away; and wrapping all this in a piece of cau~
vass, I began to think of making another raft; but
while I was preparing this, I found the sky overcast,
and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour
it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently oc-
curred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a
raft, with the wind off shore; and that it was my busi-
ness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all.
Accordingly I let myselfdown into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay between the ship and the
sands, and even that with diiliculty enough, partly with
the weight ofthe things I had about me, and partly the
roughness of the water; for the wind rose very hastily,
and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay,
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very
hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked
out, behold, no more ship was to be seen! I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory
reflection, viz. that I had lost no time, and abated no
diligence, to get every thing out of her that could be
useful to me, and that, indeed, there was little left in

her that I was able to bring away, if I had had more
time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
any thing out of her, except what might drive on shore
from her wreck ; as. indeed, divers pieces of her after-
wards did ; but those things were of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about so-
curiug myself against either savages, if any should ap-
pear, or wild beasts, if any Were in the island; and I
had many thoughts of the method how to do this, and
what kind ofdwelling to make, whether I should make
me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth : and in
short, I resolved upon both; the manner and descrip-
tion of which it may not be improper to give an ac-
count of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particuiariy because it was upon a low, moorisb,
ground, near the sea, and I believed it would not be
wholesome; and more particularly because there was
no fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I
found would be proper for me: 1st, Health and fresh
water, I just now mentioned: 2dly, Shelter from the
heat ofthe sun: 3dly, Security from ravenous creatures,
whether men or beasts: 4thly, A view to the sea, that
if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing
to banish all my expectation yet.

In search for a place pr0per for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as a house side, so that nothing
could come down upon me from the top. On the side
ofthis rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way
in, like the entrance or door ot',,a cave; but there was
not really any cave, or way intouthe rock at all.

On the flat ofthe green,just before this hollow place,
I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
a hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door; and, at the end ofit, de-
scended irregularly every way down intothe low ground
by the seaside. It was on the N.N.\V. side of the bill;
so that it was sheltered from the beat every day, till it
came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which, in
those countries, is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending.

In this ltalfeircle l pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm
like piles, the biggest end being out of the ground
about five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top.

The two rows did not stand above six inches from one
another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows, one upon another, within
the circle between these two rows of stakes, up to the
top, placing other stakes in the inside leaning against
them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a
post; and this fence was so strong that neither man nor
beast could get into it or over it. This cost me a great
deal oftime and labour, eSpecially to cut the piles in

the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into
the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I
was completely fenced in and fortified, asl thought,
from all the world, and conse uently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I coul not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need ofall this

caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger
from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above; and
I made a large tent, which, to preserve me from the
rains that in one part of the year are very violent there,
I made double, viz. one smaller tent within, and one

larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a
large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
I had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate of
the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus en-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
now I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I
said, by a short ladder.

\Vheu I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I
dug down out through my tent, I laid them up within
my fence in the nature ofa terrace, so that it raised the
ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made
me a care,just behind my tent, which served me like a
cellar to my house. It cost me much labour and many
days, before all these things were brought to perfection;
and therefore I must go back to some other things
which took up some of my thoughts. At the same time
it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting
up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of light-
niug happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder,
as is naturally the effect of it. I was not so much sur-
priSed with the lightning, as I was with a thought,
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: 0 my powder! My very heart sunk within me
when I thought, that at one blast, all my powder might
be destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. I
was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder took tire, I had never known

who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my build-
ing and fortifying, and applied myselfto make bags and
boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever might
come, it might not all take fire at once; and to keep it
so apart, that it should not be possible to make one part
fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight ;
and I think my powder, which in all was about 240lb.
weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels.

As to the barrel that had been wet,l did not apprehend
any danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave,
which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I
bid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no
wet. might come to it, marking very carefully where I
laid it.

in the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out at least once every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself, as to see if I could kill any thing lit for
food ; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went out, I
presently ('liscovered that there were goats upon the
island, which was a great satisfaction to Inc ; but then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at
them: but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting
but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap-
pened ; for after I had found their haunts a little, I laid
wait in this manner for them: I observed, if they saw
me in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks,
they would run away as in a terrible fright; but if they
were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded,
that by the position of their optics, their sight was so
directed downward, that they did not readily see ob-
jects that were above them: so, afterwards, I took this
method--I always climbed the racks first, to get above

 
 
 

/
M)

"1W 4W "

Want/arias, .

them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first
shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat,
which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily ; but when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and took her
up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one
with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam,
and took the kid in my arms, aml carried it over my
pale, in hOpes to have bred it up tame; but it would
not eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with tlesh a great while, for I
ate sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread
especially), as lunch as possibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it abso-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a lire in,
and fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as also how 1
enlarged my care, and what conveniences I made, I
shall give a full account of in its proper place: but I
must first give some little account of myself. and of my
thoughts about living, which, it may well be supposed,
were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition ; for as I was
not cast away upon that island without being driven, as
is said, by a violent storm, quite out of the course of
our intended voyage ; and a great way, viz. some hun-
dreds of leagues, out ofthe ordinary course of the trade
of mankind, I had great reason to consider it as a deter-
mination of Heaven, that in this desolate place. and in
this desolate manner, 1 should end my life. The tears
would run plentifully down my face when I made these
relleetions; and sometimes I would expostulate with
myself why Providence should thus completely ruin its
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable; so
abandoned without help, so entirely depressed, that it
could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life.

But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me : and particu-
larly, one day, walking with my gun in my hand, by the
seaside, I was very pensive upon the subject of my pre-
sent condition, when reason, as it were, expostulated
with me the other way, thus: " \Vell, you are in a de-
solate condition, it is true; but, pray remember, where
are the rest of you? Did not you come eleven of you
into the boat? W'herc are the ten? \Vhy were not
they saved, and you lost? \Vhy were you singled out?
Is it better to be here or there?" And then I pointed
to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the
good that is in them, and with what worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistence, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened (which was a hundred
thousand to one), that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck, and was driven so near to the
shore, that I had time to get all these things out of her:
what would have been my case, if I had been to have
lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore,
without necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and
procure them! " Particularly, said I aloud (though
to myself), what should I have done without a gun,
without ammunition, without any tools to make any
thing, or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a
tent, or any manner of covering ?" and that now I had
all these to a sullicient quantity, and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner as to live without
my gun, when my ammunition was spent : so that I had
a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as
long as I lived; for I considered, from the beginning,
how I should provide for the accidents that might hap-
pen, and for the time that was to come, not only after
my ammunition should be spent, but even after my
health or strength should decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my am-
munition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my pow-
der being blown up y lightning; and this made the
thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened and
thundered, as 1 observed just now.

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of
a scene of silent life, such, )erhaps, as was never heard
ofin the world before, I sha I take it from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my account,
the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above
said, I first set foot upon this horrid island ; when the
sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost
just over my head : for I reckoned myself, by observa-
tion, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes
north of the Line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning
of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and should
even forget the sabbath days from the working days:
but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
post, in capital letters; and making it into a great
cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed. viz.
" I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."
Upon the sides of this square post. I cut every day a
notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the month
as long again as that long one: and thus I kept my
calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning
oftime.

But it happened, that among the many things which I
brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which.
as above mentioned. I made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I
found, some time after, in rummaging the chests; as,
in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in
the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping;
three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation ; all
which I huddled together, whether I might want them
or no: also I found three very good bibles, which came
to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books
also, and, among them, two or three popish prayer
books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the
ship a dog, and two cats, of whose eminent history I
may have occasion to say something, in its place: for I
carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore to
me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo,
and was a trusty servant to me for many years: I wanted
nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that
he could make up to me, I out wanted to have him
talk to me, but that would not 0. As I observed be-
fore, I found pens, ink, and paper, and I husbanded
them to the utmost; and I shall show that while my ink

lasted, I kept things very exact, but after that was gone
I could not; for I could not make any ink, by any
means that I could devise. '

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together;.and
of these, this of ink was one; as also a spade, pick-
axe, and shovel. to dig or remove the earth; needles,
pins, and thread: as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much difliculty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on hea-
vily ; and it was near a whole year before I had entirely
finished my little pale, or surrounded my habitation.
'I'he piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I could
well lil't, were a long time in cutting and preparing in
the woods, and more, by far, in bringing home ; so that
I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing
home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it
into the ground; for which urpose, I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at ast bcthought mvself of
one of the iron crows; which, however. though I found
it, yet it made driving these posts or piles very labori-
ous and tedious work. But what need I to have been
concerned at the tedionsness of any thing I had to do,
seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had Ian
other employment, it'that had been over, at least that
could foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for
food ; which I did, more or less, every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and
the circumstance I "as reduced to; and I drew up the
state of my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them
to any that were to come after me (for I was like to
have but few heirs), as to deliver my thoughts from
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind: and
as my reason began now to master my despondency, I
began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set
the good against the evil, that I might have something
to distinguish my case from worse; and I stated very
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I en-
joyed against the miseries I suffered, thus:

EVIL. Goon.

I am cast upon a horri- But I am alive; and .not
hle, desolate island, void drowned, as all my ship's
of all hope of recovery. company were.63

I am singled out and se-
parated, as it were, from
all the world, to be miser-
able.

I am divided from man-
lttml, a solitaire; one ha-
nishcd from human society.

I have no clothes to co-
ver me.

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

But I am singled out too
from all the ship's crew, to
be spared from death ; and
he that miraculously saved
me from death can deliver
me from this condition.

But I am not starved,
and perishiug in a barren
plaee, all'ording no suste-
Ililllt't'.

But I am in a hot eli-
where, it' I

had

mate,
clothes, I could hardly
wear them.

But I am east on an
island where I see no wild
beast to hurt me, as I saw
on the euast ol'Al'riea: and
what if! had been ship-
wrecked there?

But (lod wonderfully
sent the ship in near enough
to the shore, that I have
got out so many necessary
things as will either sepply
my \\ ants, or enable me to
supply my sell, even as long
as I live.

I am without any de-
fence. or means to resist
any violence of man or
lwnsl.

l have no soul to speak
to, or relieve ItIL'.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scaree any condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or some-
thing positive, to be thankful for in it: aml let this
stand as a direction, from the experience of the most
miserable of all conditions in this worldhthat we may
always liud in it something." to comfort ourselves from.
and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
credit side of the account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and given over looking out to sea, to see it'
I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things, I
began to apply myself to aeeonnnodate my way ol'liviug,
and to make things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side ofa rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables ; but I might now rather call it
a wall. for I raised a kind of wall against it of turfs,
about two feet thick on the outside: and after some
time (I think it was a year and a half), I raised raliers
from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it
with boughs ot'trees, and such things as I could get, to
keep out the rain ; which I found, at some times of the
year, very violent. '

l have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made he-
hind me. But I must observe, too, that at first this was
a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order,
so they took up all my place; I had no room to turn
myself; so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work
tarther into the earth ', for it was a loose, sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it:
and when I found I vas pretty safe as to the beasts of
prey, I worked sideways. to the right hand, into the
rock, and then turning to the right again, worked 1 uite
out, and made me a door to come out in the outsi e of

my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were,

a back way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave
me room to stow my goods. .
And nowl began to apply myself to make such access
sary things as I found [most wanted, particularlya
chair and a table; for without these I was not'able"t0'
enjoy the few comforts 1 had in the werld ; I could not

write, or eat, or do several things with so much plea-
sure, without a table: so I went to work. And here I

must needs observe, that as reason is the substance and
original ot'the mathematics, so by stating and squaring
every thing b reason, and bymaking the most rational
judgment oft tings, every man may be. in time, master
of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in
my life; and yet, in time, by labour, application, and
contrivancc, I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but
I could have made, especially ifI had had tools. How-
ever, I made abundance of things, even without tools ;
and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet.
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infinite labour. For example, it I wanted It
board. I had no other wII3 but to cut down a tree, set it
on an iIIlIrII lIIIlIIrII lllt', and how it "It! IIII either side. with
IIII II\II. till I had brought it to he as thin as II plank,
and thou IlulI it smooth with HIV mine. It is true, by
this method l III-ulIl IIIIIkII but ""0 board of II \IlIolo
tIIII-I, but this I had IIII IIIIIIIIIdI lor lIut P:tllt'll('t', IIIIV
IIIIIIII than I had lIIr II prodigious IlI III ol time and lIIlIoIII
"lllt'll it took IIIII up to IIIIILII II plIIIIk III board; but IIIII

tiIIIII III lIIlIouII was little w-oItlI, and so it was as well
IIuIIIlo3IId IIIIII II III as another.

How'III er. I made me a table. and a chair. as l ob-
sIIrI cIl show, in the lirst place; and this I did out ol
the short piIIIIIIs IIt'lIoIIrIls that I brought IIII III3' ralt from
the ship. llut when l wrought out some boards, as
IIlIIII II I made lIII'gIII shelves, ot' the breadth of II l'oot
IIIIIl II lIIIlt, one (Ht'l' another, all along one side ol IIII
IIIII'.II to lII3 all III3 tools, nails, and iron work on; and,
in II w'ord, to sIIpIIIIItII III my thing; at large in their
places, that l IuiIIht IIIIsilI IIIIne at them. I lI'uoIlIeIl
pieces into the wall ot the rock, to lltltlg' my guns, and
all things that would hung up: so that had my IIaIe been
seen. it lookII d like II _IIII 'lll'l'tll IIIIIII'II'LiIIe of all IIeIIIIssIIrv
things I and I had III IIII tlIiIIIr so II'IIIIIl3 at m3 hand,
that it w as a we at pleasure to me to see Iill Il|_\ goods III
we lII order, and especially to find my stoII Ik ol all IIIIces-
sat iIIs so In out.

And now it wasthatl began to keep II journal of every
IlIII"s IIIIIplo3IuIInt; for. iIIIlIIIIIl, at first, I was in too
IIIIiIIlI lIuIr3, and not only lIuII"I3 as to labour, hut in
quIIlI disIIIinIposuro ot IIIiIIII: aiId my journal w,oIIlIl
too, lIIII II lIIIIIn tull ol Inau3 (lull thiIIIrsI . tor ('\am|)|c, 1
qust IIIII II said tlIus---- " Sept. otlth. Alterl lIaIl Irot to
shore, and had IIsIIIIpIId drowIIiuIr, instead of bciuIr
thanklul to God tor III3 IlIIliIIIIIIIIIIIe, havingtirst vomited,
with the meat quantit3 ot salt \\ atIIr which was gotten
into m3 stomach, and II'eoouIriIIIr III3selt a little, I ran
about the. shore, IIIIIiIIinnIr my hands, and beating my
head and lace, exIIlIIiIIIiIIIr at III3 misery, and ('I 3Iiu9; out,
'I was undone, uIIIloIIII! till, tired and faint, I was

forced to lie down IIII the ground to repose ; but durst.
not sleep, for tom 01 being devoured. "

Some da3s alter this, and attm 1 had been on board
the ship and got all that 1 could out of her, I could not
forbear getting up to the t0p of a little mountain. and
looking out to sea, in hOpes of seeing a ship: then fanny
that. at a vast distance I spied a sail. please myself with
the hopes of it. and. after looking steadil till I was
almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down ant weep like a
child. and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But, having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and havmg settled my household stall' and habi-
tation, made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome
about me as] could. I began to keep my journal: of
which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will
he told all these particulars over again), as long as it
lastfid; for, having no more ink, l was forced to leave
it o '.

THE JOURNAL.

September Stltll. 1659. 1, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe. being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm, in
tho oiling. came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island. which I called the lsLANn or Dssram ; all the
rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.

All the rest of that day l Spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances! was brought to, viz. I had
neither food, house, clothes. weapon, nor place to fly to:
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death be-
fore me; that I should either he devoured by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for
want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept soundly,
though it rained all night. -

October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great sur-
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island; which,
as it was some comfort on one hand Sfor seeing her sit
upright, and not broken in pieces. I oped, if the wind
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and
necessaries out of her for my relief), so on the other
hand. it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,

VOL. I. I"
who, I imagined, ifwe had all staid on board, might
have saved the ship, or, at least, that they would not
have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the
men been saved, we might perhaps have huiltus a boat,
out of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the w0rld. I spent great part of this dav
in perplexing myself on these things; but, at length
seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as
near as] could, and then swam on board. This day
also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could
out ofthe ship; which I brought on shore, every tide of
flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, this
was the rainy season.

Oct. 20. l overset my raft, and all the goodsl had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.

Oct. 95. It rained all night and all day. with some
gusts of wind; during which time the ship broke in
pieces (the wind blowing a little harder than before)
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cover-
ing and securing the goods which I had saved, that the
rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to
find out a place to fix my habitation; greatly concern-
ed to secure myselffrom any attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon
a prOper place, under a rock, and marked out a semi-
circle for my encampment ; which I resolved to strength-
en with a work, wall, or fortification, made of double
piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf.

From the 96th to the 30th, [worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part ofthe time it rained exceedingly hard.

The Slst. in the morning, 1 went out into the island
with my gun to see for some food, and discover the
country, when I killed a she goat, and her kid followed
me home, which I afterwards killed also, because it-
would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lav
there for the first night; making it as large as I could,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts; and with them
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortification.

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon I went to work to make me a table. '

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time
of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out with my
gun for two or three hours, ifit did not rain ; then em-
ployed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then
ate what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot ; and
then in the evening, to work again. The working part
ofthis day and the next was wholly employed in mak-
ing my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman:
though time and necessity made me a complete na-
tural mechanic soon after, as I believe they would any
one else.

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but
her flesh good for nothing: of every creature that I
killed I took off the skins, and preserved them. Coming
back by the sea shore, I saw many sorts of sea fowl
which I did not understand: but was surprised, and
almost frightened, with two or three seals; which,
while I was gazing at them (not well knowing what
they were), got into the sea, and escaped me for that
time.

Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to

my liking: nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
 

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
11th was Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took
wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me ;
and even in the making, I pulled it in pieces several
times.

Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for,
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot which
was which.

Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a
pound, or two pounds at most, of powder: and so, put-
ting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and
as remote from one another as possible. On one of
these three days I killed a large bird that was good to
eat; but I knew not what to call it.

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent,
into the rock, to make room for my farther convenience.

Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz, a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or
basket ; so I desisted from my work, and began to con-
sider how to supply these wants, and make me some
tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows,
which were proper enough, though heavy: but the
next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so abso-
lutely necessary that indeed I could do nothing effec-
tually without it; but what kind of one to make I
knew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Bra-
zils they call the iron tree, from its exceeding hardness:
of this, with great labour and almost spoiling my axe,
I cut a piece, and brought it home too, with difficulty
enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive
hardness of the wood, and my having no other way,
made me a long while upon this machine; for I worked
it effectually, by little and little, into the form of a sho-
vel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like ours in
England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long: how-
ever, it served well enough for the uses which I had
occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe,
made after that fashion, or so long a making.

I was still deficient: for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow. A basket I could not make b any means, hav-
ing no such things as twigs that wouid bend to make
wicker ware, at least none yet found out : and as to the
wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel,
but that I had no notion of ; neither did I know how to
go about it: besides, I had no possible way to make
ir0n gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to
run in; so I gave it over: and for carrying away the
earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing
like a bed, which the labourers carry mortar in for the
bricklayers. This was not so difficult to me as the mak-
ing the shovel: and yet this and the shovel, and the
attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow,
took me up no less than four days; I mean, always or
cepting my morning walk with m gnu, which I seldom
omitted, and very seldom faile also bringing home
something tit to eat.

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, be-
cause of my making these tools, when they were finished
I went on; and working every day. as my strength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widen-
ing and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiousl y.

Note. During all this time, [worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a
warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining room, and
a cellar. As for a lodging, I kept to the tent; except
that sometimes in the wet season of the year, it rained
so hard, that I could not keep myself dry; which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees,
like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault
finished ; when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the tap
and one side: so much that, in short, it frightened me,
and not without reason too; for ifI had been under it,
I should never have wanted a gravedigger. Upon this
disaster, I had a great deal of work to do over again,
for I had the loose earth to carry out; and, which was
of more importance, I had the ceiling to prep up, so
that I might be sure no more would come down.

Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly; and got two shores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of board across over each post;
this I finished the next day, and setting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof se-
cured; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for
partitions to part off my house.

Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves,
and knocked u nails on the posts, to hang every thing
up that could lie hung up; and now I began to be in
some order within doors.

Dec. 20. I carried every thing into the cave, and
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of
boards like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but
boards began to be very scarce with me: also I made
me another table.

Dec. 21. Much rain all night and all day: no stirr-
ing out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.

Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another,
so that l catched it, and led it home in a string: when
I had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which
was broke.

N. B. I took such care of it that it lived; and the
leg grew well and as strong as ever: but, by nursing it
so long, it grew tame. and fed upon the little green at
my door, and would not go away. This was the first
time that l entertained a tho'ught of breeding up some
tame creatures, that I might have food when my powder
and shot were all,_spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze; so
that there was no stirring abroad except in the evening,

for food: this time I spent in putting all my things in
order within doors.

January '1. Very but still; but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the

day. This evening, going farther into the valle s which
lay towards the centre of the island, I found t ere was
plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come
at; however, I resolved to try tl'l could not bring my
dog to hunt them down. Accordingly, the next day l '
went out with my dog, and set him upon the goats: but
I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog;
and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.

Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall ; which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved
to make very thick and strong.

N. B. This wall being described before, I urposel y
omit what was said in the journal: it is su cient to
observe, that I was no less time than from the 3d of Ja-
nuary to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and per-
fecting this wall; though it was no more than about 25
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in
the rock to another lace, about twelve yards from it,
the door of the cave being in the centre, behind it.

All this time I werked very hard ; the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but
lthought I should never be perfectly secure till this
wall was finished ; and it is scarce credible what inex~
pressible labour every thing was done with, especially
the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them
into the ground; for I made them much bigger than I
needed to have done.

\Vhen this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuad-
ed myself that if any peeple were to come on shore
there they would not perceive anything like a habita-
tion: and it was very well I did so, as may be observed
hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion.

During this time, i made my rounds in the woods for
game every day, when the rain permitted me, and made
frequent discoveries, in these walks, of something or
other to my advantage; particularly, 1 found a kind of
wild pigeons, who build, not as wood pigeons, in a tree,
but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks:
and, taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed
them up tame, and did so; but when they grew older
they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for want
of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them: how-
ever, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat. And now, in the ma-
naging my household affairs, 1 found myself wanting in
many things, which I thought at first it was impossible
for me to make; as indeed, as to some ofthem it was:
for instance, I could never make a cask to he beeped.
I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before; but
I could never arrive to the capacity of making one by
them, though I Spent many weeks about it: I could
neither put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to
one another as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over. In the next place, I was at a great loss
for candle; so that as soon as it was dark, which was
generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed.
I remembered the lump of beeswax with which [.made
candles in my African adventure; but I had none of
that new; the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat, I saved the tallow; and with a little dish
made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I

added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and
this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like
a candle. l n the middle of all my labours it happened,
that in rummaging my things I found a little bag; which
as! hinted before, had been tilled with corn for the
feeding of oultry; not for this voyage, but before, as I
suppose, w en the ship came from Lisbon. \Vbat little
remainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured
by the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks
and dust; and being willing to have the bag for some
other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I di-
vided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I
shook the husks of corn out of it, on one side of my
fortification under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain 'ust now mention-
ed, that I threw this stuff away; ta ing no notice of
anything, and not so much as remembering that] had

thrown any thing there: when about a mouth after, I
saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of

the ground, which I fancied might be some plant 1 had

not seen; but I was surprised and perfectly astonished,

when, after a little Ion er time, I saw about ten or

twelve cars come out, w iich were perfect green barleiyI

(hf tpe same kind as our European, nay, as our Englis
ar e .

It i); impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had hitherto
acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed I had
very few notions of religion in my head, nor had enter-
tained any sense of any thing that had befallen me,
otherwise than as chance, or, as we lightly say, what
pleases God; without so much as inquiring into the end
of Providence in these things, or his order in governing
events in the world. But after 1 saw barley grow there,
in a climate which I knew was not proper forocorn, and
especially as I knew not how it came there, It startled
me strangely; and I began to suggest,that God had mi-
raculously caused this grain to grow without any help
of seed sown, and that it was so directed purely for my
sustenance, on that wild miserable place.

This touched m heart a little, and brought tears out

of my eyes; and be an to bless myself that such a
prodigy of nature shou d happen upon my account: and
this was the more strange to me, because I saw near it
still, all along by the side ofthe rock, some other strag-
gling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and

which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa,
when l was ashore there.

1 not only thought these the pure iroducticns of Pro-
videnee for my support, but, not oubtiug that there
was more in the place, I went over all that part of the
island where I had been before, searching in every cor-
ner, and under every rock, for more ofit; but I could
not find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts, that
I had shook out a bag of ehicken's meat in that place,
and then the wonder began to cease: and I must con-
fess, my religious thankfulness to God's providence
began to abate toe, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common ; though I ought to
have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen
a providence, as if it had been miraculous: for it was
really the work of Providence, as to me, that should
order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the
rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also,
that I should throw it out in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it Sprang
up immediately; whereas, ifl had thrown it anywhere
else, at that time, it would have been burned up and
destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of June;
and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again; hoping, in time to have some quantity sutlieient
to supply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth
year that I could allow myself the least grain of this
corn to eat, and even then buts aringly, as I shall show
afterwards, in its order; for l ost all that l sowed the
first season, by not observing the preper time; as I
sowed just before the dry season, so that it never came
up at all, at least not as it would have done; of which
in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care; and whose use was of the same kind, or to the
same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
tor I found ways to cook it up without baking, though

I did that also after some time.--But to return to my
Journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months,
to get my wall done; and on the 14th of April I closed
It up, coutriving to get into it, not by a door, but over

the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on
the outside of my habitation.

April 16. I hutshed the ladder; so I went up with
the ladder to the tap, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down in the inside: this was a complete en-
closure to me; for within I had room enough, and no-

thing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount mv wall.

The very niaxt day after this wall was finished, I had
almost all my labour overthrown at once, and myself
killed; the case was thus:--As I was busy in the in-
side of it, behind my tent just at the entrance into my
cave, l was terribl frightened with a most dreadful
surprising thing indeed; for all on a sudden, I found
the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and
two of the posts 1 had set up in the cave cracked in a
frightful manner. I was heartily scared; but thought
nothing of what really was the cause, only thinking that
the top of my cave was falling in, as some ofit had done
before: and for fear I should be buried in it, 1 ran for-
ward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the
hill, which [expected might roll down upon me. 1 had
no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground than I
plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake: for the ground
I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes dis-
tance, with three such shocks as would have overturned
the strongest building that could be supposed to have
stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a
rock, which stood about half a mile from me, next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I never
heard in all my life. I perceived also that the very sea
was ut into a violent motion by it; and I believe the
shoefis were stronger under the water than on the island.
l was so much amazed with the thing itself (having
never felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that

had), that l was like one dead or stupilied; and the mo-
tion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that
was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the
rock awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the
stupifled condition 1 was in, filled me with horror; and
I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent
and my household goods, and burying all at once; this
sunk my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage; yet! had not heart
enough to go over my wall again, for fear of being bu-
ried alive, but sat still upon the ground greatly cast
down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All
this while I had not the least serious religious thought,
nothing but the common Lord have mercy upon me! and
when it was over, that went away too.

\Vbile I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; and soon after the wind
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an hour
it blew a most dreadful hurricane: the sea was all on a
sudden covered with foam and froth; the shore was
covered with a breach of the water; the trees were
torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it was. This
held about three hours, and then began to abate; and
in two hours more it was quite calm, and began to rain
very hard. All this while I sat upon the ground, very
much terrified and dejected; when on a sudden it came
into my thoughts. that these winds and rain being the
consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself
was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave
again. With this thought my spirits began to revive;
and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and
sat down in my tent; but the rain was so violent that
my tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and l was
forced to get into my cave, though very much afraid
and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head. This
violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the
water go out, which would else have drowned my cave.
After I had been in my cave for some time, and found
no more shocks ot' the earthquake follow, I began to be
more composed. And now to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store
and took a small sup of rum; which, however, [did
then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I could have
no more when that was gone. It continued raining all

that night, and great part of the next day, so that I
could not stir abroad: but my mind being more com-

posed, I began to think of what I had best do; conclud-
mg, that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there would he no living for me in a cave, but I must
consider of building me some little but in an 0(peu place,
which I might surround with a wall as I had one here,
and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men:

for if I staid where I was, I should certainly one time
or other be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it now stood, being just under the
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be
shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I s cut
the two next days, being the 19th and 20th of Apri . in
contriving where and how to remove in habitation.
The fear of being swallowed alive afl'ecte me so that
I never sle t in quiet; and yet the apprehension of
lying abroa without any fence was almost equal to it:
but still, when I looked about, and saw how every thing
was put in order, how pleasantly I was concealed, and
how safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it would re-
quire a vast deal of time for me to do this; and that I

must be contented to run the risk where I was till I had
formed a convenient camp, and secured it so as to re-
move to it. With this conclusion I composed myself
for a time; and resolved that I would go to work with
all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, 8:0.
in a circle as before, and set up my tent in it when it
was finished; but that I would venture to stay where
I was till it was ready, and tit to remove to. This was
the 215t.

April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this measure into execution; but I was at
a great loss about the tools. I had three large axes,
and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets
for trallic with the Indians); but with much chOpping
and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of
notches, and dull: and though I had a grindstone, I
could not turn it aml grind my tools too. This caused
me as much thought as a statesman would have bestow-
ed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the
life and death ofa man. At length l contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that 1 might have
both my hands at liberty.

'ote. I had never seen any such thing in England, or
at least not to take notice how it was done, though since
I have observed it is very common there: besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine
cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.

April-18,29. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.

April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been
low a great while, I now took a survey of it. and re-
duced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which made
my heart very heavy.

May 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-
side, the tide being low, 1 saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask:
when I came to it. I found a small barrel, and two or
three pieces ofthe wreck ofthe ship, which were dri-
ven on shore by the late hurricane; and looking to-
wards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher
out of the water than it used to do. [examined the
barrel that was driven on shore, and soon fonml it was
a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and
the powder was caked as hard as a stone: however, I
rolled it farther on the shore for the present, and went
on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of
the ship, to look for more.

\Vben I came down to the ship I found it strangely
removed. The forccastlc, which lay before buried in
sand. was heaved up at least six feet: and the stern
(which was broke to pieces and parted from the rest by
the force of the sea, soon after] had left rummaging
of her), was tossed as it were up, and cast on one side:
and the. sand was thrown so high on that side next her
stern, that I could now walk quite up to her when the
tide was out; whereas there was a great piece of water
before. so that I could not come within a quarter ofa
mile of the wreck without swimming. I was surprised
with this at first, but soon concluded it must be done
by the earthquake; and as by this violence the ship
was more broke open than formerly, so many things
came dailv on shore, which the sea had loosened, and

lwhich the winds and water rolled by degrees to the
and.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether I could make
any way into the. ship: but I found nothing was to be
expected ofthat kind, for all the inside of the ship was
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not
to despair of anything, I resolved to pull every thing
to pieces that I could of the ship. concluding that eVery
thing I could get from her would be of some use or
other to me.

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held some ofthe upper
part or quarter deck together; and when I had cut it
through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could
from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming
in, l was obliged to give over for that time.

May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that
l dnrst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just
going to leave off I caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long line of some ropeyarn, but I had no
hooks; yet I frequently caught hsh enough, as much
as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate
them dry.

May 5. \Vorked on the wreck: cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks olI' from the
decks; which I tied together, and made swim on shore
when the tide of flood came on.

May 6. \Vorked on the wreck: got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron work ; work-
ed very hard, and came home very much tired, and had

thoughts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an
intent to work : but found the weight of the wreck had
broke itself down, the beams being cut; that several
pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose ; and the inside
of the hold lay so Open that I could see into it; but al-
most full of water and sand.

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wrench up the deck, which la now quite clear of
the water and sand. I wrenche up two planks, and
brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the
iron crow in the wreck for next day.

May 9. 'Vent to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow, but could not
break them up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and
could stir it; but it was too heavy to remove.

lllay 10--14. \Vent every day to the wreck; and
got a great many pieces of timber and boards, or plank,
and two or three hundred weight of iron.

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if] could not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of
one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it
lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not
make any blow to drive the hatchet.

May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
bntl staid so long in the woods, to get pigeons for
food, that the tide prevented my going to the wreck
that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me, but resolv-
ed to see what they were, and found it was a piece of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

Illay '24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck ; and with hard labour 1 loosened some things so
much with the crow, that the first blowing tide several
casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests: but
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which
had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt water and the
sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day
to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to get
food ; which I always appointed, during this part of my
employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might
be ready when it was ehbed out: and by this time I
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work, enough
to have built a good boat, if I had known how: and I
also got at several times, and in several pieces, near one
hundred weight ofthe sheet lead.

June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle. 'l'his wasthe first] had seen, which,
it seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity; for had I happened to be on the
other side ofthe island, I might have had hundreds of
them every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs: and her flesh was to me, at that
time, the most savoury and pleasant that I ever tasted
in my life; having had no flesh but of goats and fowls,
since I landed in this horrid place.

June 18. Rained all that day, and l staid within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold, and l was
somewhat chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.

June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my

head, and feverish.

June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help: pravcd to God, for. the first time since the

storm off Hull; but scarce knew what i said, or why,
my thoughts being all confused.
June 22. A little better ; but under dreadful appre-

hensions of sickness. . .
June 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and

then a violent headach.

June 24-. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent: the fit held me seven

hours; cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better; and having no victualsto eat, took
my gun, but found myself very weak : however I killed
a she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and

VOL. I. c
broiled some of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed
it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all day, and neither ate nor drank. l was read to
perish for thirst; but so weak I had not strengt to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed
to God again, but was lightheaded: and when I was not,
I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, " Lord, look upon me! Lord, ity me!
Lord, have mercy upon me !" I suppose 1 di nothing
else for two or three hours; till the fit wearing off, I
fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night.
\Vhen I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but
weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as I had no
water in my whole habitation, l was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again. In this second sleep
I had this terrible dream: I thought that l was sitting
on the ground on the outside of my wall, where I sat
when the storm blew after the earthquake; and that I
saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright
flame of fire, and light upon the ground: he was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just hear
to look towards him: his countenance was most inex-
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe:
when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I
thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before
in the earthquake; and all the air looked, to my appre-
hension, as ifit had been filled with tlashes of tire. He
had no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved for-
ward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground,
at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so
terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it :
all that I can say I understood was this: " Seeing all
these things have not brought thee to re entance, now
thou shalt die ;" at which wordsl thoug t he lifted up
the spear that was in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my
soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even while it
was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is
it any more possible to describe the impression that re-
mained upon my mind when I awaked, and found it was
but a dream.

1 had, alas! no divine knowledge: what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my father was then
worn out, by an uninterru ted series, for eight years, of
seafaring wnck edness, an a constant conversation with
none but such as were, like myself, wicked and pro-
fane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had,
in all that time, one thought that so much as tended
either to looking upward towards God, or inward to-
wards a reflection upon my own ways: but a certain
stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or conscious-
ness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was
all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature
among our common sailors, can be supposed to be 5 not
having the least sense, either of the fear of God in dan-
ger, or of thankfulness to him in deliverances.

In the relating what is already passed of my stor ,this
will be the more easily believed, when I shall ad , that
through all the variety of miseries that had to this day
befallen me, I never had so much as one thought of its
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment
for my sin ; either my rebellious behaviour against my
father, or my present sins, which were great, or even as
a unishment for the general course of my wicked life.
V hen I was on the desperate expedition on the desert
shores of Africa, 1 never had so much as one thought of
what would become of me; or one wish to God to di-
rect me whither I should go, or to keep me from the
danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from
voracious creatures as cruel savages: but I was uite
thoughtless of a God or a Providence; acted Ii e a
mere brute, from the principles of nature, and by the
dictates of common sense only; and indeed hardly that.
\Vhen l was delivered and taken up at sea by the Por-
tuguese captain, well used, and dealt with justly and
honourably, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankt'ulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was
shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning, on
this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking on it
as a judgment: I only said to myself often, that I was an
unfortunate dog, and born to be always miserable.
It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, l was
surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of
soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might have
come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it
began, in a mere common flight ofjoy, or, as I may say,
being glad I was alive, without. the least reflection upon
the distinguished goodness of the hand which had pre-
served me, and had singled me out to be preserved,
when all the rest were destroyed, Or an inquiry why
Providence had been thus merciful to me: just the
same common sort ofjoy which seamen generally have,
after they are got safe ashore from a shipwreck ; which
they drown all in the next bowl of punch, and forget
almost as soon as it is over: and all the rest of my life
was like it. Even when I was afterwards, on due con-
sideration, made sensible of my condition,--how l was
cast on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human
kind, out of all hOpe of relief, or prospect of redemp-
tion,---as soon as I saw but a prospect of living. and
that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all the
sense of my affliction were off, and I began to be very
easy, applied my self to the worlts proper for my preser-
vation and supply, and was far enough from being af-
flicted at my condition as a judgment from Heaven, or
as the hand ofGod against me: these were thoughts
which very seldom entered into my head.

The growing up ofthe corn, as is hinted in my Jour-
nal, had, at first, some little influence upon me, and
began to affect me with seriousness, as long as I thought
it had something miraculous in it; but as soon as that
part ofthe thought was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it were ofl'also, as l have noted
already. Even the earthquake, though nothing could
he more terrible in its nature, or more immediately di-
recting to the invisible Power which alone directs sueh
things, yet, no sooner was the fright over, but the im-
pression it had made went off also. I had no more
sense of God, or his judgments, much less of the present
aflliction of my circumstances being from his hand, than
if I had been in the most prosperous condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view
of the miseries of death came to place itself before me;
when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a
strong distemper, and nature was exhausted with the
violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with
my past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon
wickedness, provoked the justice of God to lay me
under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me tn so
vindictive a manner. These reflections oppressed me
for the second or third day of my distemper; and in the
violence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
preaches of my conscience, extorted from me some
words like praying to God: though I cannot say it was
a prayer attended either with desires or with hopes; it
was rather the voice of mere fright and distress. My
thoughts were confused : the convictions great upon my
mind; and the horror ofdying in such a miserable con-
dition raised vapours in my head with the mere appre-
hension: and in these hurries of my soul, I knew not
what my tongue might express: but it was rather ex-
clamation, such as, " Lord, what a miserable creature
am 1! [fl should be sick, I shall certainly die for want.
of help; and what will become of me?" Then the tears
burst out of my eyes, and [could say no more for a
good while. In this interval, the good advice of my
father came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned at the beginning of this story, viz.
that ifl did take this foolish step, God would not bless
me; and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist in my recovery. " New," said I, aloud,
"my dear father's words are come to pass; God's jus-
tiee has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear
me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had
mercifully put me in a station of life wherein I might
have been happy and easy; but I would neither see it
myself, nor learn from my parents to know the blessing
of it. I left them to mourn over my folly; and now I
am left to mourn under the consequences of it: I re-
fused their help and assistance who would have pushed
me in the world, and would have made every thing
easy to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle
with too great for even nature itself to support; and
no assistance, no comfort, no advice." Then I cried
out, " Lord, be my help, forl am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years. But I return to my Journal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely oil", I got up;
and though the fright and terror ofmy dream was very
great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague would
return again the next day, and now was my time to get
something to refresh and support myself when I should
be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large square
case--bottle with water; and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed: and to take oll' the chill or aguish
disposition ofthe water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but could eat very little. I walked about; but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted
under a sense of my miserable condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next day. At night, I made
my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted
in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell: and this
was the first. bit of meat I had ever asked God's bless-
ing to, as I could remember, in my whole life. After I
had eaten, I tried to walk ; but found myself so weak
that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out
without that); so I went but a little way, and sat down

I

WNW
ill) 1; "(he "hit" . "I I
., 1 z ' ,

. t
{111. '

 

upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was
Just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat
here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me:
What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? \Vhence is it produced? And what am I, and
all the other creatures. wild and tame, human and
brutal? Whence are we? Surely, we are all made by
some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the
air and sk y. And who is that? Then it followed most
naturally,--It is God that has made all. \Vell, but
then, it came on strangely, if God has made all these
things, he guides and governs them all, and all things
that concern them ; for the power that could make all
things must certainly have power to guide and direct
them: if so, nothing can ha pen. in the great circuit of
his works, either without his knowledge or appoint-
ment.

And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that lam here. and am in this dreadful condition:
and if nothing happens without his appointment, he has
appointed all this to befall me. Nothing occurred to
my thought to contradict any of these conclusions: and
therefore it rested upon me with the greatest force,

that it must needs he that God had appointed all this to
befall me; that l was brought to this miserable circum-
stance by his direction, be having the sole power, not
of me only, but ofcvery thingthat hap )eus iuthe world.
Immediately it followed, \Vhy hasGot done this to me?
\Vhat have I done to be thus used? My conscience
presently checked me in that in uiry, as ifI bad blas-
phemed; and methought it spo e to me like a voice,
" \Vretch! dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look
back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself,
what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it that thou wert
not long ago destroyed? \Vhy wert tbou not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the light when the ship
was taken by the Sallee man of war ; devoured by the
wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned here,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask
what thou hast done ? " l was struck dumb with these
reflections, as one astonished, and had not a word to
say; no, not to answer to myself; and, rising up pen-
sive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went over
my wall, as if I had been going to bed : but my thoughts88 LIFE AND Anvea'rvatzs

were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep;
so I sat down in the chair and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it oc-
curred to my thought, that the Brazilians take no phy-
sic but their tobacco for almost all distempers; and I
had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests,
which was quite cured; and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt: for in this
chest 1 found a cure. both for soul and body. I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the to-
bacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too,
I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which to this time I had not found leisure, or so
much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the
table. "'hat use to make of the tobacco I knew not,
as to my distem er, nor whether it was good for it or
not; but I trie several experiments with it, as if]
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first
took apiece of the leaf, and chewed it in my month;
which, indeed, at first, almost stupilied my brain; the
tobacco being green and strong, and such as I had not
been much used to. Then I took some and steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose
ofit when I lay down: and, lastly, I burned smne upon
a pan ofcoals, and held my nose close over the smoke
of it~as long as I could bear it; as well for the heat as
almost for sutlbcation. In the interval of this Opera-
tion, [took up the Bible, and began to read; but my
head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear
reading, at least at that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me were
these: " Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These words
were very apt to my case; and made some impression
upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though
not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being
delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to me ;
the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehen-
sion of things, that, as the children of Israel said when
the were promised flesh to eat, " Can God'spread a
tab e in the wilderness?" so I began to say, Can even
God himself deliver me from this place? And as it was
not for many years that any hopes appeared, this pro-
vailed ver often upon my thoughts: but, however, the
words ma e a great impression upon me, and l mused
upon them very often. It now grew late; and the to-
bacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much that I
inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp burning in the cave,
lest I should want any thing in the night, and went to
bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never had
done in all my life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon him in
the day of trouble, he would deliver me. After my
broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum
in which I had steeped the tobacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco that indeed I could
scarce get it down: immediately upon this! went to
bed. I found presently the rum flew up into my head
violently; but I fell into a sound sleep. and waked no
more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this hour
I am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next day and
night, and till almost three the day after; for otherwise
I know not how I should lose a day out of my reckon-
ing in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and
recrossing the Line, I should have lost more than one
day; but certainly I lost a day in my account, and never
knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the
other, when I awaked, I found myself exceedingly re-
freshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful: when I got
up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short, [had
no fit the next day, but continued much altered for the

better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went
abroad with my un, but did not care to travel too far.
I killed a seafow or two, something like a brand goose,
and brought them home; but was not very forward to
eat them ; so I ate some more of the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,
which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz.
the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so
much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold
my head over the smoke: however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the 1st ofJuIy, as I hoped I
should have been; for I had a little ofthe cold fit, but
it was not much.

Jul '2. I renewed themedicine all the three ways;
and osed myself with it as at first, and doubled the
quantity which I drank.

July 3. I missed the [it for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this scripture, " I will deliver thee ;"
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon
, my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it: but as l was
discouraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred
to my mind that l pored so much upon my deliverance
from the main atlliction that l disregarded the deliver-
ance I had received ; and l was, as it were, made to ask
myself such questions as these, viz. Havel not been
delivered, and wonderfullv too, from sickness; from
the most distressed condition that could he, and that
was so frightful to me? and what notice have 1 taken
of it? Have I done mv part? God has delivered me,
but I have not glorified him ; that is to say, I have not
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance:
and how can I expect a greater deliverance? This
touched my heart very much ; and immediately I knelt
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from
my sickness.

July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it; and imposed upon myselfto read awhile every
morning and every night; not binding myself to the
number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should
engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
work, that I found m heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wic 'edness of my past life. The im-
pression of my dream revived; and the words, " All
these things have not brought thee to repentance," ran
seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of
God to give me repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially, the very same day, that rcadiu the scripture,
I came to these words, " He is exalte a Prince and
a Saviour; to give repentance, and to give remission."
I threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as
my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of
joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son of David!
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me re-
pentance!" This was the first time in all my life I could
say, in the true sense of the words, that I prayed; for

now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, founded on the encourage-
ment of the word of God: and from this time, [may
say. I began to have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above.
" Call on me. and I will deliver thee," in a different
sense from what I had ever done before; for then I had

no notion of any thing being called deliverance, but m
being delivered from the captivity I was in: for thong t
I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was
certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense
in the world. But now I learned to take it in another
sense: now I looked back upon my past life with such
horror, and my sins a )peared so dreadful, that m soul
sought nothing of Go but deliverance from the end of
guilt that bore down all m comfort. As for my soli-
tary life, it was nothing: did not so much as pra to
be delivered from it, or think of it; it was all ot'uo
consideration in comparison with this. And I add this
part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that when-
ever they come to a true sense of things, they will tiud
deliverance from sin a much greater lessiug than de-
liverance from afllictiou. , But, leaving this part, I
return to my Journal. _
My condition began now to be, though not less ml-
serable as to my way of living, et much easier to my
mind: and my thoughts being irected, by constantly
reading the Scripture and praying to God, to thingsof
a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within,
which, till now, I knew nothing of ; also, as my health
and strength returned, I bestirred me to furnish myselfwith every thing thatI wanted, and make my way of

living as regular as I could.

From the 4th ofJuly to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering
up his strength after a lit ofsickness: for it is hardly to
be imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I
was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an
ague before: neither can I recommend it to any one to
practise, by this experiment: and though it did carry
oll'the tit, yet it rather contributed to weakening me;
for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time. I learned from it also this, in particular;
that being abroad in the rainy season was the most per-
nicious thing to my health that could be, especially in
those rains which came attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry
season was almost always accompanied with such storms,
so I found that this rain was much more dangerous than
the rain which fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possibility of deliverance from this con--
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no human shape had ever set foot
upon that place. Having secured my habitation, as
I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to
make a more perfect discovery ofthe island, and to see
what other productions I might find, which I yet knew
nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey ofthe island itself. I went up
the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts
on shore. I found, after! came about two miles up,
that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh
and good: but this being the dry season, there was
hardly any water in some parts of it; at least not any
stream. On the banks of this brook I found many
pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and co-
vered with grass: and on the rising parts of them, next
to the higher grounds (where the water as it might be
supposed never overflowed), I found a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a ver great and strong
stalk : and there were divers other pfants, which I had
no knowledge of, or understanding about, and that
might, perhaps have virtues of their own, which I
could not find out. I searched for the cassava root,
which the Indians in all that climate make their bread

of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes,
but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, imper-
fect. lcontented myself with these discoveries for this
time; and came back, musing with tnyself what course
[ might take to know the virtue and goodness of any

of the fruits or plants which I should discover; but
could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils,
that I knew little of the plants in the field; at least,

very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
mv distress.

i'l'he next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and after going something farther than I had

gone the day before, 1 found the brook and the savan-
nahs begin to cease, and the countr become more
woody than before. In this part] foun different fruits;
and particularly 1 found melons upon the ground, in
great abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the vines
indeed, had spread over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were now just in their prime, ver ripe and rich.
This was a surprising discovery, and was exceed-
ingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience
to eat sparingly of them ; remembering that when I was
ashore in Barbary, the eating of gra es killed several
of our Englishmen, who were slavest tere, by throwing
them into tluxes and fevers. I found, however, an ex-
cellent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure or

dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or
raisins are kept; which I thought would be (as indeed
they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when
no grapes were to be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to

my habitation; which, by the way, was the first night94 LIFE AND snvssrcnss

as I might say I had lain from home. At night, I took
my first contrivance,' and got up into a tree, where I
slept well, and the next morning proceeded on my dis-
covery, traveling near four miles, as I might judge b

the length of the valley; keeping still due north, wit I
a ridge of hills on the south and north sides of me. At
the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
country seemed to descend to the west; and a little
5 ring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of
t ie hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and
the country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing,
every thing being in a constant verdure, or flourish of
spring. that it looked like a planted garden. I descend-
ed a little on the side of that delicious vale, surveying
it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
other alllicting thoughts), to think that this was all my
own; that I was king and lord of all this country inde-
feasibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could
convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely
as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abun-
dance of cocoa trees, and orange, lemon, and citron
trees, but all wild, and very few bearing any fruit; at
least not then. However, the green limes that I gather-

ed were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which

made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was approaching. In order

to this I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel of
limes and melons in another place ; and taking a few of

each with me, I traveled homeward ; and resolved to
come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what] could
make to carry the rest home. Accordingly, baring

spent three days in this journey, I came home iso I
must now call my tent and my cave): but before got
thither, the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the
fruits, and the weight of thejuice, having broken and

bruised them, they were good for little or nothing: as to
the limes, they were good, but lcould bring only a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to m heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when gathered
them, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and abun-
dance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there
were some wild creatures thereabonts which had done
this, but what they were I knew not. However, as I
found there was no laying them up in heaps, and no
carr in them away in a sack; but that one way they
won d e destroyed, and the other way they would be
crushed with their own weight; I took another course:
I then gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hang them upon the out branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well
ptand under.

When I came home from this journey, [contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and
the pleasantuess of the situation; the security from
storms on that side; the water and the wood: and con-
cluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode
in, which was by far the worst part of the country.
Upon the whole, I began to consnder of removing my
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as

where l was now situate, if possible, in that pleasant
fruitful art of the island.

This! ought ran long in my head; and I was exceed-
ing fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the
place tempting me: but when I came to a nearer view
of it, I considered that l was now by the seaside, where
it was at least possible that something might happen to
my advantage, and, by the same ill fate that brought me
hither, mi ht bring some other unhappy wretches to
the same p ace; and though it was scarce probable that
any such thing should ever ha pen, yet to enclose my-
self among the hills and woo s in the centre of the
island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render
such an affair not only improbable, but impossible; and

that therefore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I
spent much of In time there for the whole remaining
part of the mont of July; and though upon second
thoughts I resolved, as above stated, not to remove;
yet I built me a little kind ofa bower, and surrounded
it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked, and filled
between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure,
sometimes'dwo or three nights together; always going
over it with a ladder as before: so that I fancied now
I had my country and my seacoast house. This work
took me up till the beginning ofAugust.

I had but newlv finished my fence, and began to en-
joy my labour, when the rains came on, and made me
stick close to my first habitation: for though I had
made a tent like. the other, with a piece ofsail, and
Spread it very well,yet I had not the shelter ofa hill to
keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat
into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said. I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3d of August, I found the grapes I had hung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins
of the sun: so I began to take them down from the
trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as the rains
which followed would have spoiled them, and I should
have lost the best part of my winter food; for I had
above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it began to rain: and from hence,
which was the 14th ofAugust, it rained more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one
of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought,
had been dead : and I heard no more of her, till, to my
astonishment, she came home with three kittens. This
was the more strange to me, because, about the end of
August, though I had killed a wild cat as I called it,

with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a different kind
from our European cats: yet the young cats were the
same kind of house-breed as the old one; and both of
my cats being females, I thought it very strange. But
from these three, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats. that] was forced to kill them like vermin,
or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as
much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain ;
so that I could not stir, and was now ver careful not
to be much wet. In this confinement I hegan to be
straiteued for food; but venturing out once or twice,
I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the
26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to
me. My tood was now regulated thus: I ate a bunch
Of raisins for m breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or ot'the turtle {roiled for my dinner (for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing);

- and two or three ofthe turtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the outside of the hill; and made a door, or
way out, which came beyond my fence or wall: and so
I came in and out this way. But I was not pcrfectl
easy at lying so Open: for as I had managed myse f
before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas uow,I
thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest crea-
ture that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat.

September 30. l was now come to the unhappy an-
niversary of m landing. I cast up the notches on my
post, and foun 1 had been on shore three hundred and

sixty-live days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, set-
ting it apart for religious exercise, prostrating myself
on the ground with the most serious humiliation, con-
fessing my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous
judgments upon me, and praying to him to have mercy
on me through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the
least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going
down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began
it. I had all this time observed no sabbath-day; for as
at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had,
VOL. 1. n
after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by
making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days
were: but now having cast up the days as above, 1
found I had been there a year, so 1 divided it into

weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a sabbath:
though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my
ink beginning to fail me, 1 contented myselfto use it
more sparingly; and to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life, without continuing a daily
memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so
as to provide for them accordingly; butl bought all
my experience before I had it; and what I am going
to relate was one ofthe most discouraging experiments-

that I had made at all.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of
barley and rice which I had so surprisingly found
sprung up as I thought ofthemselves. I believe there
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of
barley; and now i thought it a proper time to sow it
after the rains; the sun being in its southern position,
going from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of ground,
as well as I could with my wooden spade, and dividing
it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as l was sow-
ing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that 1 would
not sow it all at lirst, because I did not know when was
the proper time for it; so I sowed about two-thirds of
the seed, leav ing about a handful of each: and it was
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not
one grain of what lsoued this time came to any thing;
for the dry mouth foilowing, and the earth having thus
had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the
wet season had come again, and then it grew as ifit had
been but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not
grow, which l easily imagined was from the drought, I
sought for a moister piece of ground to make another
trial in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new

bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a
little before the vernal equinox. This having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, sprung up very
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
only part of the seed left, and not daring to sow all that
I had, I got but a small ( uantity at last', my whole crop
not amounting to above alfa peek of each kind. But
by this experiment I was made master of my business,
and knew exactlv when was the proper time to sow;

and that I might'expcct two seed times and two bar--
vests every year.

\Vhile this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to settle,
which was about the month of November, Imade a
visit up the country to my bower; where, though I had
not been some months, yet I found all things just as I
left them. The circle or double hedge that I had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I
had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts, were
all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as
a willow tree usually shoots the first year after lopping
its head; but I could not tell what tree to call it that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet
very well pleased, to see the young trees grow ; .and l

runed them, and led them to grow as much alike as
rcould: and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure
the grew into in three years; so that. though the
he ge made a circle of about twenty-live yards in dia-
meter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them,
soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufhcient
to lodge under all the dry season. This made me re-
solve to cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge
like this, in a semicircle round my wall (Imean that of
my first dwelling), which I did; and placing the trees
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards dis-
tance from my first fence, they grew presently; and
were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and after-.
wards served for a defence also; as I shall observe in
its order. .

I found new that the seasons of the year might gene-
rally be divided, not into summer and winter, as m

Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons,
which were generally thus: From the middle of Fe-
bruary to the middle of April, rainy; the sun being
then on or near the equinox. From the middle of April
till the middle of August, dry ; the sun being then north
ofthe Line. From the middle ofAugust till the middle
of October rainy; the sun being then come back to the
Line. From the middle of October till the middle
of February, dry; the sun being then to the south of
the Line.

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and some-
times shorter, as the winds happened to blow ; but this
was the general obscrv alien 1 made. After I had found,
by experience, the ill consequences of being abroad in
the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out: and
I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months. In this time I found much etnploytm-nt, and
very suitable also to the time; for l fouml great oven-
sion for many things which 1 had no way to furnish
myself with but by hard labour and constant applica-
tion: particularly, I tried many ways to make my selfa
basket; but all the twigs lcould get for the purpose
proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when l
was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a
basket-maker's in the town where my father lived, to
see them make their wicker ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very ollicions to help, and a great obsery er
of the manner how they worked those things, and
sometimes lending a hand, I had by these means full
knowledge of the methods of it. so that I wanted no-
thing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs ofthat tree. from whence I cut my stakes
that grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows,
willows, and osiers, in England; 1 resolved to try.
Accm-d'ingly, the next day 1 went to my country house,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
I found them to my purpose as much as I could desire:
whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hat-
chet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for
there was great plenty ofthem. 'l'hese I set up to dry

within my circle or hedge; and when they were fit for
use, I carried them to my cdve: and here, during the
next season. I employed myself in making, as well as I

 

could, several baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry
or lay up anything as I had occasion for. Though I
did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufficiently serviceable for my purpose: and thus after-
wards '[ took care never to be without them ; and as my
wicker ware decayed, I made more; especially strong
deep baskets, to place my corn in, instead of sacks,
when I should come to have any quantity of it. _

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two other wants. I had no
vessel to hold any thing that was liquid, except two
runlets, which were almost full of rum; and some glass
bottles, some of the common size, and others (which
were case bottles) square, for the holdingsof waters,
spirits, 8w. I had not so much as a pot to boil any-
thing; excepl. a great kettle which 1 saved out of the
ship, and which was too big for such use as I desired
it, viz. to make broth, and stew a hit of meat by itself.
The second thing I would fain have had was a tobacco-
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one ; how-
ever, I found a contrivance for that too at. last. I em-
ployed myself in planting my second row of stakes or
piles, and also in this wicker working, all the summer
or dry season ; when another business took me up more
time than it could be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island ; and that I had traVeled up the brook,
and so on to where I had built my bower, and where I
had an opening quite to the sea. on the other side of
the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the
seashore, on that side: so taking my gun, a hatchet,

and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot
than usual; with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch
of raisins in my ouch for my store; I began my jour-
ney. \Vheu I lad passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, 1 came within view ofthe sea, to the
west; and it being a very clear day, l fairly descried
land, whether an island or continent I could not tell;
but it lay verv high, extending from \V. to \V.S. W. at

a very great distance; by my guess it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

1 could not tell what part of the world this might be;
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as I concluded b all my observations, must be

near the Spanish dominions; and perhaps was all in-
habited by savages, where, ifI should have landed, I
had been in a worse condition than I was now. I there-
fore acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence,
which I began now to own and to believe ordered
every thing for the best; I say, I quieted my mind
with this, and left 011' afflicting myself with fruitless
wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this all'air, I consi-
dered that if this land was the Spanish coast, 1 should
certainly,one time or other, see some vessel pass or
repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the
savage coast between the Spanish country and the
Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of sa-
vages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail
not to murder and devour all human beings that fall
into their hands.

With these considerations, walking verv leisurely
forward, I found this side of the island, where I now
was, much leasanter than mine; the open or savannah
fields sweet y adorned with flowers and grass, and full
of very line woods. lsaw abundance of parrots; and
faiu would have caught one, if possible, to have kept
it to he tame, and taught it to speak to me. Idid.
after taking some pains, catch a young parrot; for I
knocked it down WIIII a stick, and having recovered it,
I brought it home: but it was some years before I
could made him speak; however, at last [taught him
to call me by my name very familiarly. But the ac-
cident that followed, though it be a trifle, will be very
diverting in its lace.

I was excee ingly amused with this journey. I
found in the low grounds hares, asI thought them to
he, and foxes; but they dill'ercd greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself
to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no
need to be ventnrous: for I had no want offood, and of
that which was very good too; especially these three
sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise. With
these, added to my gra es, Leadenhall market could
not have furnished a tab 0 better than I, in pro ortion
to the company; and though my case was dep arable
enough, et I had great cause for thankfnlness; asI
was not riven to any extremities for food, but had ra-
ther plenty, even to dainties.

I never traveled on this journey above two miles out-
right in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many tunns
and returns, to see what discoveries I could make, that
I came weary enough to the place where I resolved to
sit down for the night; and then [either reposed myself
in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes,
set upright in the ground, either from one tree to an-
other, or so as no wild creature could come at me with-
out waking me.

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was sur rised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst si e of the
island: for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles; whereas on the other side, I had
found but three in a year and a half. Here was also an
infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which
I had seen, and some of which I had not seen before,
and many ofthem very good meat; but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had
more mind to kill a she goat if I could, which I could
better feed on. But though there were many goats
here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with
much more dillicnlty that I could come near them,
the country being tlat and even, and they saw me much
sooner than when I was upon a hill.

I confess this side ofthe country was much pleasanter
than mine; yet i had not the least inclination to re--
move; for asl was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while 1 was here
to be as it were upon ajourncy, and from home. How-
ever, I traveled along the seashore towards the cast, I
suppose about twelve miles; and then setting up a
great pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I
would go home again ; and that the nest journey I took
should he on the other side ofthe island, east from my
dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again:
of which in its place.

ltook another way to come. back than that Iwent,
thinking I could easily keep so much of the island in
my view, that lcould not miss my first dwelling by
viewing the country, but I found myself mistaken; for
being come. abouttwo or three miles, [found mySelf
descended into a very large valley, but so surrounded
with hills, and those hills cov ered with wood, thatl
could not see which was my way by any direction but
that ofthe sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the. day. And it
happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this
valley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
about very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to
find out the seaside, look for my post, and come back
the same way 1 went; and then by easy journeysl
turned homcward, the weather being exceedingly hot,
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things
very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it: and running to take hold of it, I caught
it, and saved it alive from the dog. 1 bad a great mind
to bring it home if I could; for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two,
and so raise a breed of lame goats, which might supply
me when my powder and shot should be all spent.
1 made a collar for this little creature, and with a string
which I had made of some ropeyarn which I always
carried about me, I led him along, though with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed
him and left him; for l was very impatient to be at
home, from whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot eXpress what satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie. dowii in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without a settled
place of abode had been so unpleasant to me, that my
own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me, compared to that; and it rendered every
thing about me so comfortable, that I resolved I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be
my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long journey : during which, most of the
time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my Poll, who began now to be more domestic,
and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then!
began to think of the poor kid which I had penned
within my little circle, and resolved to fetch it home,
or give it some food : accordingly I went, and found it
where. 1 left it (for indeed it could not get out), but
was almost starved for want of food. 1 went and cut
boughs oftrees, and branches of such shrubs as I could
lind, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I
did before to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog: and as l continually fed it, the
creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that
it was from that time one of my domestics also, and
would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my
landing on the island; having now been there two
years, and no more prospect of my being delivered than
the first da [came there. lspent the whole day in

humble an thankful acknowledgments for the many
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have been
infinitely more miserable. lgaye humble and hearty
thanks to God for having been pleased to discover to me,
that it was possible I might be more happy, even in this
solitary condition, than I should have been in the enjoy-
ment of socict ', and in all the pleasures of the world :
that he couh fully make up to me the. deficiencies of
my solitary state, and the want of human society, by his
presence, and the communications of his grace to my
soul; supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to
depend upon his providence here, and to hope for his
eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel lmw much
more happy the Iifel now led was, with all its mise-
rable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomina-
ble lifel led all the past part of my days: and now I
changed both my sorrows and my joys: my very de-
sires altered, my affections changed their gusts, and my
delights were perfectlv new from what they were at my
first coming, or indeed for the two years past.

Before, asl walked about, either on my hunting, or
for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my
condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts] was in; and how I
was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, with-
out redemption. In the midst of the greatest compo-
sures of my mind, this would break out upon me like a
storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep like a
child: sometimes it would take me in the middle ofmy
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and
look upon the ground for an hour or two together:
this was still worse to me; but if I could burst into
tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it would
go off; and my grief being exhausted, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; 1 daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn-
ing, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, " I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee :"
immediately it occurred that these words were to me;
why else should they be directed in such a manner,
ynst at the moment when I was mourning over my con-

dition, as one forsaken of God and man? " 'Vell then,"
said I, " if God does not forsake me, of what ill con-
sequence can that be, or what matters it, though the
world should forsake me; seeing on the other hand, if
I had all the world, and should lose the favour and

blessing of God, there would be no comparison in
the loss ?"

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind,

that it was tossible for me to he more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I
should ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thought I was going to give
thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know
not what it was, but something shocked my mind at
that thought, and l durst not speak the words. " IIow
canst then be such a hypocrite," said I even audihly,
" to be thankful for a condition, which, however thou
mayst endeavour to be contented with, then wouldst
rather pray heartily to be delivered from ?" Here I
stopped: but though Icould not say I thanked God for
being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for open-
ing my eyes, by whatever atllicting providences, to see
the former condition of my life, and to mourn for my
wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or
shut it, but In very soul within me blessed God for
directing my rieud in England, without any order of
mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for assisting
me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
Thus, and in this dispdsition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular an account of m works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be 0 )served,
that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly di-
vided my time, according to the several daily employ-
ments that were before me; such as, first, My duty to
God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly
set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which general y

took me up three hours every morning, when it did not
rain: thirdly, Ordering, curing. preserving, and cook-
ing what I had killed or catched for my supply. 'l'hese
took up great part of the day; also it is to be consider-
ed. that in the middle ot'the day, when the sun was in
the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir

out ; so that about four hours in the evening was all the
time I could he supposed to work in; with this excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting
and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may
be added the extreme laboriousness of my work ; the.
many hours which, for want of tools, want of help. and
want of skill, every thing I did took up out of my time:
for example, I was full two-and-l'orty days making me
a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawycrs, with their tools and a saw-pit,
would have out six of them out. of the same tree in Half
a day.

My case was this; it was a large tree which was to
he cut down. because my board was to be a broad one.
This tree l was three days cutting down, and two more
in cutting oil the bnnghs, and reducing it to a log or

icce of timher. \Vith incxpressible hacking and
lewing, l reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it
was light. enough to move; then I turned it, and tnade
one side of it smooth and flat as a board, from end to
end; then turning that side downward, cut the other
side, till I brought the plank to be about three inches
thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge
the labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but
labour and patience carried me through that, and many
other things: I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with so
little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done

with help and tools, was a vast labour, and re aired a
prodigious time, to do alone, and by hand. otwith-
standing this, with patience and labour 1 went through
many things; and, indeed, every thing that my circum-
stances made necessary for me to do, as will appear by
what follows.

I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground
I had manured or dug for them was not great; for, as
I observed, my seed of each was not above the quan-

tity of hall'a peck, having lost one whole crop by sow-

ing in the dry season: but now my crop promised very
well; when on a sudden] found I was in danger of
losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it
was scarce possible to keep from it ; as first, the goats,
and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and da , as
soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it cool get
no time to shoot up into stalk.

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and the more, because it required speed. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small, suited to my

crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the

day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand
and bark all night lung; so in a little time the enemies
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and
well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were as likelv to ruin me
now, when it was in the ear: for going along by the
place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop sur-
rounded with I'owls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I im-
mediately let tly among them (for I always had my gun
with me); I had no sooner shot, but there arose up a

little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from
among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes; that I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all; and
what to do [could not tell: however, I resolved not to
lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch It
night and day. In the first place, I went among it to
see what dama e was already done, and found they had

spoiled a goo deal of it; but that as it was yet too
green for them, the loss was not so great, but that the
remainder was likely to be a good crop, if it could be
saved.

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked otf,
as if gone, I was no sooner out of their sight than they
dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I was
so provoked that I could not have patience to stay till
more came on, knowing that every grain they eat now,
was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the conse-
quence; so coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and
killed three of them. This was what I wished for; so
I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains for a
terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that this
should have such an etl'ect as it had; for the fowls not
only never came to the corn, but, in short, they forsook
all that part ot'the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about
the latter end of December, which was our second har-
vest ofthe ear. I reaped my corn.

I was sa ly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it
down: and all I could do was to make one as well as
I could, out of one of the broad-swords or cutlasses,
which l saved among the arms of the ship. However,
as my first crop was but small,I had no great dilliculty
to cut it. down : in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing 011' but the ears, and carried it away in a great
basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with
my hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I found
that out of my balt'peck of seed I had near two bushels
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley;
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was great encouragement to me; and
I foresaw that in time it would please God to supply

for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my
corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread ofit; and if how to make
it, yet I knew not how to bake it: these things being
added to my desire of having a good quantity of store,
and to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against
the next season; and in the mean time, to employ all
my study and hours of working to accomplish this great
work of providing myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon, viz. the strange
multitude of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this
one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
this to my daily discouragement, and was made more
sensible ofit every hour, even after I had got the first
handful ofseed-corn, which, as! have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no 3 ade
or shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered by ma 'ing
a wooden spade, as [observed before; but this did my
work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost me
a great many days to make it, et, for want of iron, it
not only wore out the sooner, ut made my work the
harder, and performed it much worse. However, this
I bore with, and was content to work it out with pa-
tience, and bear with the badness of the performance.
When the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was
forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy
hough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it. \Vhen it was
growing and grown, l have observed already how many
things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the chat},
and save it: then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and. an
oven to bake it; and yet all these things] did.w1th.-
out, as shall be observed; and the corn was an meatl-
mahle comfort and advantage to me: all this, as I said,
made every thing laborious and tedious to me, but that
there was no help for; neither was my time so. much
loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part
ofit was every day appointed to these works; and as I
resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly, by labour and invention, to fur-
nish myself with utensils preper for the performing all
the operations necessary for making corn lit for my u.~e.

But now I was to prepare more land ; for I had seed
enough "to sow above an acre ofground. Before I did
this, I had a week's work at least to make me a spade;
which, when it was done was but a sorry one indeed,
and very heavy, and required double labour to work
with it: however, I went through that, and sowed my
seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house
as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off
that wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that in one year's time I knew I should have
a quick or living hedge, that would want but little re-
pair. This work took me up full three months; be-
cause a great part of the time was in the wet season,
when I could not go abroad. \Vitldn doors, that is,
when it rained. and I could not go out, l fouml employ-
ment on the following occasions; always observing,
that while I was at Work, I diverted myself with talk--
ing to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly learned him to know his own name, and at last
to speak it out pretty loud, l'ol; which was the first
word I ever heard spoken in the island by any month
but my own. This therefore, was not my work, but
an assistant to my work; for now as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows: I had
long studied. by some means or other, to make my-
self some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted much,
but knew not where to come at them: however, con-
sidering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if
I could lind out any clay, I might botch up some such
pot as might, being dried in the sun, be hard and
strong enough to bear handling, and to hold any thing
that was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this
was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, 3w. which
was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as

large as I could, and tit only to stand like jars, to hold
what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this pastil; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made ;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the
clay not being stilf enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat ofthe sun,
being set out too hastily; and how many fell in pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried: and, in a word, how, after labouring hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things (I cannot call them jars), in about two
months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as
between the pot and the basket there was a little room
to spare, l stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw;
and these two pots being to stand always dry, i thought

would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, tlat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, and any thing my hand turned to; and the
heat ofthe sun baked them very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold liquids and bear the lire,
which none of these could do. It happened some time
after, making a pretty large tire for cooking my meat, '
when I went to put it out after 1 had done with it, I
found a broken piece ofone of my earthenware vessels
in the tire, burned as hard as a stone, and red as a tile.
1 was agreeably surprised to see it ; and said to myself,
that certainly they might be made to burn whole, if
they would, burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire so as to
make it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkius and two or three pots in a

VOL. I. I
pile, one upon another, and placed my lire-wood all
round it with a great heap of embers under them. I
plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside. and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the. inside red but:
quite through, and observed that they did not crack at
all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that heat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the vio-
lence ofthe heat, and would have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my tire gradually, till the
pots began to abate of the red colour; and watching
them all night that lmight not let the tire abatetoo fast,
in the morning I had three very good, I will not say
handsome pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as hard
burnt as could be desired; and one of them perfectly
glazed with the running ofthe sand.

' After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthemvare for my use; but i must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indif-
ferent, as any one may suppose, as I had no way of mak-
ing them but as the children make dirt pics, or as a
woman would make pics that never learned to raise
paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pet that
would bear the tire; and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold before I set one on the tire again,
with some water in it to boil me some meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made
some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good
as I would have had it been.

My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no
thought of arriving to that perfeetion ofart with one
pair of hands 'I'o supply this want I was at a great
loss; for, of all trades in the world, I was as perfectly
unqualified for a stone cutter, as for any whatever;
neither had I any tools to go about it with. lspent
many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut
hollow, and make tit for a mortar; but could find none
at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which 1
had no way to dig or cut out: nor indeed were the
rocks in the island of sulficient hardness, as they were
all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would neither
bear the weight ol'a heavy pestle, nor would break the
corn without filling it with sand : so, after a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, 1 gave it over, and
resolved to look out a great block of hard wood, which
I found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as
I had strength to stir, l rounded it, and formed it on
the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then, with
the help of tire, and infinite labour, made a hollow
place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes.
After this, I made a great heavy pestle, or heater, of
the wood called iron-wood; and thisl pre ared and
laid by against I had my next crop ofcorn, w ien l pro-

posedto myself to grind, or rather pound my corn into
meal, to make my bread.

My next ditliculty was to make a sieve or aearce, to
dress my meal, and to )art it from the bran and the
husk, without which I (lid not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most dillicult thing, even
but to think on; for] had nothing like the necessary
thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvass or stuff to
scarce the meal through. Herel was at a full step
for many months; nor did I really know what to do;
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags; I had
goats' hair, but neither knew how to weave it nor spin
it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work
it with: all the remedy i found for this was, at last re-
collecting I had among the seamen's clothes which
were saved out of the ship, some neckclolhs of calico
or muslin, with some pieces of these I made three small
sieves, prOper enough for the work; and thus I made
shift for some years: how 1 did afterwards I shall show
in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread whenl came to have
corn: for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself
much about it; but for an oven l was indeed puzzled.
At length I found out an expedient for that also, which
was this; I made some earthen vessels, very broad, but
not deep, that is to say, about two feet diameter, and not
above nine inches (leep: these I burned in the fire, as I
had done the other, and laid them by; and when I
wanted to bake,l made a great lire upon my hearth,
which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
making and burning also; but I should not call them
square.

"'lten the fire-wood was burned into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to
cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers. I set
down my loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the
earthen pot, drew the embers all round the outside of
the pot, to keep in and add to the beat; and thus, as
well as in the best even in the world, I baked my barley
loaves, and became, in a little time, a good )astry-cook
into the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and
puddings ofthe rice; but made no pies, as I had nothing
to put into them except the flesh of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here; for,
it is to he observed, in the intervals of these things, I
had my new harvest and husbandry tomanage: l reaped
my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I
could, and laid it up in the car, in my large baskets, till
I had time to rub it out; for I had no tloor to thrash it
on, or instrument to thrash it with.

And now, indeed. my stock of corn increasing, 1
really wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a
place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about twenty
bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch that
now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread
had been quite gone a great while: I resolved also to
see what quantity would be sutlicient for me a whole
year, and to sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, lfound lhatthe forty bushels of bar-
ley and rice were much more than I could consume in a
year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every
year that l sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity
would fully provide tne with bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of

land which I had seen from the other side of the island ;
and I was not without some secret wishes that I was on
shore there; t'ancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some
means ofescape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and that I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have rea-
son to think t'ar worscthan the lions and tigers of Africa;
thatifI once came in their power, I should run a hazard
of more than a thousand to one of being killed, and
perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the peOple
of the Caribbean coast were cannibals, or man-eaters,
and I knew, by the latitude, that I could not be far oll'
from that shore. Then supposing they were not canni-
bals, yet that they might kill me, as they had many
Euro eans who had fallen into their hands, even when
they ave been ten or twenty together; much more I,
who was but one, and could make little or no defence ;
all these things, I say, which I ought to have considered
well of, and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards,
took up none of my apprehensions at first; yet my head
rim mightily upon the thought of getting over to the
s tore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long--boat
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain: thenI thought I would go and look at our
ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon
the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were first
cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but
not quite; having turned, by the force. ol'the waves and
the winds, almost bottom upward, against a high ridge
of beachy rough sand; but no water about her, as be-
fore. If I had had hands to have retitled her, and to
have launched her into the water, the boat would have
done very well, and I might have gone back into the
Brazils with her easily enough ; but I might have fore-
seen, that I could no more turn her and set her upright
Upon her bottom, than I could remove the island ; how-
ever, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
could do; suggesting to myself, thatil'l could but turn
her down, and repair the damages she had received, she
woluld be a very good boat, and I might venture to sea
in ier.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless

toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave her up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to un-
dermine her, and so as to make her l'all down, setting
pieces ofrwood to thrust and guide her right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her up
again, or get under her, much less to move her forward
towards the water: so I was forced to give it over:

and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not possi-
ble to make mysclt'a canoe, or periagua, such as the na-
tives ol'those climates make, even without tools, or, as
I might say, without hands, ol'the trunk ofa great tree.
This I not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased
myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of
the Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering the
particular inconveniences which I lay under more than
the Indians did, viz. the want of hands to move it into
the water when it was made, a difliculty much harder
for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of
tools could be to them: for what could it avail me, if,

after I had chosen my tree, and with much trouble cut
it down, and might be able with my tools to hew and
dub the outside into the proper shape of a boat, and
burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so auto
make a boat of it ; if, after all this, I must leave it just
where I found it, and was not able to launch it into the
water.

One would imagine. if I had had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances while I was making
this boat, I should have immediately thought how I was
to get it into the sea: but my thoughts were so intent
upon my voyage in it that I never once considered how
I should get it oll'the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, tnorc easy for me to guide it over forty-live
miles of sea, than the forty-live fathoms of land, where
it lay, to set it afloat itt the water.

1 went to Work upon this boat the most like a feel
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was able to undertake it; not but that the
ditlicnlty of launching my boat came often into my head ;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this
foolish answer: Let tne first make it; I warrant I will
find some way or other to get it along when it is done.

This u as a most preposterous method ; but the eager-
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I
felled a cedar tree, and I question much whether Solo-
nton ever had such a one for the building of the Temple
of Jerusalem; it was lite feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump,,and four feet eleven in-
ches diameter at the end of twentytwo feet, where it,
lessened, and then parted into branches. It was not
without infinite labour that l felled this tree: 1 was
twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and
fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vast Spreading head of it, cut oll': after this, it cost me
a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to
something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim
upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months
more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour,
till [had brought it to be a very handsome peringna,120 urn AND Anvrzs'l'vues

and big enough to have 'arried six and twenty men.
and consequently big enough to have carried me and all
my ear-go.

\Vhen I had gone through this work. I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really mueh bigger
than ever I saw a canoe or periagua. that was made of
one tree, in my life. Many a wearv stroke it had cost,
you may be sure; aml there remained nothing but to
get it into the water: whieh, had I accomplished. I
make no question but I should have begun the maddest
voyage, aml the most unlikely to be performed, that ever
was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me ;
though they cost me inexpressihle labour too. It lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not more;
but the first ineomenienee was, it was up hill towards
the creek. \Vell. to take. away this diseouragetnent, I
resolved to dig into the surlitee ol' the earth, and so
make a deelivity : this I begun. and it eost me a prodi-
gious deal of pains; (but who grudge pains that have
their deliveranee in \ iew ?) when this was worked
tln-ough, and this ditlieulty'managed. it was still much
the same. for I could no more stir the eanoe than I could
the other boat. Then I measured the distance of
ground. and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to bring
the water up to the eanoe, seeing I could not bring the
canoe. down to the water. \Vell, I began this work;
and when I began to enter upon it. and calculate how
deep it was to be dug, how broad. how the stutl'was to
be thrown out, I found by the number of hands I had.
having none but my own. that it must have been ten or
twelve years before I could have gone through with it ;
for the shore lav so high, that at the upper end it must
have. been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt,
though with great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to
give over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw. though too
late,_the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and belore we judge rightly of our own strength to
go through with it.

In the middle ol'this work. I finished my fourth year
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort as before; for, by
a constant study and serious a iplication to the word of
God, and by the assistance of ins grace, I gained a dif-
ferent knowledge from what I had before; I enter-
tained ditl'erent notions of things; I looked now upon
the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do
with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires
about: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was
ever likely to have; I thought it looked, as we may
perha is look upon it hereatter, viz. as a place I had
ived in, but was come out of it; and well might i say,
as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is
a great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was here removed from all the
wickedness of the world; I had neither the lust of the
flesh, the lust of the e e, nor the pride of life. I had
nothing to covet, for Iliad all that I was now capable of
enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor; or, if I
pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the
whole country which I had possession of deg there were
no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute sovel
reignty or command with me: I might have raised ship
loadings of corn. but I had no use for it; so I lot as
little grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had
tortoise or turtle enough, but now and then one was as
much as I could put to any use; I had timber enough
to have built a fleet of ships ; and [had grapes enough
to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to
have loaded that fleet when it had been built. _

But all I could make use of was all that was valua-

ble: I had enough to eat and supply my wants, and
what was the rest to me? If I killed more tlesh than!
could eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sowed
more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled; the
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the ground ;
[could make no more use of them than for fuel, and
that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food:
In a word, the nature and experience of things dic-
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things
of this world are of no farther good to us than for our:
use; and that whatever we may heap up to give to
others, we enjoy only as much as we can use, and no1'22 LIFE AND anvanrnuas

more. The most covelous griping miser in the world
would have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if
he had been in my case; for l possessed infinitely more
than I knew what to do with. I had no room for de-
sire, exeept it was for things which I had not, and they
were comparatively but trilles, though indeed of great
use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of
money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds
sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorrv, useless stull'
lay; I had no manner of business for it; and I often
thought within myself. that I would have given a hand-
ful of it for a gross of tobacco pipes, or for a haudmill
to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for
sixpennyworth ofturnip and carrot seed from England,
or for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink.
As it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit
from it ; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons; and if I
had bad the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case--they had been of no manner of value to me
because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much more
comfortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat
down to meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand
of God's providence, which had thus spread my table in
the wilderness: I learned to look more upon the bright
side of my condition, and less upon the dark side, and
to consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted:
and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts that 1
cannot express them ; and which I take notice of here,
to put those discontented people in mind of it, who can-
not enjoy comfortably what God has given them, be-
cause they see and covet something that he has not
given them. All our discontents about what we want
appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulncss
for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
less would be so to any one that should fall into such
distress as mine was ; and this was, to compare m pre-
sent condition with what I at first expected it would be;
nay, with what it would certainly have been, ifthe good
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the
ship to be cast up near to the shore, where I not only
could come at her, but could bring what! got out of
her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; without
which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for de-

fenee, and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, | may say whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the most lively colours, how I must
have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship. I
could not have so much as got any food, except lish and
turtles; and that, as it was long before I found any of
them, I must have perished ; that I should have lived,
ifl had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any eontrivance, I had no
wa to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin
an the bowels, or to cut it up ; but must gnaw it with
my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like 'a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes: and this part also Icannot but recommend to
the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to
say, Is any aflliction like mine? Let them consider
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
their case might have been, if Providence had
thought tit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hepes: and this was comparing
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had
therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence.
I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well in-
structed by my father and mother; neither had they
been wanting to me, in their endeavours to infuse an
early religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my
duty, and what the nature and end of my being re-
quired of me. But, alas ! falling early into the seafar-
ing life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the

fear of God, though his terrors are alwa s before them ;

I say, falling early into the seafaring li e, and into sea-
faring company, all that little sense of religion which I
had entertained was laughed out of me by my mess-
mates; by a hardened desiising of dangers, and the
views of death, which grew liabitual to me ; by my long
absence from all manner of opportunities to converse
with any thing but what was like myself, or to hear
any thing that was good, or tending towards it.

So void was I of every thing that was good, or oftho
least sense of what I was. or was to be, that in the
greatest deliveranccs I enjoyed (such as my escape
from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese
master of tt ship, my being planted so We" in the llra-
zils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the
like), I never had once the words, Thank God. so much
as on my mind, or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest dis-
tress had I so much as a thought to pray to him, or so
much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon me! no, nor to
mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by,
and blaspheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as l have already observed, on account of my
wicked and hardened Iil'e past; and when I looked
about me, and considered what particular providenees

had attemled me since my eonung into this place, aml
how God had dealt beautifully with me.-- had not only
punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but
md so plentil'ully provided for me,---this gave me great
hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had yet mercies in store for me.

"'ith these retleetions,l worked my mind up, not
only to a resignation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
tllatakfulliess for my condition; and that I, who was yet.
a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not
the duepunishment of my sins; that I enjoy ed so many
mercies which I had no reason to have expected in that
place, that I ought never more. to repine at my condi-
tion. but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that
daily bread, which nothing but a cloud of wonders
could have brought; that I ought to consider I had
been fed by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding
Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles :,
and that I could hardly have named a place in thc unin-
habitable part of the world where 1 could have been
east more to my advantage; a place where. as i had no
soeiety, which was my aflliotion on one hand, so I found
no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to
threaten my life ; no venomous or poisonous creatures
which I might feed on to my hurt; no savages to mur-
der and devour me. In a word. as m life was a life of
sorrow one way, so it was a life 0 mercy another;
and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but
to make myself sensible of God's goodness to me, and

care over me In this condition; and after I did make a
just improvement ofthese things, I went away, and was

no tnoro sad.
I had now been here so long that many things which

I brought on shore. for my help were either quite gene,
or very much wasted, and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time,
all but a very little, which I eked out with water,a
little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, 1 made use of it to minute. down the days of the
month on which any remarkable thing happened to me:
and, first, by casting up times past, I remember that
there was a strange concurrence of days in the various
providences which hefell me, and which, if I had been
superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or for-
tunate, I might have had reason to haVe looked upon

with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same da that I broke

away from my father and my friends, am ran away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the satne day afterwards I
was taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a slave :
the same day of the vear that l escaped out of the
wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-
year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the
boat ; and the same day of the year I was born on, viz.
the 30th of September, that same day I had my life so
miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when l was
cast on shore in this island: so that my wicked life and
my solitary life began both on one day.

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of
my bread,l mean the biscuit which I brought out ofthe
ship: this I had husbauded to the last degree, allowmg
myself but nae cake of bread a day fur above a year ;
and yet I was quite without bread for near a year hefnru
I get any enrn of my nwu; and great reasml I had to
he tlnmkfnl that I had any at all. the getting it being,
as has been already ohserred. nest tn miraenlnus.

My elnthes, tnn, hegan tn deeay mightily: as to
linen. I had nnne fer a great while. exeept snme ehe--
queued shirts whieh I found in the ehests nf the other
seamen, and whieh l earefnlly preserved. heeanse many
times I enuld hear an elnthes nn hat a shirt ; and it was
a very great help to me that I had. among all the men's
elnthes nf the shi i. almnst three dnzen nf shirts. There
were alsn. indeed. several thiek wateh-enats nfthe s 'a-
men's whieh were left. hut they were ten hnt tn wear:
and thnngh it is true that the weather was sn vinlently
hit that there was an need ufelnthes. yet Iennld nnt gn
quite naked. nn, though I had been inelined tn it, whieh
I was net. nnr enuld l ahide the thnnght nf it. thnugh I
was all alnne. 'l'he reasnn why I enuld nnt gn quite
naked was. I enuld not hear the heat nf the sun sn well
when quite naked as with snmc elnthes nn; nay, the
very heat frequently hlistered my skin: whereas. with
a shirt nn, th ' air itself made some Inntinn. and whist-
ling under the shirt. was twnfnld ennler than withnut
it. Nu mnre enuld I ('H't' hring myself tn gn nut in
the heat nf the sun withnut a ('llll nr hat ; the heat of the
sun heating with sneh \ inlenee as it dues in that plaee,
\vnltld give me the lIead-aeh presently, liy darting sn
direetly u'um my head. withnut a eap nr hat nu. sn that
I enuld not hear it; whereas, if I put nn my hat, it.
wnuld presently gn away.

l'pnu these views. I hegan tn ennsider almnt putting
the few rags I had. whiehI ealled elnthes. intn snmn
nrder: I had worn nut all the waistenats I had. and my
business was new tn try if I enuld nnt makejaekets nut.
of the great wateh-enats that I had hy me, and with
such nther materials as I had ; sn I set to work a tailnr-
ing, nr rather. indeed. a hntehing. fnr I made most
pitenus wnrk nf it. llmverer,l made shift tn make
two nr three new waistenats. \\hieh I hoped wnuld
serre me a great while: as for hreeehes nr drawers, I
made hat a wry sorry shift indeed till afterwards.
Ihave mentioned. that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed. I mean four-footed ones; and I
had hung them up. stretched out with sticks. in the sun,
by which means some of them were so dry and hard
that they were tit for little, but othersl found very use-
ful. 'I'he lirst thing I made of these was a great on i for
my head. with the hair on the outside. to shoot of the
ram; and this I performed so well, that after this I
made me a suit of clothes wholly of tho skins. that is
to say, a waistcoat. and breeches open to the knees. and
both loose; for they were rather wanting to keep me
eool than warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that
they were wreteliedly made ; for ifI was a bad carpen-
ter, I was a worse tailor. However. they were such as
I made very good shift with; and when I was abroad.
if it happened to rain. the hair of my waistcoat and cap
beiug uppermost. l was kept very dry.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make an umbrella : I was indeed in great want of one,
and had a great mind to make one; I had seen them
made in the IIraails, where they were very useful in
the great heats which are there; nml I felt the heats
every jot us great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox: besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad. it was a most useful thing to me, as well for
the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at it,
aml was a great while before I could make any thing
likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the may,
I spoiled two or three before I made one to my min ;
but at last I made one that answered indill'erently well;
the main ditlieulty I found was to make it to let down :
I could make it spread. but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which would not do. However, at
last, as I said,l made one to answer. and covered it
with skins. the hair upwards, so that it cast olf the rain
like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so ell'ectuall
that I could walk out in the hottest ofthe weather wit A
greater advantage than I could before in the coolest;
and when I had no need of it, could close it, and carry
it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being en-1:8 LII-'I-Z AMI .\I)\'l-ZN'I'l'|IIIJS

IiIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII IIIIsiIIIIiIIg III IIIII \\'III III (.IIII, IIIIII
IIIIIIII'iIIII' IIIIIIII III "'IIIUII) ll'IIHI IIIII IIislIIIIIIII III his ["1"]-
IIIIIIIIII This IIIIIIIII IIII' liIII III-IIIIII IIIIIII sIIIIiIIIIIII . IIIII
II IIIIII l III-gun III IIIIu'rIII IIIII IIIIIIII III POI-"("ISIIIIOII, I
IIIIIIIIII IIsII IIIIsII'." IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIs IIIIIII'IIrsiIIg IIIIIIIIIIIIv

IIIIII IIII IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII'. IIIIII. :Is I IIU'H' I lll:I_\ IIIIII, \"IIII
II III II had IIiIIIsII II, III I |II IIII:IIiIIII.~I, IIIIs IIIII III- IIIIIII IIIIIII
IIIII IIIIIIIIsI II IIiIIIIIIII III III IIIIIII. III MH' iII III in IIIII IIIII'III '

I IIIIIIIIIII sIII III: III :IIIIIII IIIis, IIIr III II IIIIII's, :IIIII II \Irn-
III-"IIiIIIIII IIIiIIg IIIII IN' III II III IIIII, IIIII I IiIIIII IIII iII IIIII
.:IIIIII II (HIIM', iII IIIII NIIIII' lIIIsIIII'II and '3'"! II, iIIsI IIs IIII-
IIII'I'; IIIII IIIiIII IIIiIIgII I II as IIIIIIIIIIII II III. IIII .IIiIIIIs IIII'
III'IIIIII IIIIHHII III III: IIIIiII_:I IIII IIIII'III III IIIIII IiIIII, and I III'-
iIIg IIII lIIIhIIIS, III IIIIIII IIIIII II I :iIIIIIIs IIIIIII up inst
IIIIIII_I.III III IIIII'II .IIIIIIiII IIII III .IIIIIII 'I\ III IIIIII I'IIIIII s IIIIIII isiIIII
IIIIIIIIIII II: IIIII; I say, III-siIIIIs IIIis II I'_:II.II |:I|IIIIIII, and "III
II. My IIIII'SIIII III IIIIiIIII IIIII "'IIIII IIII gun, I IIIIII IIIIII
IIIIIIIIII', III III. 'IIII' IIIII II II:IIIIIII, IIIIiII II :II IIIhI I IiIIisIIIIII: 50
"MI III IIiII .rgiIII.' II II I:III:II In it III six III III \I'iIIII, IIIIII IIIIIII
IIIIII IIIIIIII, I IIIIIIIIgIII iI iIIIII IIIII III'IIIIII. :IIIIIIIsI IIIIII :I
IIIiIII. As I'III' IIIII IiIIsI, IIIIIIIII was so I'IIsIII' big. as I
IIIIIIIII iI \I'iIIIIIIII IIIIIIsiIIIII'iIIg IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII. :Is I IIIIgIII. III
IIII. IIIIW I sIIIIIIlII IIII :IIIIII III IIIIIIIIIII iI. su. III'VI'I' III-iug
IIIIIII III IH'IIIg' iI iIIIII IIIII II'IIIIIII, IIII III'iIIg IIIII II'IIIIII' III il,
I was IIIIIigIIII III IIII it "v WIII'I'I' it was, as II IIIIIIIIIIrIIII-
IIIIIII III II'III' II IIIII III IIII II in I IIIII IIII\I IiIIIII: iIIIlII III II, "It?
IIII\I IiIIII- IIIIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIII IIIII gu-I II IIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIII iI,
IIIIII II I" in :I IIIIIII II \II'IIIIIII I II IIIIIIII IIIII gIII I III II'IIIII r III N
III IIIII IIIss IIisIIInIIII IIIIIII. :Is I IIIIIII MIIII, IIIIIII IIIIII II IIIilII,
yet as I SII" iI IIIII IIIIIII IIiIIIIIIII III last. I IIIIIII r gm II iI
III IIII: IIIIII IIIIIIIgII I was III :III IIIII IIIIIIIIII :IIIIIIII iI. III-I I
I|C\'('l' IIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIII I:IIIIIIII'. iII IIUIM'S III IIIII'iIIg II IIIIIII III
"'0 (III III sII II :II IIIsI.

IIIIII'IIIII II , IIIIIII_I.III IIII' liIIIII IIII :IiIIIIIIII II III IiIIisIIII II. IIII
IIIII sizII III it was IIIII :II :III :IIIsWIIIIIIII: III IIIII IIIIsigII
II'IIIiI II I IIIIII in \'II' IIII WIH' II I IIIIIIIII IIIII IiIIsI, . I IIIIIIIII III
\"'Il|IlllIll"' IIIIIII III "III IIImI liImu, II III IIII it was above
IIIrIII IIIiIIIs IIII;II:III :IIIIIIIII_I|iiIgII, IIIII sIIIIIIIIIcss III "IV
ImaI :IssisIIIII III IIIII :III IIIIII III III:II III mg" and IIIIw l
IIIIIIIgIII IIII IIIIII'I: III N. .\s [had :I IIII II. IIII IIII\I IIII IsigII
""5 III IIIIIIII: II ('I'IIISI' IIIIIIIIII IIII! isInIIII' , IOI' as I IIIIII

III-III: IIII IIIII other side in one place, crossing, as I IIIII I!
alroad y described it. over the land. so the discoveries l
mado III that littlojournoy made me very eager to ace
other parts ot'tho coast; and nowl had a boat, I thought
of nothing but sailing round the island.

For this purpose. that I might do over' thing with
discretion and consideration. I titted up a ittlo mast in
my boat. and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces
of the ship's sails which lav in store. and of which I had
a great stock by me. Having titted my mast and sail.
and tried the boat. I found she would sail very well:
then I made little lockers. or boxes. at each end of my
boat. to put provisions. nm'essnries. anunuuition. 8w.
into. to be kept dry. either from rain or the spray ol'the
son; and a little, long. hollow place I cut in the inside
of the boat. whom I could lay my gun, making a tlap
to hang down over it. to keep It dry.

I tixod my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
toast, to stand over my head, and keep the beat ol' the
sun otl' mo. like no awning; and thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the son: but never went
far out. nor far from the little creek. At last. being
eager to view the circnmthreuco of my little kingdom.
I resolved upon to cruise; and accordingly I vic-
tunled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
loaves (cakes I should rather call them), of barley
bread. nu earthen pot t'nll ot'purched rice (a food I ate a
great deal of). a little bottle of rum, hall' a goat. and
powder and shot for killing more. and two large watch-
oonts. of those which, as I mentioned before. I had.
saved out of tho seameu's chests ; these I took. one to
lie upon. and the other to cover one in the night.

It was the 6th of November. in the sixth year of my
reign. or my captivity, which you please, that I set out
on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I ex-
pected ; for though the island itself was not very large,
yet when I came to the east side ol'it. I lound a great
ledge of rocks lio out about two leagues into the sea,
some above water. some under it ; and beyond that n
shoal of sand, lying dry hall' a league more. so that I
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the
point.

When first I discovered them. I was going to give

vol.. I. t.
over my enterprise. and come back again, not knowing
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above
all, doubting how I should et back again; so I came
to an anchor; for I had marlin me a kind of an anchor
with a piece of a broken grappling which I got out of
the ship.

Having secured my boat. I took my gun and went on
shore, climbing up on a bill, which seemed to overl0ok
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and re-
solved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,
l ereeived a strong, and indeed a most furious current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point ;
and I took the more notice of it, because I saw there
might be some danger, that when I came into it, I
might be earried out to sea by the strength of it, and
not be. able to make the island again : and, indeed, had
I not got tirst upon this hill, I believe it would have
been so ; for there was the same eurrent on the other side
the island, only that it set off at a farther distance, and
I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore ; so I had
nothing to do but to get out of the tirst current, and I
should presentl ' be in an eddy.

I lay here, liowever, two days, because the wind
blowing pretty fresh at I'LSJC. and that being just con-
trary to the said current, made a great breach of the
sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to

keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too
far off because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having
abated over-night, the sea was calm, and I ventured:
but I am a warning-pieee again to all rash and ignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when l
was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I
found myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice ofa mill ; it carried my boat along with
it with such violence that all I could do could not keep
her so much as on the edge ot'it; but I found it hurried
me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on
my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me,
and all I could do with my paddles signified nothing:
and now I began to givemyselfover for lost; for as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few
leagues distance they must join again, and then I was
irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possibility of
avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enough,
put of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tor-
toise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had
tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots ; but what
was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where,

to be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island,
for a thousand leagues at least?

And now I saw how easy it was for the prOVidcnce of
God to make even the most tniserable condition ot'man-
kind worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate,
solitar island, as the most pleasant place in the world ;
and nl the happiness tny heart could wish for was to be
but there again. I stretched out my hands to it, with
eager wishes: " 0 happy desert !" said I, " I shall
never see thee more. () miserable creature! whither
am I going !" Then I reproached myself with m un-
thankfnl temper, and how I had repined at my so itary
condition ; and now what would I give to be on shore
there again! Thus we never see the true state of our
condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of
it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for
so it appeared to me now to be), into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmat des )air of ever
recovering it again. However, I worked lard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the side
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
could; when about noon, as the sun passed the meri-
dian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face,
springing up from 8.8.13. This cheered my heart a
little, an especially when, in about half an hour more,
it blew a retty gentle gale. By this time I was got at
a frightfurdistance from the island, and had the least
cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone
another way too; for I had no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered towards
the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the
weather continuing clear, I applied myselfto get up my
mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to the
north as much as possible, to get out ofthe current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the
water some alteration of the current was near; for
where the current was so strong, the water was foul;
but perceiving the water clear, I found the current

abate; and presently I found to the. east, at about half
a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks: these

rocks I found caused the current to part again, and as
the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving
the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by
the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy,
which ran back again to the north-west, with a very
sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves
just going to murder them, or who have been in such-
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise
of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the
stream of this eddy; and the wind also fresheniug,
how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under
foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two
leagues more to the northward than the current which
carried me away at first: so that when I came near the
island, I found myself open to the northern shore ofit,
that is to say, the other end of the island, Opposite to
that which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
spent, and served me no farther. However, I found
that being between two great currents, viz. that on the
south side, which had hurried me away, and that on the
north, which lay about a league on the other side; I
say, between these two, in the wake of the island, I
found the water at least still, and running no way; and
having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on
steeringdirectl for the island, though not making such

fresh way as l id before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
a league of the island, I found the point of the rocks

which occasioned this disaster, stretching out, as is de-
scribed before, to the southward, and casting off the
current more southerl , had, of course, made another
eddy to the north ; an this I found very strong, but not
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due
west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh
gale, l stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west;
and, in about an hour, came within about a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.

\Vhen l was on shore, [ fell on my knees, and gave

God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by m boat; and re-
freshing myself with such things as had,l brought
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had

spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep.
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the
voyage.

was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and knew too
much of the case, to think of attempting it by the way
I went out; and what might be at the other side (I
mean the west side) I knew not, nor had 1 any mind
to run any more ventures; so I only resolved in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up

my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted
her. In about three miles, or thereahouts, coasting the

shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay, about a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivnlet
or brook, where I found a very convenient harbour for
my boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little

dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and
having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore, to
look about me, and see where l was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I traveled on foot to

that shore; so taking nothing out' of my boat but my134- LIFE asn .uwr: arenas

gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a
voyage us I had been n mo, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where. found every thing standing as I
left it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I
said before, my eountry house.

I got over the fenee, and laid me down in the shade:
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep,
but judge you, it' you can, that read my story, what a
surprise. I must be in, when I was awaked out of my
sleep by a y'oiee, ealling me by my name several times.
" Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe: poor Robin Crusoe!
""here are you, Robin Crusoe? \V here are you?
"'here have you been 9"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row-
ing, or paddling, as it is ealled, the first part of the day,
and with walking the latter part, that 1 did not wake
thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping and waiting,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me ; but as
the voiee continued to repeat " Robin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was
at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the at-
most eousteruation ; but no sooner were my eyes open,
but I saw my PM sitting on the top of the hedge; and
iuuuediately knew it was he that spoke to me ; for
just in sueh hemoaning language! had used to talk to
him, and teaeh him ; and he had learned it so perfectly
that he would sit upon my linger, and lay his bill close
to my face, and ery, " I'oor Robin Crusoe ! "'here are
you? \Vbere have you been? llow came you here ?"
and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. lt'irst,I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he should

just keep about the. place, and no where else: but as l
was well satisfied it eould be nobody but honest Pol, I
got over it : and holding out my hand, and calling him
by his name, Pol, the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, l'oor Robin Crusoe! and how did I come

here? and where had I been? just as if he had been
overjoyed to see me again: and so I carried him home
along with me.

I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days, to sit still. and re-
lleet upon the danger I had been in. I would have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of
the island; but [knew not how it was practicable to
get it about. As to the east side of the island, which I
had gone round, I knew well enough there was no ven-
turing that way ; my very heart would shrink, and my
very blood run chill, but to think of it; and as to the
other side of the island, I did not know how it might
be there ; but sup msing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on
the other, I might run the same risk of being driven
down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
been before of being carried away from it; so, with
these thoughts, I contented myself to be without any
boat, though it had been the product of so many mouths'
labour to make it, and of so many more to get it into
the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well
suppose ; and my thoughts being very much composed,
as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning my-
self to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I ived
really very happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe I could, upon occasion, have

made a very good carpenter, especially considering how
few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an uuex )ccted terfection
in my earthenware, and contrived well enoug I to make
them with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and
better; because I made things round and shapable,
which before were lilthy things indeed to look on.
But I think I was never more vein of my own perform-
once, or more joyful for any thing I found out. than for
my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it
was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was done, and
only burned red, like other earthenware, yet as it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceed-23f. Lira AND anvas'ruules

inglv eoml'orted with it, for I had been always used to
smoke: and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot
them at first, not thinking that there was tobaeeo in the
island ; and afterwards, when I searehed the ship again,
I could not eome at any pipes at all.

In my wiekerware also I improved much, and made
abuudauee of necessary baskets, as well as my inven-
tion showed me ; though not very handsome, yet they
were sueh as were very handy aml convenient for my
laying things up in, or t'etehing things home. For ex-
ample, if I killed a goat abroad, I eould hang it up in a
tree, tlay it, dress it. and eut it in pieees, and bring it
home in a basket ; and the like by a turtle: I eould out
it up, takeout the eggs. and a vieee or two of the tlesb.
wbieh was enough for me. am bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep
baskets were the reeeivers of my corn, wbieb I always
subbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it
in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated eonsider-
ably; this was a want which it was impossible for me.
to supply, and I began seriously to consider what I
must do when I slumld have no more powder; that is
to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as is
observed. in the third year of my being here, kept a
young kid. and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of
getting a lie-goat: but I could not by any means bring
it to pass. till my kid grew an old goat ; and as I eould
never find in my heart to kill her, she died at last of
mere age.

llut being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as, I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myselt'to study some. art to trap and snare the goats, to
see whether I eould not eateb some ol'them alive ; and
partieularly. I wanted a she-goat great with young.
For th' pur mse, I made snares to hamper them ; and I
do h we t :ey were more than ouee taken in them ;
but ' taekle was not good, for I had no wire, aml 1 al-
ways found them broken, and my bait devoured. At
length I resolved to try a pitfall : so I dug several large
pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed lmrdles,
of my own making too, with a great weight upon them ;
and several times I put ears of barley and dry rice,
without setting the trap; and I could easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I
could see the marks ct'their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found
thorn all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone: this
was very discouraging. However, I altered my traps;
and, not to trouble you with particulars, gomg one
morning to see my traps, l fouml in one of them a large
old lie-goat, and Ill one ofthe others three kids, a male
and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him ;
he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him ; that
is to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which
was what I wanted; I could have killed him, but that
was not my business, nor would it answer my end ; so
I even let him out. and he ran away as if he had been
frightened out of his wits. Ilut I did not then know
what I afterwards learned, that hunger will tame a lion.
If I had let him stay there three or four days without
food, and then have carried him some water to drink,
and then a little corn, he would baVe been as tame as
one ofthe kids; for they are mighty sagaciuus, tracta-
ble creatures, where they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time: then I went to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, I lied them with strings toge-
ther, and With some ditliculty brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; hut
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to he tame. And now I found that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goat's llesh when I had no
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, perhaps. I might have them about my
house like a fleck of sheep. But then it occurred to
me, that I must keep the lame from the wild, or else
they would always run wild when they grew up: and
the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to
keep them in so effectually that those within might not

break out, or those without break in. . .
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;1.33 Ltl-'li as n Al)\'ldeg.N'l'Ultlis

yet as I saw thorn was an IIIlsultIItl nooossity for doing
II, my tn'st work was to tind out a propor Iuoco of
ground, whoro thorn was likoly' to ho horhago tor thom

to oat. watvr l'or thom to drinls, and voror to hoop thom
from tho sun.

'l'hoso who undorstand snrh vnvlosurvs will think I
had wry littlo rontriyam-o. whvn I pitrhod upon a Illtlt't'
yory propvr for all thoso (living a plain opvn piano ot'
moadow land, or sarannah. as our pooplo onll II in tho
wostrru colouios). whivh had two or throo littlo drills
ot' t'rosh wator in it. and at ono ond was yory woody; I
say. thov will smilo at my I'm-coast. whon I shall toll
thom.I hogan by onrlosingithis piano of ground in such
a mannor. that my lmlgo or palo must haro horn at
Ioast two mih-s about. Nor was tho madnoss of it so
gn'at as to tho compass. for it'it was ton mih's about. I
was liko to haro limo c-nongh to do it in ; IHII I did not
vonsidor that my goats would ho as wild in so much
compass as if thoy had had tho wholo island. aml I

should haro so murh room to vhaso thmn in that I
should m-ror ratrh Iltt'ltl.

My ln-dgo was lwg'nn and varriod on. I lwlim'o about
titty yards. wlwn this thought om-urrml to mo; so I
prosontlv stoppod short. and. for tho tirst lwginning. I
rosolrod to vunloso a pin-o ol'ahont Ifitl yards in Iongth.
aml 100 yards in broad": ; which. as it Would maintain
as many as I should haro in any rvasonahlo timo, so, as
my stock increasml, I could add moro ground to my on-
vlosnro.

This was acting with somo prudenco. and I wont to
work with conrago. I was almnt throo months hodging
in tho tirst IIIt't'tl; aml. till I had dono it. I totlwrod tho
throo kids tn tho host part of it. and usod thom to food
as noar mo as possible, to mako thoin familiar; and
vory otlon I would go and carry tlwm sumo oars of bar-
loy, or a handful of rioo. and food thom out of my hand:
so that at'tor my om'lnsnro was tinishod. and I lot thom
looso. they would follow mo up and down, bloating
aftor mo for a handful ol'vorn.

'I'his answorod my ond: and in about a your and a
half I had a tlock ot' almnt twolrc goats. kids and all ;
and in two years mom, I had three and forty, lwsidcs
sovoral that I took and kilh-d for my food. Altor that
l enolosod tivo scvoral pieces of ground to food them
m, wnh littlo puns to drive thom into, to take them as

I wanted, and gates out of one picco of ground into
nnot hor.

llnt this was not all ', for now I not only had goat's
llcsh to food on Whoa I ploasod, but milk too; a thing
which, indced, in tho lmginning, I did not so much us
think of, and which, whcn it camo into In thoughts,
was roally an ngroenblo surprise: for now l set up my
dairy, and had somotimcs a gallon or two of milk in a
day. And as naturo, who givos snp dies of food to
cvory crcaturo, diotntcs ovon naturally now to audio nso
of it. so I, that had ncvor milkod a cow, much less a
goat, or soon huttvr or ohcoso mndo, only whon l was a
boy, attor a grout many ossavs and miscarriagos, made mo
hoth huttor and cheoso at last, and also salt (though I
found it partly mndo to my hand by tho host of tho sun
upon some of tho rocks of the son), and novor wanted it
attorwards. llow mcrcil'ullv can our Creator treat his
croaturos, ovon in thoso conditions in which thoy scotn-
ml to ho ovorwholmod in destruction! How can he
swm-ton tho hittorcst providoncos, and givo us causo to
praiso him for dnngoons aml prisons! \Vhat a tablo
was horo sprond t'or mo in a wlldcrnoss, whom I saw no-
thing, at lirst, but to porish for hnngor!

It would have made a stoic smilo to havo soon mo and
my littlo family sit down to dinner: thoro was my Ina-
josty, tho winco and lord of tho wholo island; I had
tho livos ol'all my subjects at my absolute command ; I
could hang, draw. give liberty, aml take it away ; and
no rolwls among all m suijcts. 'l'hon to ace how like!
a king l dincd too, at alone, attondod by my servants!
l'ol, as it' ho had boon my favourite, was the only per-
son pormittod to talk to mo. My dog, who was now
grown very old and crazy, and had found no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand;
aml two cats, ono on ono sido of tho table, and one on
tho other, ospecting now and thou a bit from my band,
as a mark ot'spcoial favour.

lint theso wcro not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for they wcro both of them dead, and had
hoon intorrod uoar my hahitatiou by my own hand ; hut
ono ot'thom having multiplied by I lxuow not what kind
of oroatnro. thoso woro two whioh I had presorvod
tamo ; whoroas tho rost run wild in tho woods. and ho-
oamo indood trouhlosomo to mo at last; for thoy would
ollon oomo into my houso. and plnndor mo too. till at
last I was ohligod to shoot thom. and did kill a grout
many; at longth thoy lot't mo.-----\\'ith this attondanoo.
and in this ploutit'nl manuor, I lirod; noithor oonld I
ho said to want any thing but sooioty: and of that, sumo
timo allor this. I was film to Intro loo tnttolt.

I was somothing impatiout. as I ltaro ohsort'od, to
ltat'o tho nso ol' my hoat. though rory loath to run any
tnoro hazards; and thorol'oro sontotimos I sat oontrir-
in: ways to got hor ahont tho island. and at othor limos
I sat Inysoll' down oontontod ouongh without hor. Ilut
I had a strango uuousiuoss in my mind to go down to tho
[mint ot' the island. whoro. as I haro said. in uiy last
ramhlo. I wont up tho hill to soo how tho shoro lay. and
how tho ourront sot. that I might soo what I had to do:
this iuolination inrroasod upon mo ovory day. and at
longth I I'osolrod to trawl thithor hy laud. following
Ilto odg'o ul' llto sltoro. I did so; lmt ltutl uny Ullt' in
England boon to moot such a man as I was, it must
oithor haro t'rightonod him. or raisrd a grout doal oI'
laughtor : and as I troqiiotltly stood still to look at my-
soll'. I oould not hut smilo at tho notion of my travoliug
through Yorkshiro. with such an ocluipago. and in surh
a dross. Ilo ploasod to tako n skutoh of my figuro, as
follows :

I had a grout. high. sha wloss rap, mado of a goat's
skin. with a flap hanging down holnnd, as woll to hoop
tho sun from mo as to shoot tho rain oil from running
into my nook: nothing hoiug so hurtful in those cli-
matos as tho rain upon tho. llosh. undor tho olothos.

I had a short jaokot of goat's skin, tho skirts coming
down to ahont tho middlo of tho thighs. and a pair of
opon-knood hrooohos of tho sumo; tho hrooohos woro
mado of tho skin of an old Ito-goat, whoso hair hung
down suoh a longth on oithor sido, that. liko pantalouns.
it roaohod to tho middlo of my logs; stockings and
shoos I had nono, hut had mado mo a pair of some-
things. I scarce know what to call them. like husltins,
to tlap over my legs, and Iaoo on oitbor side lilm spat-
tordashcs: but ot' a most barbarous shape, as indeed
wero all the rcst of my olothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's slain dried. which I
drow together with two thongs ol' the same. instead of
bncltlos; and in a kind of a frog on either side of this,
instead of a sword and dagger, hung a littlo saw and a
liatchct ; one on one side. and ono on tho other. I had
another belt. not so broad. and fastened in the same
manner. which hung over my shoulder: and at. tho end

of it, under my lcll arm. hung two ionohes, both made
of goat's skin too ; in one of which hang my powder. in
tho other my shot. At my bank I carried my baskot,
and on my shoulder my gun ; and orcr my head a great.
clumsy. ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which. aller all,
was the most nocossar thing I had about me, next to
my gun. As for my limo, the oolour of it was really
not so mulattoliko as ono might expect from a man not
at all careful of it. and living within nine or ten degrees
of the cquinos. My board I had once sull'erod to grow
till it was about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had
both scissars and razors sullicieut, I had cut it prett
short. cxoept what grow on my in ipcr lip, which I
had trimmed into a largo )IIII' of Ma iouietan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn hy some 'I'urks at Sallee; for
tho Moors did not wear such. though the Turks did:
of those mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they
were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but they
were of a length and shape monstrous enough. and such
as, in England, would have passed for frightful.

Ilut all this is by tho by; for, as to my figure. I had
so ow to obsorvo me that it was of no manner ot'conse-
quonoo ; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
tiguro I went my now journey. and was out live or six
clays. I traveled tirst along the seashore, directly to
the place where I tirst brought my boat to an allclwr. to
get upon tho rocks; and having no boat now to tako
rare of. I went over the land. a nearer way, to tho same
height that I was upon before; when looking forward
to the mint ot' the'rocks which lay out, and which I was
oblige to double with my boat, as is said above, I wasIii-'3 LIFE AND ADVKN'I'UIU'ZS

sun-prism! to son tho ttt'tt all smooth and quiet; no riIi-
Iiling. no motion, no current, any tttttt't' thorn than in
any tIIltt't' placvs. I was at a strango loss to understand
this. and i'vsnlynd to spend somv timt' in tho olisvrving'
it, to saw it' nothing- from tho si-ts of tho tido had occa-
sionvd it; hut I was u'vsvntly onuyinvvd how it was,
viz. that tho tidn nt'vh D si'lting from tho wvst. and join-
ing with tho t'ttt't't'ttl nt'wators from snmo g'rvat river on
tho shnrn. must hn thn nn'asinn of this t'tlt't't'tll ; aml
that according as tho wind hlnw morn I'ni'cihly from tho
wvst. or from tho north, this ('III'I'C'III oamn m'arnr. nt'
wont t'arthnr from tho tdtnt't'; for waiting thvrvahnuts
till owning", I wont up tn thn rock again. and thou tho
tidn nt'vlih living madv, I plainly saw thn vurrvnt again
as th'nrn, only that it ran lin'thor nll'. lining twar half a
Ioagun from tho shnrn; whvrvas in my vasn. it sat olnsn
upon thn shot-n. aml hurrivd mo and my nation along
with it; whivh, at unotlu-r timv, it would not havo
dono.

'I'his nhsvryatinn vom-invvd mo. that I had nothing tn
do hut tn nhsvryn thn t'Itlttttg' aml thn lhm iug of tho tido.
and I might \'t't'_\' vasily hring' my hnat ahnnt tho island
again: hut win-n I Iii-gun tn think of putting it in lit-an-
tu-v. I had such a lt'l'l'tH' upon my spirits. at tho romnm-
lnanvo of tho daugvr I had horn in, that I could not
think of it again with any pativncn; hut. on tho onu-
trary. I took up anothvr rvsnlutinu. \Vltlt'll was morn
satin though mnro lahnrinus; and this was. that I would
huild, or rathvr malm mo uunthvr pnriagua or oanno;

and so have mm for one side of tho island. and nno for
tho ntlu'r.

You arv to undvrstand. that now I had. as I may vall
it. th plantations in tho island; onto. my littln tnt'titinu-
tinn or tvnt, with tho wall ahnnt it. tllltlt'l' tho rock.
with tho cam lwhiud mo. whivh. by this timv. I had on-
larg'cd intn svvvral apartments or oavvs. nun within ano-
thm'. "no of thvso. whirh was tho driest and largest.

and had a door nut lwynnd my wall or tbrtilicatiou. that.
is tn say. ln'ynud whm-v my wall joinvd to tho rot'k. was

all tilh-d up with tho largo varthva pots, of which I have
givvu an amount, and with tnurtonn or Iit'tnon grout
haslwts. Wlttt'll would hnhl tivn or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provisions. especially my
eorn. some in the ear. eat 00' short from the straw. and
the other rubbed out with my band.

As for my wall. made, as before. with long stakes or
piles. those piles grow all like trees. and were by this
time grown so big. and spread so very much. that there
was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine. but a little farther within
the land. aml upon lmver ground. lay my two pieces of
corn land. which I kept duly cultivated and sowed. and
which duly vieldcd me their harvest in its season: and
whenever Iliad oeeasion for more. corn. I had more land
adjoining as lit as that.

llesides this. I had my country seat; and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also: for. first. I had my
little bower. as I called it. whieb I kept in repair; that
is to sav. I kept the hedge which eneireled it in con-

stantly litted up to its usual he: ht. the ladder standing
always in the inside: I kept tiio trees. which at tirst
were no more than my stakes, but were now grown
very tirm and tall. always out so that they might spread
and grow thick and wild. and make the more agreeable
shade; which they did elI'ectnally to my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing. being a
piece of a sail spread over poles. set up for that purpose.
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this I had made me a squab or oouch.witb the skins
of the creatures I had killed. and with other soft things ;
and a blanket laid on them. such as belonged to our sea-
hedding. which I had suited. and a great watch-coat
to cover me; and here. whenever I had occasion to
be absent from my ehiet'scat. I took up my country ha-
bitation.

Adjoining to this I had in enclosures for my cattle.
that is to say. my goats; an as I had taken an Incon-
eeirable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground.
I was so anxious to see it kept entire. lest tbegoats
should break through. that I never left oll'. till, Will] in-
tiaite labour. I had stuck the outside ot the hedge so

full ot' small stakes, and so near to one another, that it
was rather a pale than a hedge, and tlfere was scarce
room to put a hand through between them; which
afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the nest rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a
wall.----indeed, stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared ne-
cessary for my comfortable support; for I considered
the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my
hand would be a living magazine of flesh. milk, butter,
and cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it
were to be forty years; and that keeping them in my
reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my 'nclo-
sures to such a degree, that I might be sure of 'ceping
them together; which, by this method, indeed, I so ef-
fectually secured, that when these little stakes began to
grow, I had planted them so very thick, that I was
forced to pull some ofthem up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as
the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet:
and indeed they were not only agreeable, but medici-
nal, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last
degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for
I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all things
about, or belonging to her, in very good order: some-
times I went ont in her to divert myself, but no more
hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above
a stone's east or two from the shore, l was so apprehen-
sive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by
the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now
I come to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to
be seen in the sand. Istood like one thumlerstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
 

round me, butI could hear nothing, nor see any thing;
1 went up to a rising ground, to look farther; I went
up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one ; I
could see no other impression but that one. I went to
it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a foot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot: how it: came thither I knew
not, nor could I in the least imagine: but, after innu-
'merable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly con-
fused and out of myself, 1 came home to my fortifica-
tion, not feeling, as we say, the ground 1 went on, but
terrified to the last degree: looking behind me at every
two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and
fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor
is it possible to describe how many various shapes my
ati'righted imagination represented things tome in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unaccountable whimseys came into my
thoughts by the way. .
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it
ever after this,) I tled into it like one pursued; whe
ther I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or
went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called a
door,[ cannot remember; no, nor could I remember
the next morning: for never frightened hare fled to
cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I

to this retreat.
VOL. 1. Lllti ltl'l-T AND AIH'FN'I't'llt-'d

I .'tlt'Ill nunu that night; thu tiu'thvr l was t'i'um thu
<<N'i'nxiun ut' mv fright. thu gruntvr my in iprvlwnniunn
\\'t'tt'; whivh i'i uumvthing vuntrm'y tu tin nutnru ut'
unvh things. and mpm'inlly tu thu nunnl pi'artivu ut' all
rrvntuws in t'rin'; hnt l thtt nu mnlmrrnnnml with my
uwu frightful iilvnn ul' tho thing that l t'urmml nuthing
hut dismal inmgimitiunu tu myuvlt'. mun thungh l was
now it great way utl' it. Sunwtimrsl timviml it mnut
hu thu ltm-il. mnl i'vmmn juinml in with mu nlmn this
uumumitiun; t'ur huw nhunhl any uthm' thing in hnnmn
shape uumu intu thu plm-u' \Vlwro was thu vmuwl tlmt
hrunght thvm ' \tht nnn'im wvrv thvi'u <<if any uthm-
fuutstv m? Ami huw was it pusuihlu a num nhuuhl
rumul n-i-u.' Ilnt thvn tu think that Satan nhunhl tnlw
hnnmn nhiiliu npun him in Nllt'lt n ll'lu'l" whvru tlwru
vunhl hu nu minim-r ut' uvvmiiun l'ui' it. but tu Imu'u thu
print <<if his t'uut lwhiml him. nml tlmt m-vn t'ur nu pur-
pusu tun. t'ur hv t'tllIlt' nut hu suru I .shunlil sum it. this
"'th tttt nnmwmrnt thn uthvr way. I i-unsnh'rmt that
thu llmil might hmv l'unnil unt uhumhmvv ut' uthm'
way- In hmu turritiml mu than thin ut' thu singlv what
<<if n l'uut; thnt IN! I li\'t'tl ilnitu un thu Ulllt'l' hitlt' u' thu
inhnnl. hu wunld nmm' llth' hrvn nu aimlvlv nit tu lvin'u
it ninth in n lilm'u whvru it was ti-n thunsnml tu unv
whvthvr I Illtlllltl <<WM 801' it ur nut, nml in tho sunnl tuu,
which thu llt'hl sni'gu ul' thu mm. ttlmtl it high wind.
wunlil lmvu ilvliivml untin'ly: till this wrmml im-umois
tnnt with thu thing its" It'. mnl with null thv ttulltltttt wu
nannllv vntmtuin ut'thu unhtilty ul'thu thwil.

Ahumhmvu ut' nnvh things it! thmw nxsiatc-il tu nrguu
mu uut <<if all npprvhvnsiuim <<if its hriug' thu lhwil; uml
l prim-titty runvlmh-il tlwn, that it must lw sumu tttttt'u
ilnugm'uns vrvntm'v. viz. that it must hu numu ut' thu
Mingus uf thu mniu himl ui-m' ng'ninxt mu. whu hml
"'ulnlm'ml nut tu sun in tlwir rnnm-s. lllltl vithrr ilt'iu'n
hy thu rnrrvnts m' h_\- t'nttlt'ttt'_\' wimls. hml nnnlv thv
iahnnl. nml hml ht-rn un nhurv. hut worn gunn away
again to "Mt; living it: hmth, pvt'lntps. tu hnvv utityml in
this <<Insulate island M I wuuhl hnvu hvrn tu hiu-u hml
thvm.

"'hilu thusv rutlvvtiunu "'t'l't' rulling ulmn my miml.
l w as wry thnnht'ul in my thunghtutlmt I wait an happyoi: aomanoa cauuou. M7

aa not to ho thoroahouta at that timo. or that they did
not sum my hoat. hy whioh thoy would havo oouoludod
that aomo iuhahitauta had boon to tho plaoo. aud por-
hapa havo aoarohod t'arthm- for mo; thou torrthlo
thouxlita ravlmd my imagination about thoir havlug
found my boat. and that thoro worn pooplo hero; and
that it' no. I almuld oortaiuly havo thom oomo agaiu la
grvator uumhora. aud dovour mo; that it' it should hap-
lmu no that thov ahould uot tlud mo. yot thoy would that
my ouoloaui-o. doatroy all my ooru. aud carry away all
my lltN'lt ot' tamo goata, and l ahould porlah at laat for
mom waut.

'I'hua my four hauishod all my roligioua ltopo. all that
t'ormnr ooutidouoo in God. Wltlt'll waa t'ouudod upou
aooh woudm-t'ul oxlwrimwo as I had had of hia good-
uosa ; an it' ho that had t'vd mo hy miraolo hitlwrto oottld
uot prawrvo. ln- hia liowor, tho pt'twlalotl which ltt' had
mado t'or mo lw his gooduoaa. l ropi'oacltod myaoll~
with my laziuoss. that would not aow auy moro ooru
mm your than would just aorvo mo till tho twat aoaaoa.
as it' no nt't'ltlt'ttt would iutm-vouo to provvut mv enjoy-
ing tho orop that was upon tho ground; and thta l
thought an just a I'oln'oot' that l roaolvod l'ur tho l'atum
tn haso two or throo yi'ara' ooru lwl'orohaud; at) that.
whatovm' might oomo. I might not poiiah for want of
lm'ad.

llow atraugo a olwquor-mu'k of l'rovidouoo la tho
lil'o ot' maul and by what aovrot dill'orout aprlttg'a am
tho all'ootioua hurriml ahout. aa dlll'Orout oiroumatattcva
prosoot! 'I'o-day wo Im-o what to-morrow we hate; to-
day wo aooli what to-morrow wo ahua; to-day Wu do-
airo what to-morrow wo l'var. tlay. ovou tromhlo at tho
approhomioua ot'; this was oxoumlitlod iu mo. at thia
timo. iu tho moat livoly mauaor imagiuahlo; for l.
whom ouly allliotiou thtt that l aoouwd hauiahod from
human utwioty. that l waa alouo. oiroumaorihod by tho
houudloaa oovau. out oll' from mauhiud. aud ooudomuod
to what I oallod ailout lilo; that l waa as oao whom
lloavou tlumght not worthy to ho uumhorvd among tho
living. or to ammar among tho mat of hia oroaturca;
that to havo won one of my own alwoioa would havo
avoowd to mo a raining mu from death to lil'v, and thoHt) run-z AND AIH'I'ZN'l'lHH-Is

groutost lilossing that IIoaron itsolt'. nost to tho supromo
hlossing ot'salvation. oould hostow: I say. that I should
now tromhlo at tho vory approhonsions ot'sooing a man,
and was roady to sink into tho ground at but tho sha-
dow or silont npponrauoo ot' a man's having.r sot his foot
in tho island.

Such is tho nuowu stuto of human lit'o; and it af-
t'ordod mo a grout many onrions spoonlntions ul'torwards.
whon I had a little room'orod my tirst snrpriso. I on!!-
sidorod that this was tho station of lit'o tho inlinitoly
\\ iso and Hood I'I'ovidonoo ot' (lod had dotorminod for
mo; that as I oonld not torosoo whnt tho onds ot'divino
wisdolu might ho in all this. so I was not to disputo his
sin'orrignty. who. as I was his oroaturo. had an un-
douhtod right. by oroation. to govorn and disposo ol'mo
nhsolntoly as ho thought tit ; and who, as I was a cron-
tnro that had otl'ondvd him. had likowiso a judicial
right to oondomn mo to what pnnishmont ho thought
lit; and that it was my part to submit to hoar his indig-
nation. hooanso I had sinnod against him. I thon ro-
th-otod. that. as God. who was not only rightoous. hut
omnipotont. had thought tit thus to mnish and atlliot
mo. so ho was alilo to dolivor mo; t tlll it' ho did not
think tit to do so. it was my nnqnostionml duty to rosigu
Inysolt' ahsolntoly nml ontiroly to his will; and. on tho
othor hand, it was my duty also to hopo in him. pray to
him. and qniotlr to attond tho diotatosand dirootions of
his daily priwiilonoo.

'l'hoso thoughts took mo up many hours. days. nav, I
may say, Works and months; amt ono pnrtioulnr otl'oot
of my oogitntions on this oooasion I onnnot omit: Ono
morning onrly. lying in my bod. and filled with
thoughts about my dnngor from tho appoaranoos ot'
savagosJ found it dismuuposod mo rory mnrh; upon
which thoso words of tho Soriptnro rnmo into my
thoughtS. " ('nll upon mo ill tho day of tronhlo, and I
will dolivor thoo. and thou shalt glorify mo." Upon this.
risin v ohoort'ullv out of my hod. my hoart was not only
oomlortod, I)lll.l was gnidod and onoonrngod to may
oarnostly to God for dolivornnoo: when I had 10""
praying, I took up my llihlo. and oponing it to road, tho
first words that prcsontod to mo woro, " "'nit on tho
Lord. and he of good ehoer. and he shall strengthen thy
heart; wait, I say, on tho Lord." It is impossible to
es iress tho ooml'ort this gave me. In answer, I thank-
t'ul _v laid down tho hook, and was no more sad, at least
on that oeeasion.

In tho middle of those eogitations. apprehensions,
and rrtloetions, it came into my thoughts one day, that
all this might he a mere ehimorn of my own. and that this
tool might he the print of my own l'oot, when [came
on shore from my bout: this eheered mo np a little too,
and I began to iorsnndo myself it was all a delusion;
that it was not ring else but my own feet; and why
might I not room that way from tho heat, as well as I
was going that way to tho hoat.' Again, I considered
also, that I could by no means tell, for eertain, where I
had trod, and where I had not; and that it'. at last. this
was only the print of my own foot, I had played tho
part of those tools who try to make stories of speotres
and apparitions, and then are frightened at them more
than any body.

Now'l began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again. for I had not stirred out of my castle 'or three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provisions;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some bar-
ley-cakes and water: then I know that my goals wanted
to ho milked too, whieh usually was my evening diver-
sion; and the poor creatures were in rreat pain and
inconvenience for want of it; and, im eed, it almost
spoiled some of them. and almost dried up their milk.
luneournging myself, therefore, with the belief that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and
that I might be trnl said to start at my own shadow, I

began to go ahroar again. and went to my country-
houso to milk my [look : but to see with what fear I
went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I
was ready, every now and then. to lay down my basket,
and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thou ht l was haunted with an evil eonseienee, or that
I he been latelv most terribly frightened; and so, in-
deed,l had. llowevor, as I went down thus two or
thme (la a, and having seen nothing, I began to he a
little be der, and to think there was really nothing in it
but my own imagination ; but I oould not pt'rsuado my-
solt' t'ully of this till I should go down to the show
again. and son this print ot' a foot. and moasuro it by
my own. and sro it' tboro was any similitudo or titnoss.
that I might bo assurod it was tny own t'oot: httt Whoa
I oamo to tho plaoo lirst. it appoarod ovidoutly to mo.
that whoa I laid up my boat. I oould not possibly ho on
show any whoro thoroahouts: sooomlly. "hon I mum to
moasttro tlto mark with my own foot. I found any tool
not so largo by a groat tIt'ttl. Iloth tltoso things lillod
my bond with now imaginations. and gavo mo tho vapours
again to tho highost dogroo. so that I shook with oold
liko ono in an agtto; aml I wont homo again, tillod with
tho boliot' that somo man or mott had boon on shoro
thoro; or. in short. that tho island was inhabitod. aml I
might bo surprisod hotin'o I was awaro; aml what
t'ttut'so to talxo for my st't'ttt'ity I I\IIt'W not.

(I what ridioulous rosolutions mon tako whon pos-
sossod with four! It doprit'os thotn of tho uso ot' thoso
moans which roason otlors t'or tltoir I'oliol'. 'I'ho first
thing I proposod to mysoll' was. to throw down my on-
t'losuros, aml turn all my tattto oattlo wild into tho
woods. lost tho ('Itt'IIH' should timl thom. and thou t'ro-
qttoltt tho island in prospoot of tho samo or tho lilm
booty: thon to tho simplo thing of dig ring tip my two
oorn tiolds. lost thoy should find suoh a grain thoro. and
still ho promptod to l'rotptont tho island : tbott to domo-
Iislt my howor and tout. that thoy might not soo any yos-
tigos ot' habitation. amt ho protnptod to look t'arthor. in
t'rdor to tind out tho poi-sons inhabiting.

'I'hoso wrro tho sllhjt'ot of tho tirst night's oogitations
al'tor I was oomo homo again. whilo tho approhonsions
\\'ItIt'I| had so ovorrun my mind woro t'rosh upon mo,
and my hoad was full of vapours as ahovo. 'I'Itus tom
of dangor is ton thousand timos moro torrit'ying than
dangor itsolt'. whon apparout to tho oyos; and wo tind
tho hurdon ot' ansioty groator. by muoh, than tho oyil
whioh wo aro anxious about : and, whioh was worso than
all this. I had not that t'oliot' itt this trouble from tho
rosignation I used to praotiso. that I bo NNI to havo. I
lookod. I thought. lilto Saul. who oompIaim-d not only
that tho I'hilistinos woro upon hint, but that God had
forsaken him; for I did not now take due ways to oom-
poso my mind. by crying to (led in my distress, and
resting upon his providence. as I had done before, for
my det'onee and deliverance; whieh. if I had done. I
had at least been more eheert'ully supported under this
now surprise, and perhaps carried through it with more
resolution.
This eonl'usion of my thoughts kept me awake all
night; but in tho morning I fell asleep; and having,
by tho amusement of my mind. been. as it were, tired.
and my spirits exhausted. I slept very soundly. and
waked much better composed than I had ever been he-
t'oro. And now I began to think sedately; and. upon
tho utmost debate with myself. I concluded that this
island. whieh was so exceedingly pleasant. fruitful. and
no farther from the main land than as I had seen. was not
so entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that although
there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot,
yet that there might sometimes eome boats oil from the
shore, who, either with design. or perhaps never but
when they were driven by oross winds. might come to
this plane ; that I had lived here tilleen years now, and
had not met with tho least shadow or Iigure of any peo-
ple yot ; and that it' at any time they should be driven
here. it was probable they went away again as soon as
over they could, seeing they had never thought lit to Iix
here upon any oeeasion ; that the most I could suggest
any danger from, was from any easnal accidental land-
ing of straggling people from the main. who. as it was
likely. it' they were driven hither. were here against
their wills. so they made no stay here. but went otI'
again with all possible speed ; seldom staying one
Inght on shore. lest they should not have the help of
the tides and daylight back again; and that. there ore.
I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat.

in ease I should see any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave

so large as to bring a door through again. whieh door,
as I said. came out beyond where my l'ortilieattou join-
ed to the rook: upon maturely mmsidering this. there-
fore, I resolved to draw me aseeond l'ortilieation, in1.32 LIFE AND .uwusTL'tucs

the same. manner ot~ a semieirele, at a distanee from my
wall, just where I had planted a dnuhlo row of trees
ahout twelve years hel'ore, of which I made mention:
these. trees having heeu planted so thiek before, they
wanted but few piles to ho driven between them, that
they might he thteker and stronger. and "iv wall would
he soon tiuished. So that I had now a donhle wall; and
my outer wall was thiekeued with pieees ol'timher. old
oahles, and every thing I eould think of, to make it
strong: having in it seven little holes. about as hig as I
might put my arm out at. In the inside ol'this, l thiek-
eued my wall to ahout ten feet thiek, with eontinually
hriuging earth out of my care, and layitl " it at the foot
of the wall, and walking upon it; aml tln'ongh the
seven holes I eontrived to plant the muskets. ol' whieh
I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the
ship; these I planted like my eaunou, and titted them
into frames. t lat held them like a earriage. so that I
could tire all the seven guns in two minutes'time, this
wall I was many a weary month in linishing, and yet
never thought mysell'sale till it was done.

"'heu this was done. I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great length every way. as full with
stakes or stieks of tho osierlilto wood, whieh I found
so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomueh,
that l heliovol might set in near twenty thousand of
them, leaving a pretty large spaeo between them and
my wall. that I might have room to see an enemv. and
they might have no shelter from the -ouug trees, it' they
attempted to approaeh my outer wall.

Thus, in two years' time. I had a thick grove; and
in live or six years' time I had a wood hefore my dwel-
ling, growing so monstrous thick and strong that it
was indeed perl'eetly impassable; and no men. of what
kind soever. would ever imagine that there was any
thing heyond it, mueh less a habitation. As for the
way which I proposed to myselfto go in and out (for I
left an avenue), it was hy setting two ladders, one to a -
iart ot'the roek whieh was low. and then hroko in, and
left room to plaeo another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could
come down to me without doing himself mischief; and
if they had come down, they were still on tho outside
of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and It will be seen,
at length. that they were not altogether without just
reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more
than mv mere fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other all'airs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats; they were not only a ready
supply tome on every occasion, and began to be suf-
lieient for me, without the expense of powder and shot,
but also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild
ones; and l was loath to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up over again.

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to n'eserve them: one was, to
timl another convenient place to dig a cave under

ground, and to drive them into it every night ; and the
other was, to enclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed asl
could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place; so that if anv disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again
with little trouble and time: and this, though it would
require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was
the most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent smne time to liml out the most
retired parts of the island; and l pitched upon one,
which was as private, indeed, as my heart could .wish
for: it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed,
I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eastern part of the island.
Here I found a clear iieee of land, near three acres, so
surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure
by nature ; at least it did not want near so much labour
to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had

worked so hard at. . . .
I immediately went to work with this piece of

ground, and in less than a month's time I had so fencedtn-t LIFE asn anyiau'ruui-zs

it round that my tlook. or hord. oall it whioh you
ilcuso. who woro not so wild now as at tirst thoy might
IM' supposod to ho, woro woll onough soonrod in it : so,
without any t'urthor dolay. I romorod ton young aho
goats, and two ho goats. to this piooo; and whon thoy
woro thoro. I oontinuod to porli'ot tho l'onoo. till I had
mudo it as soonro as tho othor; whioh, hnworor. I did
at moro loisnro, and it took mo up moro timo hy u grout
doal. All this lahour I was at tho osponso ot', pnroly
from my npprohonsions on tho uooonnt of tho print of
a man's t'oot wliioh I had soon ; for. as rot. I no\ or saw
any human oroaturo mnno noar tho island; and I had
now lirod two yours undor this unousinoss. whioh, in-
dood. mado my lilo mnoh loss oomliirtahlo than it was
hol'oro, as may ho woll imaginod by any who know
what it is to liro. in tho onus-taut snai'o of tho four of
man. And this I must ohsorro. with griol'too. that tho
disoomposuro of my mind had too grout improssions
also upon tho roligious part of my thoughts: for tho
droad and torror ol' fallingr into tho hands of savagos
and oannihals lay so upon my spirits that I soldom
l'ound mysolt' in a duo tompor for applioation to my
lllalwr. at loast not with tho sodnto oalmnoss and ro--
signation ot' soul whioli I was wont to do: I ruthor
prayod to God as nndor gy'ut allliotion and prossnro of
mind, surroundod with danger. and in ospootation orory
night of hoing murdorod and dovourod hot'oro morning;
and I must tostit'y from my oxporionoo. that a tom ior ol'
pouoo, thaultt'ulnoss, loyo. and ull'eotion. is muoli tho
mom propor l'ramo l'or prayor than that ol' torror and
disoomposul'o; and that under tho droad ot' misohiet'
impending. a man is no more lit for a comforting por-
l'ormunoo ofthe duty of praying to (Sod. than he is for
a ropontanco on a sick hod; tor tlioso disoomposuros
all'oet the mind. as tho othors do tho body; and the
disoomposuro of tho mind must nooossarily ho as great
a disability as that of tho hody. and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of tho body.

Ilut to go on: altar I had tlms aoourod one part of
my littlo living Sltn'h, I went about tho whole island,
wart-hing for another private place to make such anu-
ther deposit; when. wandering more to the west point
of the island than I had ever done yet. and looking out
to sea. I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great
distance. I had found a pers motive glass or two in one
of tho soamen's chests, whie. t I saved out of our ship,
but I had it not about me; aml this was so remote that
I could not tell what to make of it. though I looked at
it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer:
whether it was a boat or not. I do not know. but as I
descended from the hill I could see no more of it; so I
gave it over; only I resolved to go no more out without
a perspective glass in my pocket. When I was come
down the hill to tho end ol tho island. where. indeed.
I had ttth' been before, I was presently convinced that
the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a
strange thing in the island as I imagined: and but that
it was a special irm-idencethat I was cast upon the side
of the island w tore the savages never came. I should

easily have known that nothing was more frequent than
for the eanoes from the main. when they happened to
be a little too far out at sea. to shoot over to that side
of tho island for harbour: likewise. as they often met
and fonght in their canoes, the victors, having taken
any prisoners. would bring them over to this shore,
where, according to their (Wadfal customs, being all
camiibals, they would kill and eat theta; of which
hereafter.

\Vhen I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above. being the S.\V. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the
shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies; and particularly. I observed a place
where there had been a tire made. and a circle dug in
the earth, like a cockpit. where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things.
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it for a long while: all my a prehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pile I ofinhnman, hel-
lish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
lnnnan nature, which, though I had heard of it often;tin; Lira AND AiwnM'enss

yet I never had so near a view of before: in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of faint-
ing. when nature discharged the disorder from my
stomach; and having vomited with uncommon vio-
lence, I was a little relieved, hut could not hear to stay
in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill again

with all the speed I could, and walked on towards my
own habitation.

"'hcn I came a little out of that tart of the island,
Istood still awhile. as amazed. ain thcn rccovcring
myself. I looked up with the utmost nll'ectiou of my
soul. and. with a Ilood of tears in my eyes, gave (:od
thanks. that had cast my first lot in a mrt of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures
as these; and that, though I had cstccmcd my present
condition vcry miscrahlc. had yet given me so many
comforts in it that I had still more to give thanks for
than to eoluplaiu of: and this, ahovo all. that I had.
even in this miscrahle condition, hcen comforted with
the knowledge of I Iimself, and tho hope of his hlessing:
which was a felicity more than snllicicntly ('t uivalcnt
to all the misery which I had sull'ered, or could suffer.

In this frame of thankfuluess.l went homo to my
castle, and began to he nmch easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was hefore;
for I ohscrvcd that these wretches ncvcr came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking. not wanting, or not expecting. anything here;
and having otlcn, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it. without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of human crea-
ture there before; and I might he eighteen years more
as entirely (mncealed as I was now. if I did not discover
myselfto them. which I had no manner of occasion to
do; it hcing my only business to kcc i myself entirely
coueealed where I was, unless I found a hotter sort of
creatures than cauuihals to make myselfknown to. Yet
I entertained such an ahhorreneool'the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretohed in--
human custom of their devouring and eating one ano-
ther up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept0F noumsos t'nosoa. 157

<<'lnst! within my own circle. for almost two years after
this; when I say my own circle. I mean by it my three
plantations. viz. my castle. tny country scat, whieh I
called my huwer. and my enclosure in the woods: nor
did I look after this for any other use than as an en-
elosure for my goats; for tho aversion which nature
gave me to these hellish wretehes was such, that I was
as fearful ofseeing them as of seeing the Devil himself.
I did not so much as go to look after my beat all this
time, but began rather to think of making me another;
for I eouhl not think ot'ever making any more attempts
to bring the. other heat rouml tho Island to me, lest I
should meet with some of these creatures at sea; in
which. if I had happened to have fallen into their hands,
I knew what would have been my lot.

'I'ime. hoWever. and tho satisfaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discov'ercd by these pro do. be-
gun to wear otl' my uneasiness abottt them ; and began
to live just in the same composed manner as before'
oulv with this ditlerenee. that I used more caution, an
kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I
should happen to be seen by any of them; and parti-
eularly, I was more cautious of ttrin my gun. lost any
of them. being on the island. shoul happen to hearjt.
It was therefore a very good providence to me that I
had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats. and
that I had no need to hunt any more about the woods,
or shoot atthetn; and it'l did catch any of them after
this. it was by traps and snares, as I had done before:
so that for two vears after this. I believe I never tired
my gun oneo elf, though I never went out without it;
and. which was more. as I had saved three pistols out
ct'the ship. I always carried them out with me. or at
least two of them, stickin them in my goatskin helt.
I also fut-hished up one oft to great outlasses that I had
out ofthe ship. and made me a belt to hang it on also ;
so that I was now a most formidable fellow to look. at
when I went ahroad, if you add to the former descrip-
tion of myself. the particular of two pistols, and a. great
hroadsword hanging at my side in a belt. but without
a seahhard. _

'l'hings going on thus, as I have said, for some time.Iftl I.tI-'t-? AND AIH'IiN'I'I'II I"!

I It't'tttml. nan'vtingthmnnantinns. tn hn rmhwml In my
tivrmm'nalm. am atn way nt'liying. All thnanthinga It'lltIt'tI
tn uhnw tnn. mnrn and mum, hnw far my nnmlitinn was
t'i-nm lining niiavrahln. vnmparml tn annin nthnrs; nay.
tn many nthni' pat'tivnlarn nt' lit'n. which it might hayn
plnasml (tml tn haw IIIlItII' my Int. It pnt mo npnn r0-
tlnntinx hnw littln rvpining Iltt't't' wnnhl hn amnng' man-
kind at any nnmlitinn nl' lit'v. it' lwnpln wnnhl rathm'
vnmpnrn thvir t'ttlttIIIItttt with thnan that wnrn wnrsn. in
nnlm- tn hn thanld'nl. than ho always nninparing thvm
with thnsn whivh arn Itt'IIt't'. to assist thoir tnnrmnt'ings
and rnmplainings.

As in my prvannt nnmlitinn thnrv worn nnt wally
many things whivh I wantml. an. intlnml. I thnnght that
thn li'ights I IttItI hnnn in ahnnt thvsn myagn wrvtvhc's.
aml thv nnnvnrn I had lwnn in fur my own prnsvryatinn.
IttItI talwn ntl' thn mlg'n of my lnyvntinn t'nr my own
vnnynnivnm's; and I IIINI ih'nmwtt n gnntl IIt'SlR'tt,
whivh I had nnvn hvnt my thnnghta tnn mnvh npnn. and
that was. tn try it' I vnnhl nnt malm annw nl' my harlny
intn malt. and IIIt'lt try tn hrnw myavlt' annw var.
This was wally a whiniaival thnnght. and I t't'|tt'0\'t'tl
niysnlt' ntlvn t'nr thn simplii'ity nt' it; t'nr I prvwntly
MIW thvrn wnnhl lw thn want <<if anyvrnl things nm'ns-
nary tn thv making my hm'r. that it wnnhl hn impnssihln
l'nt' nw tn supply: as. that. vanhs tn prvwryn it in.
"hivh was a thing that. in I ltat'v nhm't't'ml alt't'atly. I
t'nnhl nmnr vmnlnun: tin. thnttg'h I alwnt ttnt nnly
many days. hut wm-hs, nay mnnths. in nttvmpting it. but
tn nn pnrpnan. In thn nv\t plavn. I had nn hnlni tn
mnlw it lump. nn yi'ttat tn malu' it wnrlt. nn vnmwr nr
lwttln tn mnlw it hnil; nml wt with all thvav things
wanting. I \'m'ily lwlinyn. hail nnt tho flights ntnl tor-
ttlltt I was in nhnnt thv nayagva IItIt'l'\'t'I|t'tl. I IIIItI tttt-
clm'tnlwn it. and pmhapa ln'nnght it tn pass tnn; t'ni' I
M'hlnm gayn any thing tH't't' withnnt avvntnpliahing it.
whnn nnvv I hml it in my hnacl tn lwgin it. "at my
inwntinn nnw ran quitv nnnthnr way; t'nr. night and
tla)'. l t'nuhl think ill nnlhing hnt hnw I might tlnsti'ny
Mttttt' nl' thaw mnnstnrs in thvir t'l'ltl'l. hlnmly nntvt'tnin-
nivnt. atnl. it' pnauihlv. savn thn \'It'IIIII thvy shnnlil
lning hithvr tn ilvntrny. It would talm up a larger
volume than this whole work is intended to he, to set
down all the enntrivanees I lmtehed. or rather lirunded
upon. in my thoughts. for tho destroying these crea-
tures. or at least frightening them so as to prevent
their eomiug hither any more: hut all this was shortive:
nothing eonld he possihle to take ell'eet. unless I was to
he thereto do it myself: and what unuld one man do
among them. when perhaps there might. he twenty or
thirty of them together. with their darts. or their laws
and arrows. with whieh they ennld shunt as true to a
marlt as l eunld with my gun?

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the
plaee where they made their tire. and putting in live or
six pounds of gunpowder. which. when they kindled
their lire. would ennsequeutly IIItO fire. and hlow up
all that was near it: hut as. in the tirst place. I should
he unwilling tn waste so mueh powder upon them my
store heiug now within the quantity of one liarre . so
neither eould l he sure of its going ntl' at any certain
time. when it might surprise them; and at heat. that it
would do little more than just hlow the tire about their
ears. and fright them. hut not sullieient to make them
forsake the dorm so I laid it aside; and then proposed
that I Wnnlil plaee myself in amhnsh in some nnnVenlent
plaee. with my three guns all dnnhle loaded. and in the
middle oftheir hlnody eeremouy. let tly at them. when
I should he sure tn hill or wnnnd perhaps two or three
at every shot ; and then falling in upon them with my
three pistols. and my sword. I made no doubt but that
if there were twenty I shnuld kill them all. This fanev
pleased my thoughts for some weeks; and l was so full
nt'it. that I often dreamed nt' it. and sometimes. that I
was Just going to let fly at them in in sleep. I went so
far with it in my imagination. that employed myself
several days to find out proper planes to put myself in
amhuseade. as I said. to wateh for them; and I went
frequently to the plaee itself. whieh was now grown
more familiar to me: hnt while my mind was thus tilled
with thoughts of revenge. and a bloody putting twenty
or thirty of them to the sword. as I may eall it. the
horror I had at the plaee. and at the signals nt'the har-
harnus wretehes devouring one annther. abetted myII-'l I." I". ANI) A "VI-ZN'I'I'I! I'TH'

main-o. \\'vll, at longth. I found a plaoo in tho IItIt'
of tho hill. "how I was siitislioil I might soouroly wait
till I saw any ot' thoir hoats oomiog: aml might thou.
oyon hot'oro thoy would ho roaily to oomo on shoro.
oonvov inysolt' uusoon into somo thioliots of troos, in
ono ot' whioh thoro was a hollow largo onough to oun-
ooal mo ontirrly; aml thoro I might sit and ohsorvo
all thoir lilooily doings, and tnlio my full aim at thoir
hoails. whon tliay \yoro so oloso. togothor as that it
would ho no\t toimpossihlo that I shouhl miss my shot.
or that I oonlil t'ail Wonuiling throo or four of them at
tho tirst shot. In this vlaoo. thon. I rosolvoil to tix my
ilosign; alul aooorilingly. l proparoil two muslwts and
my orilinary hm'liogliiooo. 'I'ho tu-o nmsltots I ItIIItIt'tI
With a hraoo of slugs oaoh. and tour or liyo. smallor
hullots. ahont tho sizo ol'pistol ballots; and tho t'owliug'r
iiooo I ItIRtIt'tI with noar a handful of swanshot of tho
Inrgost sizo: I also Intttlt'tl my pistols with about four
liullots oaoh ; and in this posturo. woll proyiiloil with
amnmuition for a soooinl aml IlIlI'tI ohm-go, I proparoil
my soll'tor my I'\'I('tIIIIIIII.

Altor I IIIIII thus IIIIII tho sohomo of my <<Ionian, amt,
in my imagination put it in praotioo. I oontinunlly made
my tour ovory morning up to tho top ot'tho hill. which
was from my oastlo, as I oallml it. about throo milos.
or moro. to soo it' I ('UIIIII ohsoryo any hosts upon tho
son. <<'umingz noar tho island. or standing oyor towards
it: hot I hogan to tiro of this haril iIuIy. alter I
IIIItI. for two or throo mouths. oonstantly kopt my
watoh. hut ramo aloays hook without any ilisooyory;
thoro haying not, in all that. limo. hoon tho Ioast
apponranoo not only on or noar tho shoro, hot on tho.
oliolo oooan. so far as my oyos or glassos ooulil roaoh
oyory way.

As long nsI IU' it my daily tour to tho hill to look
out. so long also kopt up tho rig-our of my (losig'n.
and my spirits soomoil to ho all tho whilo in a snitahlo
form for so outragoous an oxooution as the "WIN
twouly or thirty nakoil sayagos. for an otI'oaoo which I
hml not at all ('IIIt'l't'tI into any discussion of in my
thoughts, any thrthor than my passions were at first
III'UII by tho. horror I oonooiyoil at tho unnatural custom
of the people of that country; who. it seems. had heeu
sull'ered hy l'rnvidenee. in his wise disposition of the
world. to have no other guide than that of their own
ahoioinahlo uml vitiated passions; and, eonsequently.
were left. and perhaps had been so for some ages, to
not such horrid things, and receive sneh dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing hut nature, entirelv abandoned by
Heaven. aml aetuatod hy some hellish degeneraey,
could have run them into. llut now, when as l have
said. I hogan to ho weary of tho fruitless excursion
whieh I had made so long and so far every morning in
vain. so my opinion oftho action itself began to alter;
and l hogan. with cooler and calmer thoughts. to con-
sider what I was going to engage in; what authority or
eall I had to pretend to hojudgo aml eswutiouor upon
these men as eriminals. whom lleareu had thought lit,
for so many ages to sull'er. uupuuishod. to go on. aml
to be. as it were. the eseeutiouora of his judgments one
upon another. How far these people were offenders
against me. and what right I had to engage in the quar-
rel of that hlood whieh they shed promiseuously upon
one another, I dehated this very often with myselfthns:
How do] know what God himself judges in this par-
tieular case? It is certain these people do not commit
this as a crime; it is not against their own consciences
reproriug. or their light reproaehiug them; they do
not know it to he an otl'euee, and then commit it in de-
lianeo of divine justice. as we do in almost all the sins
we eommit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war. than we do to kill an ox; nor to
eat human flesh. than we do to eat mutton.

When I eonsidered this a little. it followed neces-
sarily that I was eertaiuly in the wrong in it; that these
people were not murderers in the sense that I had be-
fore condemned them in my thoughts. any more than
those Christians were murderers who oflen put to death
the prisoners taken in battle; or more frequently, upon
many oeeasious. put whole troops of men to the sword.
without giving quarter. though they throw down their
arms, and submitted. In the next place it occurred to
me. that although the usage they gave one another was
thus hrutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to

\'UI. I. si
IIIII; IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIII IIII injury: IIIIII iI' IIIIIII
IIIII IlllIII' '(I IIIII. III I In"! iI IH'I IIIIIIII'I'. IIIII Iny iIIInIII'IIiIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIII'IIIiIIn. III IIIII Illlnll IIIIIIII. iIIIInIIIIIing nIigIII IIII
IIIIiII I'III iI'. IIIII IIIIII I IIIIII IIII IIIII III IIIIiI IIIIIIIIII, IIIIII
IIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIgII III InII. IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIy
IIII IIIIIIIIIII IIINIII IIIII; IIIIII IIIIII'IIIIIIII II IIIIIIIII IIIII IIII iInII.
IIII' IIIII III IIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIn: IIIIII IIIiII WIIIIIII IIIIIIin IIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIII SIIIIIIiIII'IIII III IIII IIIIIir IIIII IIIIIIIiIIII III'IIII-
IIIII II in MIIIIIII II IIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIII'IIIIIII IniIIiIInII III
IIIIIIIII III-IIIIIII: IIIIII. IIIH\"'I'\I'I IIIIII' II-IIIII iIIIIIIIIIIIII nnII
IIIIII'IIIIIiIIIIII. IIIIII IIIIII M'\'I' IIIII IIIIIIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IiIIIII
in IIIIIiI' IIIIIIIIIII'I, IIIII II III IIIIIIIiIiIIinI; IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIiIIII III
IIIIIiI' iIIIIIII. II IIIII IIII. II: In IIIII SIIIIIIIIII'IIII. IIII II iIInIIIII'InI
IIIIIIIIIII; nnII IIIIII IIIII I-IIIIIiIIII' IIIIInI IIIII III IIIII I'IHIIIIIy in
IIIIIIIIIIII III IIiIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII'I'I IIIIII IIIIII III IIIsIIIIiIIn
III III'IIn IIIII SIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIiII IiInII, nnII IIy
IIII IIIIIIII'( III'iIIIiIIn IIIIIiIInII in IIIII-.II|III III II IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII-
III}, II IIIIIIIIII IInII IIIIIIIIIIII'III lIII'I II III IIIIIIIIIy. IIndIIIIi-
IiIIIIIII IIIIII'I' III (IIIII Ul' IIIIIII; IIIIII IIIr ""IIIIII IIIII I'III'y
IIIInIII III II hIIIInIIII II is I'IIIIIIIIIIIIII III Im II iIIIIIIIII nnII IIII-
IiIIIII III IIII IIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIiIII III' III (' IIIiIIIiIIII IIIInI-
passion; IIII iI IIIII IIII|"III|III III Spain II'III'II lIIIIIiIInIIIrII'
IIIIIIIII III IIIr IIIII 'IIINIIII II III II IIIIIII III nIIIII. II IIII IIIIIIII
IIIiIIImII III iIII iIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIII-IIII III IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIwI III
III IIiII III IIIII IIIiIIIIIIIIIIII. IIIIII II is I'IIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIII II
IIIIIIII III IIIIIIIII-IIIIs II'III'H'I' III IIIII mind.

'I IIIIIIII II IIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIiIInII I'IIIIIII IIIII IIIII III II IIIIIIIIII. IIIIII III
II kiIIII III II IIIII BIIIP; and I IIII Igun III IiIIIII IIIIII IIIIIII III
IIII IIII IIII IIIIIIign. IIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIII I IIIIII IIIIII' In III'IIIIII
nIIIIIImIIIII in nu H'sululiml In IIIIIIIIII IIIII .IIIIIIIgIIII; IIIIII
IIIIII II IIIIII nIII IIIy IIIIIIiIIIIIIII In IIIIIIIIIIII II'iIII IIIIII I.n nn-
II'Sh IIIIII IIIsI IIIIIII'III'II mo; and IIIiII iI was my IIIIIIiIII \H,
il IUSN'IIIII'. III IIIIII-IIIII; IIIII IIIIII if I warn IIisIIIII'III'IIII
IIIIII IIIIIIII III III II) IIIIIIII. I IIIII'W III" IIIII (In IIIII IIIIII-II
hand. I "I"'III'II IIiIII IIIIIIIIII. IIIIII ""5 I'I'IIIIV IIIIII IIIII
II III nIII I0 IIII liIIII III'M' II. IIIII I'nIiIIIII' In I'IIIII IIIIII IIII--
IIIIIIII IIIII';IIIII IIII' IIIIIIIIII I was IIIIIII III III" II\"III'_I IIIIII
IIIIII IIIII 'IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIII IIII IIIIIIIII III IIIIII IiInII. IIIII IIIIII
IIIIIHIIII ('\'I'l' IIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIII IIIII'IM\\IIIIIII. iI IIIII IIIIII III
"In"! IIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIII IIIIIir IIIIIIIIII'I -IIIIIIIIIII II'IIIII IIIIII
IIIIl IIIIIIII II. IIIII III IIIIIIIII I IIIIIIIII over again III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III
roIIIIIgII IIIII IIIIIIIII III IIIIIiI- Icllows, and I should only
bring upon myself a eertain destruction. which, at pre-
sent. I had no manner of occasion for. Upon the whole.
Ieoueluded, that neither in principle nor in policy I
ought. one way or other, to concern myself in this af-
fair: that my business was, by all possible means. to
conceal myself from them. and not to leave the least
signal to them to guess by that there were any living
creatures upon the island, I mean of human shape.
Iteligion joined in with this prudential resolution; and
I was convinced now. many ways, that I was perfectly
out of my duty when I was laying all my bloody
schemes tor the destruction of innocent creatures, I
mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes the were
guilty ot'towards one another, I had nothing to t o with
them; they were national, and I ought. to leave them
to the justice ot'God, who is the governor of nations,
and knows how. by national punishments, to tnalte a
just retribution for national ollenees. and to bring pub-
lic judgments upon those who oll'end in a public man-
uei. by such ways as best please him. This appeared
so clear to me now. that nothing was a greater satisfac-
tion to me than that I had not been sutl'ered to do a
thing which I now saw so much reason to believe would
have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, iI'I

bad eonnnitted it; and I gave most humble thanks on
my knees to God. that had thus delivered me from
blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to grant me the pro-
teetion of his iroridenee, that I might not fall into the
hands of the inrburiaus, or that I might not lay my
hands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from
Heaven to do it. in defence of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretehes. that in all that time I never
Ulttm went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had
been on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted
to renew any of my contrivanees against them. or be
provoked, by any advantage that might present itself.
to full upon them: only this I did, I went and removed
my boat, which I had on the other side of the island,
and carried it down to the east end of the whole island,1m Lin-2 AND :\I)\'I~INTI!IH'SS

Wllt'l't' I ran it intn a Iittln t'tH't'. "'IIIt'II I I'nnniI nmlvr
sumo high malts. aml whm-v I ltnvw. hy rvasnn at tho
variants. tlw Btn'ttg't'fl <<lin'st nut. at lnast wnahl nut "mm
with tlwir huats npnn any avvnnnt whatm-m'. \Vith my
Imat I vai-riml away mvry thing that I IIINI It'II thm'n
lennging tn hvr. thnngh nut nm'vssary I'nr thn harn
gain}: thithm'. \i/.. a mast and sail whivh I IIIItI mmln
fur hvr. and a thing lilm an mwlmr. hnt whivh IINIt't'tI
omihl nut Iw vallml vilhm' anvhm' nr gralmvl ; hnwm-m'.
it was thv hast I mahl malm at its himl: all thnsn I
I'vmnyml. that thm'n might nut Im tlm lvast slnnlnw <<if
any <<lisvui'vry. or any appi-ai'anvn of any hunt. nr of any
hnnmn hahilatinn almn thv island. IIi-siilvs this. I hvlit
mysvll'. as I said. murn H'III't'tI than rum. and solilnm
wvnt t'mm my ovll. nthvr than nlmn my nunstant ma-
ilnynwnt. viz. tn milk my shn gums. and managv my
Iittlv thick in thv wnml, which. as it was qnitu nn thn
nthvr part at tho island. was qnitn out of clang'nr; l'nr
vm'tain it is, that thvw sayagi' lwnplv. whn smnvtilnns
hanntml this island. llt'\'t't' vamo wuth any tlmnghts nl'
finding: anything lu'rv. aml vnnsrqnvntly anym- wandnrvd
otl't'rnm thv vnast ; amt I <<Innht ant hut tlwy might havn
lwnn svi'm'al timvs nn slim-n al'lm' my appwlwnsinns nt'
thvm IIIItI IIIlItII' lllt' vantiuns. as wall as hvt'nrn. IIItlt't'tI
I limhml IIIII'I\ \\'tIII snmv hnri'nr nlmn thn thnnghts ul
What my vmulitinn wnnlil haw van if I II-'III <<'Iiuplwil
IIIHHI tlwm and van <<lisvnym'ml hvlin'n that. whvn.
nakml ancl nnarnu-cl. <<would with nno gun. and that
Inmlml nt'tvn nnly with small shut. I wallu'il vi'm'y
whorv. pimping alul Iwming ahnat tho islainl tn tum
what I mahl g'vt; what a sin-prim shunlil l haw vaa
in. if. whvn I clisc-nyvrml thv inint <<if a man's timt. I
hml. instmul at that. svvn litivon nr twvnty savagvs. and
found thnm [unsning' IIH'. IIIItI hy thv swil'tnvss ut' thvu'
running. llu mssihility nl' my escaping thvln! 'I'hu
thnnghts <<if this snmotimvs RIIIII\ my \'t'I'_\' snnl within
inn. and ilistrvssml my iniml sn nmvh that I t'HIIltI nnt
snnn rvmwm' it. to think \\ hat I shnnld havo tItlIIt', and
haw I slmuhl nut only have lwvn nnahln tn rasist thmn,
Imt t'\'l'tt shunhI nut hayn hail prosonvo of mind vinmg'h
tn iln what I might haw done; much less what now,
utter so much cumiilcratiua and proparatinn, I mightm" uoumsoN (meson. 16.")

he ahlo to do. Indeed. aflor serious thinking of these
things. I would he very melancholy. and sometimes it
would last a groat while; hat I resolved it all. at last,
into tlmuhl'ulnoss to that I'rorideueo which had deli-
vorod me from so many unseen dangers. and had kept
from me those misehiol's which I oould have no way
Iwea the agent in delivering tnysoll'from, heoanso I had
not the least notion ol'any sneh thing depending. or the
least supposition of its heing possihle. 'l'his renewml a
mutomplatiou whioh olloa had oome to my thoughts in
former time. when lirst l hogan to see the merciful dis-
pmitious ol' lloaron. in tho dangers we run through in
this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we
I. now nothing of it; how; when we are in a quandary
(as we oall it). u donht or hesitation whether. to go this
war. or that way. a soorot hint shall direct us this way.
when we inlondod to go that way: nay. when sense.
our own inelination, and perhaps husiuess. has called to
go the other way. yet a strange impression upon the
mind. from we know not what springs. and hy we Itnow
not what power. shall overrule us to go this way; and
it shall afterwards appear. that had we gone that way
whirh we should have gone. and oven to our imagina-
tion ought to have gone. I'o slmuld hare heeu ruined
and lost. l' mu these, and tnauy like rolleetious. I af-
terwards mmlo it a oertain rule with me. that whenever
I found those sooret hints or pressings of mind, to doing
or not doing anything that presented. or going this way
or that way. I never failed to ohoy the secret dictate;
though I know no other reason for it than that such a
pressure. or suoh a hint. hung upon my mind. I could
give many examples of tho success ol' this conduct in
tho oourso ot' my life. hut more especially in the latter
part of my inhabiting this unhavpy island; besides
runny ooeasions which it is very likely I might have
taken uotioo of, it' I had seen with the same eyes then
that I see with now. llut it iauovertoo late to )0 wise;
and l oaunot hut advise all considering men, whose
lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
mine, or even though not so extraordinary. not to slight
sueh secret intimatious of Providence, let them come
from what invisihlo intelligence they will. That I shat!
not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for; but cer-
tainly they are a proof of the converse ofspirits, and a
secret communication between those embodied and
those unembodied, aml such a proof as can never be
withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable instances in the remainder of my soli-
tar residence in this dismal place.

believe the reader ofthis will not think it strange, '
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that
I had laid for my future accommodations and conve-
niences. I had the care of my safety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a
nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I
might make should be heard: much less would I tire a
gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I was intole-
rably uneasy at making any lire, lest the smoke, which is
visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me.
For this reason I removed that part of my business
which required lire, such as burning ofpots and pipes,
(kc. into my new apartment in the woods; where, after
I had been some time, I found to my unspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a \ast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the month of it, would be so hardy as to ven-
ture in; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who
like me wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The month of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where by mere accident (I would say, if I
did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before I go on
I must observe the reason of my making this charcoal,
which was thus: I was afraid of making a smoke about
my habitation, as I said before; and yet I could not.
live there without baking my bread, cooking my meat,
&c. ; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had
seen done in England, under turf, till it became chark,
or dry coal: and then putting the tire out, I preserved
the coal to carry home, and perform the other services
for which tire was wanting, without danger of smoke.
But this is by the by :--\Vhile I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood or nnderwood, there was I
kind of hollow place: I was curious to look in it, and
getting with dillleulty into the mouth of it, I found it
was pretty large: that is to say, suflieieut for me to
stand upright in it, aml perhaps another with me: but
I must confess to you that I made more haste out than
I did in, when, looking farther into the place. and
which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew
not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light from
tho cave's month shining directly in, and making the
relleetion. However, after some pause I recovered
myself, and began to call myself a thousand fools, and
to think that he that was afraid to see the devil was
not [it to live twenty years in an island all alone; and
that I might well think there was nothing in this cave
that was more frightful than myself. Upon this, pluck-
ing up my courage, I took up a lirebrand, and in I
rushed again, with the stick llamiug in my hand: I had
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very loud
sigh, like that of a man in some pain, aml it was follow-
ed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, and
then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was in-
deed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a
cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I will
not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it
ctl'. Ilutstill plucking up my spirits as well as Icould,
and encouraging myself a little with considering that
the power and presence of God was every where, and
\\ as able to protect me, upon this I step )ed forward
again, and by the light ol'the firebrand, ho ding it up a
little over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most
monstrous, frightful, old he goat, just making his will,
as we as , and gasping for life; and dying, indeed, of
mere ol age. I stirred him a little to see if I could
get him out, and he essayed to get up, but was not able
to raise himself; and I thought with myself he might
even lie there; for if he had frightened me, so he would
certainly fright any of the savages, if any one of them,'68 um: AN!) AIN'RN'I'K'IUCS

should ho so hardy as to onion in thoro whilo ho had
any mo in him.

I was now rooororod from my snrpriso. and hogan to
look round mo, whon I found tho oaro was hot vory
small. that is to say. it might ho ahont twolro t'oot oror.
hut in no tuaunor ot'shapo. uoithor round nor sqttaro. no
hands It:t\'ttta{ oror horn omployod in making it hot
thoso ot' moro Naturo. l ohsorrod also that thoro was
a Plaoo at tho farthor sido ot' it that wont tn t'nrthor. hat
was so low that it roqnirod mo to oroop upon my hands
and Ituoos to go into it, and \\ hithor it wont I know not :
so haring no randlo. I garo it oror for that titno; hnt
rosolrod to oomo again tho noxt dar. proridod with can-
dlos and a tiudor-lnn. \\ hioh I had ltttttIt' of tho look of
ono ot' tho tttttslu'ls, with sotno wild tiro in tho pan.

\ot'oriltngl)'. tho no\t day I oattto prot'idod with si\
largo oandlos ot'mr own making rt'or I tnado rory good
oandlos now of goats' tallow. hat was hard sot for oam
dlo- wit-It , nsing' sontrtitnos rags or ropo-yartt. and somo-
timos tho driod rind ot'a wood liko nottlos); and going
into this low plttt'o, I was ohligt'tl Io t't't't'p tttmlt ttll
tours. as I haro said. almost ton yards; whtoh. h_\' tho
war. I thought was a ronturo hold ouough. oonsidoring
that I know not how tar it might go. nor what was ho-
_\'ond it. "'hon I had got through tho strait. I t'onnd
tho root'roso highor up. I lwIioro noar twonty foot ; hut
novor was snoh a glorious sight soon in tho island. I
daro say. as it was. to look round tho sidos and root' of
this ranlt or oaro; tho wall rotlootod an hundrod thou-
sand lights to mo from my two oandlos. \\'hat it was in
tho rot-k. whothor diamonds. or any othor prooions
stonos. or gold, whioh I rathor supposod it to ho. I
know not. 'l'ho plaoo I was in was a most dolightl'ul
oaritr or grotto of its kind, as could ho os wotod,
though port'ootly dark; tho floor was dry ant Iovol.
and had a sort of a small Iooso gravol upon it. so that
thoro was no nausoons or vonomons oroatnro to ho soon.
noithor was thoro any damp or wot on tho sidos or root':
tho onl) ditlioulty in it was tho ontranoo; whioh. how-
oror. as it was a plaoo ot'soonrity. and sat-h a rotroat as
I wantod. I tlmnght that was a oonronionoo; so that I
w as roally rrJoiood at tho disoorory. and resolved,
withottt any dolay. to living somo ot' thoso things which
I was most anxious about to this plaoo; particularly. I
rosolvod to Iii'ing hithor my magazino ot powdor. and
all my spat'o arms. viz. two lowling-piooos. for I had
throo in all. and throo muslu-ts, t'or ot' thom I had night
in all: so I ltopt in my t'astlo only livo. whioh stood
i'oatly tuouutotl. Iilm 'Ilt't't'tt of vannou. on my outtuost
foam; and woro roady also to talto out upon any ospo-
tIIlIIIII. Upon this oorasion ot' romoving my ammuni-
tion, I Imppouotl to opon tlto hand of iowdot'. which I
toolt up out ot'tho son. and which IIlItI won wot; and I
found that tho wator had potiotratotl ahout throo or four
int-hos into tho powtloi- on ororv sido. whioh. oalting'.
and growing hard. had prosori'otl tho insido lilm a hor-
nol in tho sholl; so tlntt I had Ilt'llt' si\ty ponnds til you
tt'oml powdor in tho oontro of tho oaslt : this was a wry
agrooahlo discovery to out at that timo; so I oarriod all
away thithor. not-or ltooping ahoi-o two or throo pounds
of powdor with mo in my t'astlo, for four of a surprisn
of any kind: I also carried thithor all tho load I had
loll I'oi' lmllots.

I t'anoiod mysolt' now lilto ono of tho tinoiont giants,
whioh woro said to Iii-o in euros and holos in tho roolts,
whoro nono oonld oomo at thorn; for I porsuadod tny-
solt'. whilo I was horo. that if "to hundrod savagos wore
to hunt mo, thov could novor lind mo out; or. it' thoy
did. thoy would not vontnro to attaok mo horn. 'I'ho
old goat. whom I found oxpiring. diod in tho month of
tho t'tn'tt tho noxt day atlor I inatlo this discovery: and
I found it lltltt'Il oasior to dig a grout liolo thorn, and
throw him in and oovor him with oarth. than to drag
him out : so I intorrod him thoro, to prevent oll'cnco to
my noso.

I was now in tho twonty-third yrar of my rcsidcnco
in this island ; and was so natnralizod to tho plaoo. and
tho manner of living. that could I havo lint enjoyed tho
t'i-rtainty that no savagos would <<mum to tho place to
disturb too. I oonld haVo Iioon oontont to havo capita-
latod t'or sponding tho rost of my timo thoro. own to tho
last moment. till I had laid mo down and died, liko tho
old goat in tho cavo. I had also arrivod to some Iittlo
divorsions and amusements, which mado tho time passI'm Lit-*i-z AND .uivim'l'uuus

a grant dval mni-n plvasautly with Ittt' than it did hot'nrv:
as, tirnt. I had taught my Put, as l untml lint'ni'n. tn
spvak ; and hv did it M) t'anuliarlv. amt tallwd an iii-ti-
rulatrly and plain. that it was \'my plrasaut tn m0; tiir
l hnlnwn un liird (Wt't' spnlm plainvi'; and hn lived
with nw nn loss than si\ and twvnty yuan: how long;.
hn might [nun livvd atlni'waids l linnw tint. thnngli l
hnnw thvy hmv a untinu m tlw "mail! that thn livn a
hnudrml 30:" s. My dng was a vm'y pleasant nudylnving'
nnmpamnn tn inn tnr nn lvss than sistcwn wars nt' my
tiuw, and Ilwn dwd nt' invrn nld agv. As t'nr nu' vats.
thvy lttltlllllllt'tl. as l haw nhsm'ivd. tn that dnglvn,
that l was nhllgml tn shunt sm'm'al nl' tlu'm at that. tn
lump tllt'ttl t'inni dvvnuiing um and all I had; but. at
lcugth, wlwn thn twn nld nuns l lu'nnght wuth mu wnrn
gnnv, and allvr snlllt' tunn vnutiuually diiviug tlmm
t'i'nm inn, and letting thmn haw un lu'ni'isinn with m0.
thn) all ran wild intn thn wnnds. t'\t't'|tl lwn ni' tlu'vn
liii'niuilm. whivh l lu'pt lawn. and whnsn ynnug. who"
thvy had any, I always di'nwuvd; aml tlwsn wm'n part
nt~ m) tanuli. llnsidvs thvsn. I always lu'pt twn ni'
thrnn hnnsnhnld luds ahnut niv. whnm I taught tn t'm'd
nut nt' "'." hand; aml I had twn mnrn can-nits. whii'h
tallu-d lnrtty wvll. and wnnld all vall luihiu t'trusnv.
hut unun ltht' my llt'ltl', unr. iudm'd. did I talu' thn
iains with any nl thmn that I had dan with him. I
had alsn MWN'ul tauw snatnwls. whnsn nanws l luww unt.
that I caught npnn tlw hlttn't'. and nut lltt'lt' wings; and
thn littln stalws \\'lttt'lt I had plantml lwt'ni'n mi- rastln
wall living unw grnnn up tn a x'nnd thick grmv. tlwsn
t'nwls all liunl auinug' tlwsn lnw turns. and hunt tlwrv,
whivh was wiry agmvahh- tn Inn; an that. as I said
ttlttn't'. l lwgan tn lm var) wvll rnutvntml with thn life>>
I lml. il' l unuld haw lwvu svnurvd l'i'nm tlm dwad nt'
tlw saiagm. llut it was nthvrwisn dirm'tvd; and it
may nnt Iw amiss t'nr all pnnpln whn shall mnvt with
my stnry. tn malm this just nhsm'vatinu t'rnm it. \'it.
llnw t'rvquvutli. in tlw vnursn nt' nni' liu's. thn M'il
whirl: in nsvlt' wv svvk ninst tn shinninnl. whivh. wlwn
wn arn l'allnn mtn. is thn mnst drvadt'ul tn us. is ntlvn-
tinws thn wiry mnaus nr dnnr nt' nm' dnlivoranco. by
which alnno wv can hn raised again from tho titllictinu
wr urn l'nllon intn. I rnnhl givn nmny nxnmplol ofthiu
tlt tho onnrnn of my nnmwnnntnhlo lit'v; hut in nothing
wmi it mum partirnhn-Iy romnrltnhlu than in tho virnnm-
Mam-mi of my IttItI years of solitary t'ttttItIt'Itt'tt in this
inItttttI.

It thtt now tlm month of Ihmrmlmr, us I mid nhovo,
in nw twvnty-thinl yonr; nmI this. lining tho nonthortt
MIIPIIIt't' (I'orwvintvr I rnnnot will it). WM tho pnrtionlur
hum of my lmrrvnt. nml rrqnirmI my living pretty much
nhrnmI in tho IInItIH: whon going out pretty rnrlv in
tho morning. m-rn lwl'nrn it was thorough tlnylightJ
nzm ttttl prism! with sun-in}; :I light of <<onto liro npnn tho
shun-v. nt n clintnnm t'rnm mo of nhnnt t n milmt. tnwnrtlu
thn I'IIII ot' tho islnml whom I hmI ohsorvml nnmo
a." ngvn Innl lwvn. ns lwl'nrn, and not on tho other nitIo;
lmt. tn my grgnt nIIlivtinn, it was on my aitIn of tho
island.

I was imIvml tvrrthv unrprisml nt tho night. and
stop n-cl short within my grow, not (lining to go not.
lost i might Iw snrlnismI. nml yvt I hml no morn ltt'ltttt'
within, from tho nlvprohvnsinm I lnnl thnt it' thnnn
mirngvs. in rnmhling' nvvr thn IHIIIIHI. hIIINIItI timl my
('nl'tt utnmling or not, or nny of my won-Its and improve-
mnnts. thvv wnnltt imnwtlintvly rnnulntlo that thorn
m-rv poo sIn in tho plm'v, nml wnnltl thnn nnvor giro
mvr till tinny had found mo out. In this oxtrcmity. I
wont hunk <<Iirm'tlv In my onstln. pullmI up the lmltIcr

' ' \ - I
nttvr mo. and mmln nll things without look M "HM and
natural as I could.

'I'hnn l prvpnrml mysvlt' within. potting myself in a
postnro nt' ilvti-nro: I Inmlml all my rammn. mt I called
(hum. that is to my. my mnalwtn, which wnro mnnntmI
ulnm my now t'nrtilirntinn, mnI nll my pistols, IIItI ro-
wlvml tn ilvt'oml mysmlt' tn thn Inst gasp; not forgetting
wrinnsly tn vnmmvml mysvlt' tn thn tII\'IIIO promotion,
nml vnrnvstlv tn vrny to (Ind tn tlolivvr mo out. of tho
hands of ttui lmrImrinns. I nontimwd in this posture
nhnnt two hours; mnl hvgnn to ho mighty impatient for
inlvlligvnrn nhrnml. for I Innl no spies to sand out.
Attor uitting uwhilo lnngur. nml mnsmg what I should
do in this vnst was not nhlotn Iwnr sitting in ignorance
nny Iongrr; so setting up my Intitit'l' to the side of the172 um: AND AIH'EN'I'I'IHsH

hill. wheres llwm was a Ila! plann, us I nlmnrveil le'nrte,
nml Ilwn pulling llm Inclqlm' nIIm' inn. I livI iI np uguln.
tnnl ninnnlml In Ilm Iup ul' lIm Iiill; ulnl pulling out my
pui'wm-liw gldm. "Ilii'Il I Inul lnlwn nn pnrpnw. I laid
mu clunn ll." nn nu- lwlly nn lhu gi'nninl. ninI Iwg'nn In
Iunk l'nr llue plan-n. I prmmnlly I'nnnil llmrn wvrn nn It!"
than nine lmlu'il nmngra', silling rnnlnl n nnmll Iiw IIIC'_\'
Ivnl inmlu, nut In "tuna lImni, I'ur llmy Innl nn nrml nI'

Ilml. llm n-mitlwr In-ing mlrvnwly Iiul. lml. us I run>>
I'Mml, lu chms nnnne ul' mm- Imrlmruns alml uI' Iinlnnn

II('-\II, \\ liic-Ii Ilim Innl In'nnglil will: IIICIII, \inr-llwi' nIiH'h
nr ilmul, I vnnlil nnl Irll.

'I'liuv lnuI hm rannm "ill: "mm. which "my quI
Imnlnl up npnn llm mum; ninl m it was lImn lulu nI'
<<II>>. III('\ at't'IIII'II In Inc In "nil fni' Ilm I't'IIIIII nl' llm
Ilnml In an mun ngnin. II is nul mm In inmainn wlnit
nnnlminn llu>>. sigh! pnl Inn inln, (<<pt-Hull} wring llwm
n'nnin un my snln nl lliu ialmnl. ninl an mmi' inn Inn; Imt
\ilwn I ('nllsnlm'nl Ilmii' <<sunning Inns! he always wiIIi
llw vnrwnl nl' llm <<shlp, I In-gnn. ul'lm wnnIn. In Im "in"!
M'ilziln in my mind, Irving nnlislic-ul Um! I might gn
nln'nml "III! nalnl)' <<II Ilm Iimn nl Ilm Iiilv ul- IlnmI, II-
llnw' \H'lt' nuI nn BIIHI'U Iu-lnm: ninl lmung' nnnlu lliiu
nlm'n Minn, I wnnl nln'nzul IIINHII in)- Inn um! W0! L with
Ilm Innm (NIIIIIHDMIH'.

:I.' I v\ mvlml. an it prnvml; I'nr nu annn as [he IIII"
Inqu In Ina wmhvnnl, I saw Ilium nll lulu: Imnl. and
um (nr pnulullv, n5 wu rnll it). nmu'. I NIIUIIIII limn
"It"?! \ ml, llml I'nr nn IIUIII' nr innm lein'v Iln')' wvn! nlli.
lun)' wvnl n ilnnving; ninl I runlil (mail) iliavm'n llinir
lmnIurt's ninl gmtnira Iny in)- glass. I nnnld nut pur-
c'nihe. In In_\ "Iv-val nlmm'i'nlinn. Irnl Ilml (liny wwn
aturk nnkml, nmI Innl nnl llw Iran! running n mn IIN'III;
Iuit wlmllivr the.) "no invn nr wnnmn. I won (I not iIis~
lingniali.

As annn us I aim III('-III alii ipml mnl gnnn. I Innk Iwn
guns npnn nu alinnlilura. nInI lwu 'iinInIs in my gii'illn.
uml my RH'III nnnnl I>>) my nialv. \nlIwnI n M'IIIIIIIII'II.
mnl WIIII all lhu simml I was nInlv tn nmlu', wont away
In tlm hill wIwm I Innl IIIM'IH'C'I'CNI llw Iirnl uppunrnnvo
ul' all ; and nu mum nu I gut Iliillwr. \s-Innli was not in
Ivss lInm IWn linnl's (I'nr I I'UIIIII nnI 3n upuno, living Inmr nnnINunN ('IIUSIHL I73

IIIHIII'I' "III: arena as I was), I perurivml IIwra had been
IIII'cm vannva Innrn nI' Ibo Iavngm aI IInII place; and
Innking nnI I'arIbvr. I aaw Ibov warn all at Boa In chor.
making nwr I'm' Ibn Inain. 'I'b'u mm a <<Irnmll'nf aIgb!
In nun. mpnnially aa. gning IIIIWII In Ibn ubnm. I OIIIIIII
rum Ibn nnn'Iu nI' IIan'nI' wbivh Ilm .I'nnnnl WIII'II Ibvy
lnnI Imnn abnnI Innl IrII bnbimI iI. \'ia. IIm bInmI. IIIn
bnnm, and part of IIw IInab, nI' bnnmn bmlina. oaIvn
and IInWIII'mI by "man n-rvIrInsa wiIb nwrrInwnI and
npnrl. I was an IilImI "ill: indignatinn aI Ibo aigbl,
IImI I nnw bvg'an In prmnmIiIaIu Ibn IIvaII'nnIinn of Ibn

nmI IbaI I naw IImrv, IuI lbmn bu wbnnI nr Innw many
mnwr. II nmnnml m thnI In um Ian "In walla WIIII'II

Ilwy nnnln IInna In Ibis island wnrn nnI nary I'rm'nnnl.
Inr it was abnw IiIInnn Innnlba an'nrn any Innrv nI' IIwIn
nnnn nn abnrn IImI'v again; Ibal in In any. I nviIIwraaw
Ihmn. nnr any I'nnIa'Iclm nr nignnla nI' Ibmn. in a" Ibnl
Innn; fun as In Ibn rainy wannna. Ibrn Iva am anrc nnI
In rnnw aln'naII. aI IvaaI nnI an I'ar: an aII Ibia wbIIo I
I'uml nnvmnl'nrlably, by I'I'IIMIII of Ibn unnaIanI apprn-
Iwnsinna nI' Iboir mnninq npnn Inn by anrpriw; I'I'uln
wbnnnn I nbsm'vn. IIIaI IIm mlwvlalinn nl' OVII ia nnn'n
bullvr Iban Ibn nnII'm'inq. <<nnw-tally iI' Ibnrn Ia nn rnoln
In abaIm nII' IImI <<wlmnlnlinn. nr Ibnav nmn'elwnainna.
During all Ibis Iinw I was in Ibo InnnIm-ing Innnnnr,
nml Innk np must of my bnnra. wbiub abnan bavn [won
buIIvr mnplnymI. in nnnlu iving bnw In nirnnnn'onl and
{all npnn Ibmn. Ibn wry nan I'Inw I abnnbl arc IIwm;
mpruially if IImy HIIIIIIIII bn IIIVIIII'II. as Ilnay wow IIm
Ina! Iinw. inIn Iwn panics: nnr IIIII Ionns'nlnr In all.
IbaI if I killml nno pany, anppnao Ion nr a <<Inwn. I waa
inII IIm nan any. ur wank. nr month. In MII annIIwr,
and an annlbm'. own ml ioqliuitum. II" I abnnld bu at
Ivnglb nn Inna a InnnIvrnr Iban Ilwy wnw in boinu' Inan-
mums. and perhaps nnwb Innrn an. I ApnnI my days
"HIV in groan pvrplvxily and anx'wa nI' m'nnI. vxpvnIIng
IbaI Ialwnbl, one day nr nIIwr. fall inIn Ibo bands of
Ilwso Inm'uilnaa nroaInrna; and iI'I ("II III any Iinw ven-
Inro abruacl, iI was nnI wiIbnnI Innking' rnnInI Ina WIIII
Ibo grvaIvaI care and oanIinn imaginable. And nnw I
I'nnnd. In my great unnnl'an. Imw happy it was III" I IIMI
In-ovbImI a Ianno Ilock ur Lord of goats; for I duraI qu1H LIN". AN!) Ain'tasnra its

upnn any aooount. tiro my gun. ospooially noar that sidn
nt' tho island whoro thoy usually oauic, lost I shnuld
alarm tho saragos; and it' thoy had tlod t'rniu Ino nnw.
I was suro tn haso thom onino again. with porhaps twn
nr throo hundrod oannos with thoiu. in a tow days. and
thou I know what tn o\poot. llnworor. I wnro nut a
yoar and throo mnnths innro hot'nro I oror saw any innrn
of tho savagos. and thou I t'nund thoui again. as I shall
snnu nhsorro. It is truo. thoy might haro hoou thoro
unoo nr twioo. hut oithor tho) iuado un stay. or at loast
I did not soo thom: hat in tho mnuth nt' May. as hour as
l onuld oaloulato. and in nu tniir and twontioth yoar. I
had a wry straugo ononuntor with damn; (if whioh in
its plaoo.

'l'ho porturhatinu nl' my mind. during this lil'toon nr
sixtoou innuths' intorral. "as \or) groat; I slopt nu-
ipiiot, droaluod always frightful droanis. and nt'tou
startod nut nl' my sloop in tho night: in tho day groat
trnuhlos nrorwholmod uiv mind; and in the night I
droauiod nl'ton nl killing tho saragos. and nt'tho roasnns
why I might justit'r tho dning nt it. llut. tn warn all
this fur a whilo. It was in tho iniddlo nl' May, on tho
sixtoonth day. I think. as woll as aw pour wumlolt
ralondar wnuld rooknn. l'nr I lllttt'lu'tl all npnn tho pnst
still; I say. it was on tho si\toouth nt' May that it hlow
a \'or_\' groat stnrin nt' wind all day. with a groat doal nt'
lightning and thnndor. and a vory t'nul night it was at'tor
it. I know lint what was tho partioular nooasinu nl' it.
hut as I was roadius'r in tho llihlo. and taluen up with
wry sorinus thnnghts about my prosont onuditinn. I
was surprisod with tho uniso of a gun. as I thnngllt.
tirod at soa. This was. tn ho suro. a surprisn quite nt' a
ditlorout nature t'rnm any I had lllt'I with hofnro; for
tho nntinns this put iutn my thnnglits worn quito. nt'
annthor kind. I stailod up in tho groatost hasto ima--
ginahlo. and. in a trioo. olappod in} laddor tn tho. mid-
dlo. plaoo nt' tho rnols. and pullrd it al'tor mo; and
Innuntiug it tho soonnd Iltltt'. gnt tn tho tnp nl' tho hill
tho \'or_\' ninniout that a llasli nt' liro hid ino listen fur a
soonnd gun. which aoonrdiugly. in ahnut halt' a iuinuto.
I hoard; and. hy tho snund. know that it was t'rnm that
part of tho 5 'a whore I was driven down the current in
my boat. I immediately considered that this must be
some ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and tired these for sig-
nals of distress. and to obtain help. I had the presence
of mind. at that minute, to think, that though I could
not help them, it might be they might help me: soI
brought together all the dry wood I could get at band,
and making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon
tho hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and
though tho wind blew very hard, yet it burned fairly out,
so that I was certain, if thorn was any such thing "" "
ship, they must needs see it. and no doubt they did;
for as soon as ever my tire. blazed up I heard another
gun. and after that M'Vm'nl others, all from the same
quarter. I plied my tire all night long. till daybreak ;
and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up.l
saw something at a great distance at sea, full east oftho
island, whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguish,
no. not with my glass; the distance was so great, and

the weather still something hazy also ; at least it was so
out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
t'eired that it did not more; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may
he sure, to be satislied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the south side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the cur-
rent; and getting up there, the weather by this time
being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great
sorrow, the wreck of a ship, east away in the night upon
those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in
iny boat; and which rocks, as they checked the vie-
lenee of the stream. and made a kind ot'countcr-stream,
or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering from the
most desperate, ho )OIOSS imndition that over I had been
i". inall my life. ' 'hus, what is one man's safety is soo-
ther man'silestruction : for it seems these men, whoever
they were. being out oftheir knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water. had been driven n ma them
in the night', the wind blowing hard at E.N. '2. Had
they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they
Illtl not. thoy must. as I thought. haw omloavonrml to
havo sayml thomsolyos on shoro hy tho lwlp ol' thnir
lmat ; hnl thvir tiring oll' guns for holp. ospvoially whoa
thvy saw. as I imaginml. my lirv. lillml mo with many
thoughts: tirst. I imaginml that upon sooing my light.
thvv might hayv pot thvmsvlvvs into thvir hunt. and
vnilvm-onrml to malw tho shoro; hat that tho sva going
wry high. tln'y might havo hoon vast away: othm'
limos I imaginml that thvy might haw lost thvir boat
hi't'orv. as might lm tho vaso many ways; as. particu-
larly, by tho hroal'ing ol'thv sva upon thvii' ship. whii'li
many timvs ohligml noon to stmo. or tnko in pim'os.
Illt'll' hoat. aml somotinws to throw it ovorhoaril with
thoir own hamls: othvr limos I imaginml thi'y lllltl somo
othvr ship or ships in company. who. upon tho signals
ot'ilistross thvy hail mmlo. hail talwn thom up aml oar-
riml thvm oll': othvr timvs l tLinviml thiw worn all gono
(ill to son in thvir hoat. aml lwing' hurriml away by tho
vnrront that I lllItI Ilt't'll t'ormvrly in. wow t'lll't'lt'tl out
into tho grvat ovvan. whvro thorn was nothing lntt
misi'ry aml pvrishing'. aml that. pm'haps. thvy might by
this timo think of starving, aml of living in a condition
to vat Utlt' anothi't'.

As all thvso \vrro lmt vonjovtttrt's at lwst. so, in tho
oomlition I was in. I vouhl (III no morn than look on
upon tho ltllst't'_\' of tho poor mon. aml pity thom; whioh
had still this good i'tl'm't on my siilv. that it gavo mo
morn llIItl morn vansv to giyo thanks to God. who haul so
happily and romlin'talily proyiilml t'or mo in my ilvso-
latv vomlition; and that of two ships' vompamos, who
worn now vast away upon this part of tho world. not
ono lit'o shoohl ho spat-ml hut minv. I loarnml hvro
again to ohm-n n. that it is \'('l'_\' row that tho 'n'm-iilvnvo
ol' (Soil casts us into any ('Ulltllllttll of "to so ow, or any
unis-cry so grvat. hot on may :00 somothing or other to
ho tlmnht'nt tor. aml may svo othi'rs in worso nit-unm-
stam'os than our own. Sui-h vortainly was tho raso ol'
thvso awn, of whom I vonhl not so maoh as sun room
to snpposo any ot' thom worn savml; nothing oonhl
malw it rational so IIIIII'II as to wish or (wpovt that "my
(IltI not all parish thcro, ('\('t'l'l tho possibility only of
their heing taken up hy another ship in compan ' ; and
this was hut mere possihilitv indeed. for I saw not the
least sign or appearance of any such thing. I cannot
explain. hv any possihlo energy of words. what a strange
longing or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upott
this sight. hrealting out sometimes tlms: " t) that there
had lmen but one or two. nay. or hut one soul, saved
out of this ship, to have escaped to me. that I might but
have had one companion. one l'elluw-ereatnro to have
spoken to me. and to have conversed with I" III all tho
timo ot' mv solitary life. I never felt so earnest. so strong
a desire alter the society of my t'ellmv-ereaturcs, or so
deep a regret at the. want of it.

'l'here are some seeret moving springs in the. afl'ec-
tions, which. when they are set agotng by some object
in view. or. though not in \'ItHV. yet rendered present
to the mind hy the mwer of imagination, that motion
t-arries out the soul. vy its impetuositr. to such violent.
eager emhraeings ot' the object. that the ahsenee of it is
insupporlahle. Such were these earnest wishing: that
hut one man had been sated. I believe I repeated the
words, " t) that it had been but one I" a thousand
times ; and my desires were so moved hv it. that when
I spoke the words my hands would clinch together.
and my lingers would press the palms of my hands. so
that it' I had had any soft thing in my hand. it would
have crushed it involuntarily ; and the teeth in my head
unnld strike together. and set against one another so
strong. that for some time I eould not part them again.
lmt the naturalists explain these things, and tthou
and manner of them: all I can say to them is, to do-
sm-iho the. fact. which was even surprising to me, when
I found it. though I knew not from whence it proceed-
ed : it was doubtless the etl'eet of ardent wishes. and of
strong ideas formed in my mind. realizing the comfort
which the cmwersation of one of my fellow-Christians
would have been to me.---llut it was not to be; either
their fate or mine. or both, t'orhado it: for. till the last
year of my being on this island. I never know whether
any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only
the atilictien, some days after. to see the corpse of a

um. I. N
 

drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on
but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of Open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; hut. nothing,r to direct
me so much as to guess what nation he was of; he had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces--(illeileit and a
tobacco-pipe;----thc last was to me of ten times more
value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find something on board that might be useful to me:
but that did not altogether press me so much as the pos--
sibility that there might be yet some living creature on
board, whose life 1 might not only save, but might, by
saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree;
and this thought clung so to my heart that 1 could not
be quiet night or day,bnt I must venture out in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence, I thought the impression was so
strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted, that
it must come from some invisible direction, and that I
should be wanting to myselfit'l did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my voyage,
took a quantity of bread. a great pot of fresh water, a
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a
great deal of that left), and a basket of raisins: and
thus, loading myself with every thing necessary, I went
down to my boat, got the water out of her, put her
atloat, loaded all mr cargo in her, and then went homo
again for more. My second eargo was a great bag of
rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade,
another large pot of fresh water, and about two dozen
of small loaves, or barley-calms, more than before,
with a bottle of goat's milk and a eheese: all which,
with great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat; and
praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and
rowing, or paddling. the canoe along the s tore, came at

last to tho utmost point of tho island on the north-east
side. And now I was to launch out late theoeean, and

either to venture. or not to venture. I looked on the
rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the
island at a distance, and which were verv terrible to
me. from tho rcuwmbraneo of tho hazard I had been in
before, and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw
that if I was driven into either of those currents, I
should be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps
out of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that
then, as my boat was but small, ifany little gale ofwind
should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

'l'hcse thoughts so oppressed m3 mind, that I began
to give user my enterprise; an having hauled my
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and
set me down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive
and anxious, between fear aml desire, about my v0yage;
when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide
was turned. and the flood come on; it won which my
going was impracticable for so man tours. Upon
this, presently II occurred to me, that should go up to
the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe,
it' I could how the sets of the tide, or currents, la
when the flood came in, that I mightjudge whether, If
I was driven one way out, I might not expect to be
driven another way home, with the same rapiduesa of
the currents. 'I'his thought was no sooner in my head
than I cast my eye open a little bill, which sufficiently
overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had
a clear View of the currents, or sets of the tide. and

which way I was to guide myself in my return. I'lcro

_ f
1 found, that as the ourront ot' ebb set out close by the
south point of the island, so the ourrent of tho tlood sot
in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had
nothing to do but to hoe i to the north side of the island
in my return. and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the
next morning. to set out with the tirst of tho tide; and
reposing myself for the night in my canoe. under tho
great watrh-ooat I mentioned, I launvhod out. I first
made a little out to sea, t'ull north. till I began to feel
tho benefit of the current, which set eastward. and
which carried me at a great rate; and yet did not so
hurry me as tho current on the south side had done bo-
l'oro. so as to talm from me all government of tho boat;
but having a strong stowage with my paddle, I Went at
a grout rate directly for the wreck, aml in less than two
hours I vamo up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at:
the ship. which, by its building. was Spanish, stuck
l'ast. janunod in brtween two rooks; all the strrn and
quarter of her were beaten to PIt't'Ofl by the son ; and as
bor ton-wastlo, which stuck in tho rooks, had run on
with great violence. bor maimnast and fore-mast were
brought by tho board, that is to say, broken short oll';
but hor Imwsprit was sound. and the head and bow ap-
peared lirm. "'hon I cattle close to her. a dog ap-
peared upon her, who, svoinw me coming. yolped and
cried; and as soon as I t'ttllt't him,jum )CtI into the sea
to none to me; I took him into the boat. but found
him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him
a oako of my bread. and he dovourod it like a ravenous
wolt' that had been starring a fortnight in tho snow : I
then guru tho poor rroaturo some fresh water. with
which. il' I would have let him. he would ban: burst
bimsoll'. Alter this, I went on board; but the Iirst
sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-
room, or t'orecastlo of tbo shi I, with their arms l'ast
about one another. I oouoludetl, as is indeed probable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
broke so high, and so continually over her. that tho
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the constant rushing in ot'tbe water, as much as if they
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was no-
thing left in the ship that had life; nor any goods, that
I could see, but what were spoiled by the water. There

were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I
knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the
water being ebbed out, I could see ; but they were too
big to meddle with. i saw several chests, which I be-
lieved belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two
of them into the boat, without examining what was in
them. Had the stern of the ship been tixed, and the
t'orepart broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal
of wealth on hoard ; and, if I may guess from the course
she steered, she must have been bound from Buenos
Ayres, or the Rio de la l'lata. in the south part of Ame-
rica. beyond the llrazils, to the llavannah, in the Gulf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no
doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that
time, to any body; and what became of her crew, I
then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much dilliculty. There were several mnskets
in the cabin, and a great powder-born, with about four
pounds of powder in it; as for the mnskets.l had no
occasion for them. so I left them, but took the wder--
horn. I took a lireshovcl and tongs. which wanted
extremely ; as also two little brass kettles,a copper pot
to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo,
and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, about an hour
within night,l reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the
boat; and in the morning I resolved to harbour what I
had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my
castle. Alter refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore. and began to examine the particulars. The cask
of liquor 1 found to be a kind of rum, but not such as
we had at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good;
but when 1 came to cpen the chests, 1 found several
things of great'nse to me: for example, I found in one
a line ease of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the hot-'
tles held about three pints each, and were tipped with
silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or
sweatmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt
water had not hurt them; and two more of the same,
which the w ater had spoiled. I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a
dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiets and
coloured neckcloths; the former were also very wel-
come, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a
hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces-of-eight,
which held about eleven hundred pieces in all ; and in
one of them, wrapped up in apaper, six douhloons of
gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold ; I suppose
they might all weigh near a pound. :In the other chest
were some clothes, but oflittle value; but, by the circum-
stances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate;
though there was no powder in it, except two pounds
of fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I
suppose, for charging their fowling pieces on occasion.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that"
was of any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no
manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt
under my feet; and I would have given it all for three
or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were
things I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for
many years. I had indeed got two pair of shoes now,
which I took off the feet ofthe two drowned men whom
I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to me; but
they were not like our English shoes, either for ease or
service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes.
I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces-of eight
in rials, but no gold: I suppose this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which seemed .to belong to
some officer. \Vell, however, I lugged this money
home to my cave, and laid it up, as 1 had done that be-
fore which I bronght from our own ship; but it was a
great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had
not come to my share; for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over with money; and
thought I, if I ever escape to England, it might lie here
safe enough till 1 may come again and fetch it. '
Having now brought all my things on shore, and se-
cured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or pad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid
her up, and made the best of my way to my old habita-
tion, where I found every thing safe and quiet. I began
now to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and
take care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived
easy enough, only that ._l was more vigilant than 1 used
to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so
much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom,
it was always to the east part of the island, where l was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where
1 could go without so many precautions, and such a load
of arms and ammunition as I always carried with me if
I went the other way. I lived in this condition near
two years more; but my unlucky head, that was always
to let me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and designs,
how, if it were possible, I might get away from this
island: for, sometimes 1 was for making another voyage
to the wreck, though my reason told me that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound
any where,l knew not whither. I have been, in all
my circumstances, a memento to those who are touched
with the general plague of mankind, whence, for aught
I know, one half of their miseries flow ; I mean that of
not being satisfied with the station wherein God and
nature hath placed them: for, not to look back upon
my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my
father, the opposition to which was, as I may call it, my
original sin, my subse uent mistakes of the same kind
had been the means 0 my coming into this miserable
condition; for bad that Providence, which so happily
seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with
confined desires, and I could have been contented to .
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time,
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the
most considerable planters in the Ilrnzils; nay. I am
persuaded, that by the improvements I had made in
that little titne I it"Cti there, and the increase I should
robably Itttt'o made if I had remained,I might hate
iieeu worth a hundred thousand moidores; and what
business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well stocked
plantation, improving and increasing, to turtt super-
eargo to Guinea to fetelt negroes. when patience aml
time would have so increased our stock at home, that
we could have bought thetn at our own door from those
whose business it was to fetch them? and though it had
eost us something more. yet the. difference of that price
was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard.
But as this is usually tho fate of young heads, so re>>
fleetion upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise
of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of
time : so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the
mistake taken root in nty temper, that I could ttot sa-
tisfy myself in my] station, but was continually poring
upon the means and possibility of my escape trotn this
p ace: and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the
reader, bring on the remaining part of my story. it may
not he improper to give some account of my tirst eon-
eeptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my
escape, and how, and upon what foundation I acted.

I not now to be supposed retired ittto my castle, after
my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and se-
ottred under water, as usual, and my condition restored
to what it was before ; I had more wealth, indeed. than
I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no
more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards eatne there.

It was one ol'the nights in the rainy season in March,
the fottr and twentieth year of my first setting foot in
this island of solitude, I was lying in my bed or ham-
mock. awake; very well in health. had no pain, no dis-
temper, no uneasiness of body, nor any uneasiness of
mind, more. than ordinary, bttt could by no means close
my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night
long. otherwise than as followsz--It is impossible to
set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirl-
ed through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the
memory, in this night's time: I ran over the whole his-
tory of my life, in miniature, or by abridgment, as I
may call it, to my coming to this island, and also of that
part of my life since I came to this island. In my re-
llections n ion the state of my case since I came on
shore on his island, I was comparing the happy pos-
ture of my all'airs in the first years of my be ttation
here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear, and care,
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of
a foot in the sand; not that I did not believe the sa-
vages had frequented the island even all the while, and
might have been several hundreds of them at times on
shore there; but I had never known it, and was inca-
pable of any apprehensions about it; my satisfaction
was perfect, though mv danger was the same, and I was
as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never
really wen exposed to it. I'his furnished my thoughts
with many very ll'OIIIIlI)I0 reflections, and particularl
this one: How iniinitely good that Providence is, which
has provided, in its government of mankind, such nar-
row bounds to his sight and knowledge ofthings ; and
though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dan-
gers, the sight ot' which, if discovered to him, would-
distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene
and calm, by having the events ot'things bid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which sur-
round him.

Atter these thoughts had for some time entertained
me, I came to reflect seriously it on the real danger I had
been in for so many years in t tis very island, and how
I had walked about in the greatest security, and with
all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing
but the brow of a bill, a great tree, or the casual ap-
proach of night, had been between me and the worst

ind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands
ot'cannibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view as I would on a goat or a turtle,
and have thought it no more a crime to kill and devour
me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I would an-
justl slander myself, it' I should say! was not sincerely
than ful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility, allIliti LII-'1'? AND A "VI-ZN I'UII ES

thosn nnknnwn dvliynram-rs wvrn dun. nnd withnut
which I must inevitably haw l'allun into their mrrcilrss
hands.

"hon Ihvsn thnnghts wvrn (nor. my hvad was for
snmn Iimn Inlwn up in nnnsidvring Ihv natnrn nl' thrsv
wrvtvlwd rrvatnrcs, I IIII'IIII thn sayag'vs, and hnw it
ramn In pass in Ilw wnrld, that tho "isn (-'mvrnnr (if
all things shnttld gin>> ttp any (if his ('I'I'IIIIII'I'S In stu'h
inhumanity. nay. In smut-thing sn mnrb lenw vwn
brutality itsi-ll'. as In drynnr its nwn kind: but as this
nndml in snmn (at that timn) l'rnitlvss spvrulntinns. it
nnvnrrnd tn mn In inqnii'v. what part nl' the wnrld
Ihvsi- wrvtrhvs lirvd in? hnw I'nr nlI' Ihn vnnst was
l'rnm \yhvm'n thvy rmnv? wbnt thry ynntnrnd nvrr so
far from hnmn I'm? what kind nt' bnats Ihry bad? aml
why I might not nrdnr III) snll'and my bnsinvss so, that
I might bv as nbln tn gn nycr tbithvr, as Ihny "cm In
cnmn In mn.'

I non-r sn lllllt'll ns Irnnblvd mysnll'tn nnnsidnr "hat
I shnnld dn with myself qu-n I wc-nt Ibithvr; What
wnnld lwcnmn nl' mn if I In" intn Ibv bands of tlin
savagvs; nr hnw I shnnld i-srapn thrm il'lhvy atlarlwd
Inn; nn, nnr sn much as bnw it was pnssibln l'nr mo In
rvavh tho mast. and nut bn attavlu'd by snmn nr ntlwr
nl' lhvm, withnut any linssiliility nl' tlvliy'nring mysrll';
aml il'l should not fall into their hands. what I shnnld
dn t'nr lll'tH isinn. nr whitlu-r I shnnld bnnd my cnnrsv :
nnnn nl thi-sn thnugbts, I say, an murh as ramn in my
way; but my mind was whnlly bent npnn tho nnIinn of
my passing nwr in my bnnt In tho. main land. I lnnlwd
npnn my prcsnnt nnnditinn as tho mnst misnrabln that
could pnssibly bn; that I was not nbln In Ihrnw mysnll'
into anything but drath. that could be called worse;
and ill rrarbrd the slums of the main, I might wrbnps
mm't with rclivl', or I might unast along. as I di nn the
African shnrv, till I name In some inhabited country,
and whcrn I might find snmn rvliel'; and al'tnr all, 'mr-
haps I might fall in with snmn Christian ship that mtght.
Ialm mo in ; aml il'thn wnrst vamn In Ihn worst. Icnnld
bnt div, which Wuttltl mt an and In all those misorins
atbiiw. I'ray nntc, nl this was the fruit nt'a disturbed
mmd, an impatient Imnpor, made dcspcrato as it wore,
by the long (mutinuauvo ot' my troubles, and the disap-
pointuwnts I had met in the wreck I had been on board
of. and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
rariwstly longed for. viz. souwhody to speak to, and to
learn some knowledge from them of the place where l
was, and ot' the probable means of my deliveranoo.
l was agitated wholly hy these thoughts; all my calm
of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and waiting
the issue of the dispositions of llvaven. seemed to be
suspended; and I had. as it were, no power to turn
my thoughts to anything but to the project ol'a voyage
to the main. whivh onnw upon me with Itttt'll force.
and surh an impetuosity of desire, that it n as not to be
resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours
or more, with such violence that it set my wry blood
into a ferment. and my pulse heat as il' I had been ill a
fen-r. merely with the extraordinary l'enonr of my
mind about it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and
exhausted with tho very thoughts of it, throw me into
a sound sloop. One would have thought I should have
dreamed of it. but I did not, nor of any thing relating
to it: but I dremnod that as l was going out in tho
morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore
two oanoos and eleven savages, coming to land. and
that they brought with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill. in order to eat him; when, on
a sudden, tho savage that they were wing to kill
jumped away. and ran for his life; and thought. in
my sleep. that he came running into my little thick
grove before my t'ortilieation. to hide himself; and that
I. seeing him alone, and not perceiving that tho others
sought him that way, showed myself to him. and smil-
ing upon him, encouraged him: that he lsueeled down
to me. seeming to pra me to assist hint; upon which
I allowed him my huh or, made him go up, and carried
him into in cave, and he became m servant: aud that
as soon as lyhad got this man, 1 sail to myself, " Now
I may certainly venture to the main land, for this fellow
will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do,
and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go
for fear of being devoured; what places to venture into
and what to shun." I waked with this thought; aml
was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint-
ments which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
that it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
dejeetion of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go about to attempt an escape was, if
possible, to get a savage into my possession; and, if
possible, it should be one oftheir prisoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to
kill. But these thoughts still were attended with this
difficulty, that it was impossible to effect this without
attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them
all; and this was not only a very desperate attempt,
and might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had
greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself; and my

ll

heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so muc
blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need not

repeat the arguments which occurred to me against
this, they being the same mentioned before: but though
lhad other reasons to offer now, viz. that those men
were enemies to my life, and would devour me if they
could; that it was self-preservation, in the highest de-
gree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and
was acting in my own defence as much as if they were
actuall assaulting me, and the like; I say, though
these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding
human blood for my deliverance were very terrible to
me, and such as I could by no means reconcile myself
to for a great while. However, at last, after many
secret disputes with myself, and after great perplexities
about it (for all these arguments, one way and another,
struggled in my head a long time), the eager prevail-
ing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the
rest; and I resolved, if possible, to get one of those
savages into my hands. cost. what it would. My next
thing was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was
very ditlicult to resolve on: but as I could pitch upon
no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself
upon the watch, to see them when they came on shore,
and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures
as the opportunity should present, let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often,
that I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and a half that I waited; and for great part of that
time went out to the west end. and to the south west
corner of the island almost every day, to look for
canoes, but none appeared. This was very discourago
ing, and began to trouble me much, though I cannot sa
that it did in this case (as it had done some time before
u earoll'tbe edge ofmy desire to the thing; but the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager] was for it:
in a word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight
of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I
was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I fancied
myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages,
it"! had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me,
to do whatever] should direct them, and to prevent
their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It was
a great while that l pleased myself with this affair;
but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for a
great while.

About a year and a half after I entertained these
notions (and by long musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them into execution), I was surprised one morning
early, with seeing no less than live canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who be-
lunged to them all landed, and out of my sight. The
number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came four or six,
or sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed; so lay still in my
castle, perplexed and discomforted: However, I put
myself into all the same postures for an attack that I
had formerly provided, and was just ready for action,
if any thing had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at

length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot191) LII-'t-Z AM) ADVIIINTL'Rl-ZS

1IfIIII' la1I1l1Ir. au1l 1IlIIIIIII1II'1III up to tho top of tho lIill.
III' "II' III II .I'taI'1Is II. as usual , stamliuk r so. lI0II1II'1Ir, that
IIII II1Ia1I 1li1l II1Itap|I1Iar alIIIIu tho hill, .I1I that tlI1II-
1I1I1Il1 l II1It II1Ir1I1IiI'1I. III1I III IIIII' III1IIIIII1. II1I11I I 1III.I1II'I1I1I.
IIII tlI1I Ilt'Ilt 1II IIII' II1II.I'|I1I1I.tiI'1I glass, that they III1II1I II1I
loss tlI: III tlIiI II' in IIuIIIlI1II' . that IIII'V had a tin: kiII1ll1I1l,
and that "my mm mm" 1II'1I.I'.I'1I1I. II1IIII th1Iy lIaII 11I1II1-
1I1I it I I1II1III' not. or what it am; but th1II' II1Iro all
1IaII1I wax. in l l1II1III' II1It lI1III' IIIaIII' INII"I)tIIt)lIS g1 03111113
and liI..:1II1Ia. tII1I' II 1IIIu II III. I'IIIIII1I tlI1I IiI1I.

\\ lIi|1I I was thus |1I1Ikiug on them. I II1Ir1I1IiI'c1l. by
my II1II'sp1I1ItiI'1I. tIII1I IIIi.II1II'alI|1I II'I'1It1IlI1Is dragged I'I'1IIII
t|I1I hunts. II'II1Ir1I. it .I'1I1IuIs. tlIIIII III1II'1I laid III. and Wt'l't'.
II1III brought out fur the .I'laughtr r. I II1II'1I1IiI'1I1l one of
"NI IIII iIIIIII1I1|iat1III' I'.all II1I IIIIII IIII1I1- I11I1l 1I1IIIIII I suppose
IIitlI II1Il1III 1II II1I1I1l1I III SWUIII. l1II' that was IIIt'Il' "III.
and tII1I 1Ir tIII'1I1I 1ItlI1II.I' II1I11I IIt II1IIk iIIIIII1I1Iiat1IlI.
Hitting IIiIu 1III1II I1II' III1IiI 1I1I1Ik1II'I. \I'IIiI1I t|I1I 1ItlI1II'
II1I "III II III l1lt .Itau1liug III IIIIIIM'II. till IIIIII ~|I1III|1I II1I
I1Ia1II I1II' IIiIII. III that I1I'II III1IIII1IIIt. tlIII II1I1II III1It1IlI
s1I1iIII.:|IiIII.I'1IlI a Iittl1I at IilI1IIlI. aII1I IIIIII1I1III1l. IIatuIII
iIIspiI1I1l IIiIII IIitII II1III1I.I' 1II liIII. aII1I IIII. .ItIIIt1I1I aIIII_'I
II1IIII tlI1IIII.aII1l IaII IIillI III1I I'1I I1li|Il1I III-iltII1I 55 along the

.':I1I1I.I'.1IiI'I1I1tlI' t1IIIaI1II law I III1aII. t1III'aI'1I.~I that part
1II tlI1I 1I1Iast IIlIII I'I1I IIII lIaIIitatiuII IIII.I. I IIas 1II'1Ia1l-
I1IIII II ighlv II1I1I. I IIIIIIt tlt' kII1III'I1 1III'1I. II Ilt II I I1I I1I1I II 1I1I
IIiIIi IIIII IIII IIIII. IIII1I 1Is|I1I1I i: IIII' wII1I II. as I t I1I1Igl1t. I
saw him IIIIIIII11I III tlI1I II'lI1II1I II1I1IIzaII1III1IIvI1I\-
II1I1' t1I I1| that IIIIIt 1II IIII 1II1IaIII II as 1I1IIIIinI' t1I pass. and
that II1I II'1IIII1I1 t'l'iltllttII taluI .I'II1 Itcr III IIII quIII: hat I
1I1I1I|1l II1It 1.l1I|I1III1|. III aIIII III1IaIIs. IIp1III IIII 1II1IaIII I1II'
III1' t'1' SI III II. I' I'I.. lItttI IIIII ttIlM'l' MI\I|"1.\' II 1IttI1I IIIII pm-
sue lIiIII tlIiIlI1I I. and find him tlI1I II1I. II1III'1II or, I kept
IIII station. and IIII .I'IIiIits lI1Igau t1I I'1I1I1II1II' when I
I1IIIII1I that tlI1II'1I II .II "M alI1II1I tlII'1I1I III1I II that I1Il|1III1I1I
hiIII . IIIIII still III1Ir1I "as I 1I-II11I1Ir1Ig1I1I IIII1 II I l1IIIII1I
that II1I 1IIIt11tII|I|I11I III1I IIII 1I\1-1II11IiIIglII iII IuIIIIiIIg .aII1l
gaiIaIIl gI1IIIII1I 1II tII1I I'III . .III that it II1I 1I1III|1I hut II1iI1l it
I1II' hall au II1IIII, I .IIIII' casilI II1I II1IIII1I IaiII'II got away
from tIIIIIII all.

'I'II1II'1: "as II1ItII'1I1III than and my math IIIC cr1I1II1'.
IIlIich I III1IIIti1III1I1l often in the hut part of my .I'torI','uswu' M' at

 

0F aomssos causoe. 191

where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wrotelt would be taken there: but when the savage
escaping came thither,ho made nothing ofit, though the
tide was then up; but plunging in, swam through in
about thirty strokes, or thereahouts, landed. and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiflness. \Vhen the
three persons came to the creek, I found that two of
them could swim, but the third could not, and that
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but
went no farther. aml soon after went softly back again ;
which. as it happened, was very well for him in the
end. I observed thatthe two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek, as the fel-
low was that tied from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now
was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a com-
'mltiult or assistant, and that I was plainly called by
Providence to save this poor creature's life. I imme-
diately ran down the ladders with all possible expedi-
tion, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and getting
up again with the same haste to the top of the bill, I
rrossed towards the sea, and having a very short cut,
and all down hill, placed lll_\ self in the way between the
pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that
tled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much
frightened at me as at them; but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come back; and in the mean time I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed ; then
rushing at once own the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stoc' of my piece. I was loath to tire,
because I would not have the rest hear; though, at
that distance. it would not have been easily heard, and
being out of sight of the smoke too, they would not
have easily known what to make of it. Having knock-
ed this fellow down, the other who )ursned him step-
ped. as if he had been frightened, am I advanced apace
towards him: but as I came nearer, I perceived pre-
sently he had a how and arrow, and was fitting it to
shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him
tirst, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The
rnor saingc who llt'tl. hat that stn \pt'tl, though he saw
mth his cncmics fallcn and hillcil. as ho thought. yet
was so t'rightcnctl with tho llt't' aml nniso of my picoo.
that ho stnml stock still. and neithcr camc t'nrwaril nor
wcnt hack ward. though ho sccmml rathcr inclinml still
to fly than to comc on. I hallonml again to him. and
mmtc signs to main forward. which ho casily mnlcr-
stonil. aml calnc a littlo way; thcn stoppcil again. and
thcn a litllc tin-thcr. and stoplwtl again; Illtl I cnnhl
thcn pcrccivcthat hc stood trcmhling'. us it' ho hml hocn
'lll\('" prisnncr. amt had just hccn to ho killed. as his
two cnmnics worn. I lici'hnuml to him ug'ttitt to <<onto
to inc. and g'm-c him all tho signs of cncouragcincnt
that l conhl think nt'; aml hc camc ncarcr aml ncarcr.
ltnccling' clown cvcry tcn or twolvo stcph. in tnkcn nt'
nchnowlcilg'mcnl for saving his lit'c. l smilcil at him.
nml lnokcil plcasantlv. aml hcclmncd to hint to cnmn
still ncarm': at lcngth ho camo closc to mo; and thou
hc hncclcil down again. kisscil tho ground. and laid his
hcait ttlmtt tho ground. and taking mo hy tho font, set
my foot upon his hcail; this it sccms was in tolu'tt nt'
swcarinar to ho mv slavc for ovcr. I took him up. and
Illfltlt' much of him. aml cncnnragtctl him all lconlil.
lint thcro was ninrc work tn iln .'Ni for I pm'i'civcil
thc satagc whom I hnnclwd down was not killcil. hot
.stnnnctl with tho blow, and hogan tn onmc tn himsclr:
so I lltlllllt'tl tn him. and shnwcil him thc savaac. that
ho was not ilcail; upon this ho spolm sonic words tn
inc, and though I ('tlllltl not nmlcrstaml thcm. yct I
thought thc_\- wvro plcusunt to hour; for thvy wvro tho
first sound ot. a man's \'oicc that I had hvaril. my own
c\ccptcil, for ahovo twcutylivo yours. lint thcl'o was
no timc for such rctlcctinns now; tho savago who was
httttt'lu'tl tltthl rccni-crcil himscll' so far as tn sit up
upon thc ground. and l porccivcil that my savagn hcgnn
tn hc at'raiil ; hut whcn I saw that. I mounted my other
piccc at tho man. as it~ I would shoot him: upon this
nw savagc. for so I call him now, mmln a motion to mo
tu- lcml him my sword. which hung nahcil in u holt hy
nn- siilc. which I llltl. No no snoncr had it. hot ho
ruins to his cncmy. and. at can hlnw. cut oil' his head

so clcicrly, nn csccntioncr in Germany could haw
done it sooner or hetter ; whieh I thought very strange
for one who. I had reason to heliet'e, never saw a sword
in his life Iu-fore, event their own wooden swords:
however. it seems. as I learned afterwards, they make
their wooden swords so sharp. so heavy. and the wood
is so hard. that they will even eat otl' heads with them.
an and arms. and that at one hlow too. \Vlten he had
done this. lte eomes laughing to tne in sign of triumph,
and brought me the sword again, and with ahundaneo
ut' gestures whieh I did not understand. laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before. me. Ilut that whielt astonished hi-m most, was
to know how I killed the. other Indian so far oII': so
pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
hint; so I hade him go. as well as I eould. \Vhen he
value to him. he stood like ttltn amazed. looking at him,
turning him lirst on one side. then on the other, looked
at the wound the hullet had made, whieh, it seems was
just in his hreast, where it had tuade a hole, and no
great ( uantity of ltItNttI had followed; httt he had hled
inward y. for he was quite dead. He took up his how
and arrows, and eame haek; so I turned to go away,
and heekoued him to follow me. making signs to him
that more might eotttt' alter them. l'lmll this. he made
signs to me that he should hury them with sand, that
they might not he seen hr the rest. if they followed; and
so I made signs to him again to do so. He f: It to work ;
and in an instant he had seraped a hole in the sand with
his hands, hig enough to bury the first in, and then
dragged him into it. and eowred him; and did so by
the other also: I helime he had huried them both in a
quarter of an hour. 'I'heu calling him away, I earried
him. not to my eastle. hut quite away to my care, on
the farther part ot'the island : so ldid not let my dream
eotttt'tu pass in that part. viz. that he eame into my grove
for shelter. Ilere I gave him bread and a huneh of
raisins to eat. and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and
lie down to sleep, showing him a place where] had laid

some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to
\' 01.. t. 0
sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay
down. and went to sleep.

He was a eomely, handsome fellow. ierh'etly well
made. with straight strong limbs. not too large. tall and
well shaped '. and. as l reekon. about twenty-six years
of ago. He had a very good eountouam'e, not a tioree 3
and surl) aspeet. but seemed to have something very :
manly in his tiioe ; and _\et he had all the sweetness and 1
soflness of an I'Iurop 'an in his mumtenanee too, espe- 3
eially when he smiled. His hair was long and blaek. l
not enrlod like wool ; his forehead Very high and large ;
and a great \ iraeity and sparkling sharpness in his (wes.
'l'he colour of his skin was not quite blaek, but very
tawnv; and yet not an ugly. _\e||ow. nauseous tawny.
as the lh'azilians and \ irginians. and other natives of
Ameriea are. but of a bright kind of a dun olive eolour.
that had in it something very agreeable. though not
\ err easy to deseribe. llis faee was round and plump:
his'nose small. not flat like the Negroes; a very good
mouth. thin lips, and his tine teeth well set, and as
white as ivory.

Alter ho had slumbered. rather than slept. about
half an hour. he awoke again. and rame out ot'tho t'ttH)
to me. for I had been milking my goats, which I had in
tho enelosure just by: when he espied me, he eame
running to me. laying himself down again upon tho
ground. with all the possible signs of an bumble thank-
t'ul disposition. making a great many antio gestures to
show it. At last, he lays his head tlat upon the ground. ,:
eloso to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head.
as ho had done before; and alier this, made all the
signs to mo of subjeetion, servitude, and submission,
imaginable. to let mo know how he would serve me so
long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him.

In a little time I began to speak to bnn. and teach him
to speak to me; and first I let him know his name
should ho l"n l oar, whieh was the day I saved his life:
I ealled him so for the memory of the time. I like-
wise taught him to say Master; and then let him know
that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say
Yes and No, and to know the meaning et'them. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me
drink it before him, and sop my bread in it; and gave
him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made signs that it was very good
for him. l he it there with him all that night; but as
soon as it was day, I lu-ekonod to him to come with me,
and let him know I would give him some clothes; at
which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where ho had buried the two
men, he pointed exactly to the place. and showed me
tho marks that ho had made to find them again, making
signs to me that we should dig them up again, and eat
them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my
ahhorreuoo of it. made as il' i would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and heokoned with my hand to him to
t'otttt' away; which he did immediately, with great sub~
mission. I then led him up to the top ofthe hill, to see
it' his enemies were gone; and pulling out my lass, I
looked, and saw plainly the place where they ha been,
hot no appearance of them or their canoes; so that it
was plain they were gone, and had left their two com-
rados hehind them, without any search afler them.

lint I was not content with this discovery; hut hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curi-
osity. I took my man Friday with me, giving him the
sword in his hand. with the how and arrows at his
hack. which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and 1 two for my-
self; and awav wo marched to the lace where these
creatures had heen; for I had a min now to at some
t'ulh-r intelligence of them. \Vhen I came to t 0 place,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk
within me, at the horror of the spectacle; indeed, it
was a dreadful si ht, at least it was so to me, though
lr'riday made not ring of it. The )lace was covered
with human bones.tho ground dye with their blood,
and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant t'east they'had been making there, after
a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the hones of three or four legs and feet, and
ahnndauce of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by
his signs, made me understand that they brought overIS'I'I HI-'I-t ,IIIII ,IIIIII-zm'IIIIIss

IIIIIII [IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII III II III! IIIIIIII; IIIIII IIIIIIIII III IIIIIIII II IIIII
IIIIIIIII IIII. IIIIII IIIIII IIII. IIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIII'." IIIIIII IIIII
"HUI"; IIIIII IIIIII'II IIIIII IIIIIIII II gIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIII IIIIII IIIII III III \I IIIIIg', III' II IIIIIIII SIIIIIIIII III. II IIIIIIIIIII.
IIII IIIIII IIII I II IIIIII. IIIIII IIIIII IIIIII IIIIII INIII' II II III-III III IIIIIII-
IIIIII III IIIINIIIII'Is; IIII IIIIII II IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII III IIIII IIIIIIIII

IIIIIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIII IIIIII IIIIH'II IIIIIIII III IIIII IIgIII. III
IH'III'I' III I'IIIIIII ll'NHI IIII III. III IIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIII IIIIIIIII
IIIIIIII IIII II IIIIIIII IIIUNI' IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIII I

I ('IHIN II II IIIIIII' III gIIIIIIII' IIII IIIII HIIIIIIS. IIIIIIIIII. IIIIIIII.
IIIIII IIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIII. IIIIII IIII "II III IIIIIIIIIIIIII in II
IIIIIIII. IIIIII IIIIIkII II gIIII III IIIIII IIIIIHI II. IIIIII IIIII'II IIIIIIII IIII
III IIIIIIs. I IIIIIIIII I-'IIIIIII IIIIII IIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIg IIIII-
IIIIIIIII IIIIIII MIIIII' III IIIII III \II and II III .IIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIII
In his IIIIIIIIIII; IIIII I IIIM' IIIIII IIIIII IIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII'IIIIIIIIII III
IIIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII III II. IIIIII III IIIII II IIIII III II III'IIIIIIII III
II. IIIIII IIII IIIIIsI IIIII IIIIIIIIII III II: IIIII I IIIIII. III IIIIIIIII
IIII'IIII". IIII IIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIII I IIIIIIIII IIIII him. If IIII III'-
I'I'I'I'II II.

"III II IIII IIIIII IlIIIIII IIIIII. II II IIIIIIIII IIIII II III IIIII' IIIIsIIII. deg
IIIIII IIIIIIIII I II III III "IIIII IIII IIIII IIIIIII I I'IIIII I ; IIIIII IIIIIII
III II". I gIIIIII IIIIII II 'IIIII' III IIIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIs. IIIIIII III I IIIIII
IIIII III IIIII IIIIIII' gIIIIIIIIII .II IIIIIIsI l IIII IIIIIIIII II IIIIII II I
IIIIIIIII III IIIII \"I'I'I'II; IIIIII IIIIII II. IIIIII II IIIIIII IIIIIIIIII-
IIIIII. IIIIII III IIIIII II_IIIII III;IIII IIIIII "II II I IIIIIIIII IIIIII II jIIr-
IIIII III gm" 5 \IIIII. III- II IIII III; "III skill II IIIIIII IIIIIIII' (for
I was IIIIIII gIIIII II II IIIIII IIIIIIIII gIIIIII IIIIIIIII); and I g!" II
IIIIII II HIP IIIIII II I IIIIIIIII III IIIIIII .IIIIIII. III II IIIIIIIII IIIIIIII.
IIIIII IIIsIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIg'II: IIIIII IIIIIII IIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIII II I'IIII
IIIII III'IIIIII III IIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIII. IIIIII II III IIIIIIIIIII III II lIlII IIM' II
III IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIII IIIII III I IIlIIIIII II IIII IIIII IIIII'III I It
Is IIIIII. IIII IIIIIIII Il\\I\\\'IIIIII)' III IIH'M' IIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIII;
II I'flrlllg' IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIII II III IIIIII IIII II II IIIII III IIIIII. IIIIII IIIII
.IIIIIII '08 III IIIII IIIIIIsIIIIIIII gIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIrs. IIIIII IIIII
IIIhIIII' III IIIII .'IIIIIS'. IIIII II IIIIIII IIIIIIIII: IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII IIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II IIIII III IIIIII him. and IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIII,
IIII IIIIIII III IIII III III III IIIIIIIII I'III'I' II IIII

'IIIII II('\I II.I_I IIIlIIII I IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIII III IIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIII
lIIIII.l IIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIIIIIII III'IIIIIII I IIIIIHIIII IIIIIgII him;
and IIIIII l IIIIIIIII IIII IIII III IIII IIIIII. IIIIII IIII lIII IIIIIII'IIcIIII
IIIIsy IIIIsIIII. l IIIIIIIII II IIIIIII IIIIII IoII IIIIII III IIIII IIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIII' IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII. III IIIII IIIIIIIIII ofIIIe
IIIIII. and in IIIII IIIIIsIIIc III IIIII first. .\:I IIIcIo was II
door or entrance there into my care, I ""1th a formal
ti'atnetl tloor ease, and a tltlttt' to it of hoards, and set. it
up in the passage. a little within the entrance; and
causing the door to open in tho inside, I lmrrcd it up
in tho night. taking in my holders too; so that Friday
t'tttlltl no way come at me in the inside of my innermost
wall. without making so innch noise in getting over
that it must needs walten me; for my tirst wall had now
it complete rool'orer it of long poles, covering all my
tent. and leaning up to tho sitto ot'tho hill; which was
again laid ueinss with smaller stit'lut. instead of laths,
lllltl then thatched over a great thickness with tho rice
straw. which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place Wltlt'll was left to go in or out hy the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trapdoor. which, it' it had been at-
tempted on tho nutsnle, would not hate opened at all.
but would hate fallen down and made a great noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night.
ltnt I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful. loving, sincere servant that)
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or de-
signs, perfectly oliligetl and engaged; his very sti'co'a
tions were tied to me. lilm those of a child to a father:
and I dare say he thttltl have sacrificed his life for the
NH inkr mine. upon any occasion whatsoever: the many
testimonies ho gate mo of this put it out of doubt. and
soon t'.0ll\'iltt't'tl me that I needed to use no precautions,

as to any safety on his account.

This frequently gave one occasion to observe, and
that with wonder. that howchr it had pleased God, in
his iriwiilenec. and in the government of the works ot~
his imnds, to take from so great a nut ot'tho world of
his creatures the host uses to whio t their faculties and
the powers of their souls are adapted, 'et that he has
lwstowed upon them the same powers, the same reason.
tho satno atl'ections, the same sentiments of kindness
and obligation, the same passions and resontments of
wrongs. the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity,
amt all the capacities of doing good. and receiving
good. that he has given to as; and that when he pleases
to otl'er thent occasions of exerting these, they are as
ready. nay, tnore ready, to ap ily them to the right uses
for which they were bestowed, than we are. This made
me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the
several occasions presented, how mean a use we make
of all these, even though we have these powers enlight-
ened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of his word added to our under-
standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the like
saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who,
if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a
much better use of it than we did. From hence, I
sometimes was led too far, to invade the sovereignty of
Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of so
arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect
a like duty from both; but I shut it up, and checked
my thoughts with this conclusion: first, That we did
not know by what light and law these should be con-
demned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the
nature of his being, infinitely holy andjust, so it could
not be, but if these creatures were all sentenced to ah--
sence from himself, it was on account of sinning against
that light, which, as the Scripture says, was a law to
themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to bejust, though the foundation was not
discovered to us; and secondly, That still, as we all
are the clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could
say to him " Why hast then formed me thus 9"

But to return to my new companion :-----l was greatly

  
 

lily a\.\\\\ it

   

" 'x
, V

delighted with him, and made it my business to teach.
him every thing that was preper to make hnn useful,
handy, and he! rful ; but especially to make him speak,
and understan me when I spo e: and he was the
aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so
merr , so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he
coult but understand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very )Ieasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to is so easy that I began to say to my-
self, that could I but have been safe from more savages,

leared not if I was never to remove from the place
where I lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to m
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday 01
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh; so I took him out with me one morning to the
woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I saw a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of
lt'riday;--Hold, said I, stand still; and made signs to
him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage,
his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine how
it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so amazed that I thought he would
have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or
perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wounded; and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kueeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand;

but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me not
to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did:
and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By
and by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a littleL'UI) I.II'l-2 \N n ..\n\' FN'I'I'II I"SS

wImI l \I-nnhl III>>. I I'IIIII'II him In mv again. IminIml Ill
Iho I'Iml. whivh mm IIIIII'I'II II pIII-rnI. IIInIIgh I Ilmnghi
iI IIIIII III'I'II II lanlx ; I any. pninIing In Ihn 'IIII'I'III, IIIIII
In my gun. and In Ihv ginnml IIIIIII'I' Ilw 'IIII'I'III. In In
him um I \Innhl IIIIIIw iI IIIII. I mmln him IIIIIII'I'IIIIIIHI
IIIIII I "'IIIIIII shnnI IIIIII hill IIIIII IIII'II; III'I-nIIIiIIgly. I
Iii-ml. IIIIII hmlv him IINII\. IImI immmlIIIII'II' hn saw Ihv
pan-um IIIII. III' .sInnII liIIn nnn Irig'thnml again. IIuI

"ilhslnmlmg all I IIIIII SIIIII In him; and I l'nmul I... "m.
Ihn IIIIIII' Inna/ml. Irma-nun III' IliII IInI svn Inn lull Inn -
IlIing inIn Ilu' gun. hnl IhnnghI IhIII Ihmv mnsI hv mm
"nmlmlnl IIIIIII nI III "III IIIIII III'sIIIII'IInn in find IIIillgz'.
IIIIII' In IIIII mun. IwIIsI. hinl, nr IIII)IIIIIII{ III'III' III' Im-
nIl'; IIIIII Ihv IIhIIIIIISIIIIII'III Ihis I'II'IIII'II in him was snrh
IIII ('IIIIIII ImI \wnr nll I'nr II lnng Iimn; IIIIII. I III'III'\'I'. N
I "'nnhl haw IvI him. hn "(IIIIII hmn wmshipml mv
IIIIII nu gun. -\.~ Inr Ihn gun iIsI'II'. hv \I-nnhl nnI .m
IIIIN'II IIh IIIIII'II iI I'nr N'I'I'I'III (III)! IIIII'I'; IIIII IIn \rnnhl
IIIII'IIII In iI. ImII IIIII\ In M. as if iI hInl IIIIstII'II him,
"hon hr "In. In himwll; which, as I IIIII'InIIIIIn II'III'II

('II III him. "us In III'SIII' II IInI In lull him. "'I'll. IIIII'I'
his IIsInni~hmvnI "IIN II IiIIlv an'r III IIIis, I I'IIIIIII'II In
him In IIIII ImII I'I'II'II IIII' hiIIl I had .shnI. nhIrh hv IIiII,
ImI .sIIIiII .snmn Iimv; fur Ilm IIIII'I'III, IInI Iwing' IIIIIII'
IlnIIII. hml IIIIIII'I'I'II II\\II_\' II IznnII IIisIIIIII-v I'rnm IIII~ pIIII-n
whmv shv Ivll: hnnrurr. hn Innml hvr. InnL III'I' IIID.
IIIIII IvrnIIghI IH'I' In Inn . IIIIII as I lIIIIl 'N'l'I'I'I'I'II his i}:

IIIH'IIIII'I' IIIu-III IIII' gun hrIan'. l Innh IlIis IIIIIIIIIIIIgn In
I'hIIrgv IIII' gun IIgIIiII. IIIIII IInI In |I~I him awn mn Iln iI.
IlnII ImighI IN' II'IIII_\' Ii-I' IIII) nIhm- IIIIII'I\ IIHII migIII
)I'I'M'III', IIIII nnlhing IIInIn IIIII'II'II III IIIIII IimI': IInI
Iu'nnghl III'IIII' Ihv I\III.IIIIII Ihv sumo mvning I Innh IIII'
skin MI. and I'III iI nnI us \uvll Ila I vnnhl; IImI Inning II
linI IiI IIH' IIIIII pnrpnw. I IIIIIII'II nr .sImeI snmn nI'Ihn
III'sII. IIIIII mmlv Immv \I'I'y gnnil hrnIII. :'llI'I' I IIIIII
Iwguu In I'III snmr. l gum snmn In my man. \IIIn svvmnl
\I'I'\ ghIII M ii. IIIIII IIIwII iI \'I'I'y well; IIIII IlIIII which
\IIISSaIIIIIIgI-al In him "as In "'0 mo I'III MIII "IIII iI. Iln
IIIIIIII' II sign In mv IIIIII IlIn IIIIII mm IInI gnnII In em;
and pIIIIin;.;~ II liIIln inIn his own mnIIIII, he <<owned In

IIaIIvaIIn iI.IImI "'UIIIII apiI IIIIII I~pIIIII~r III N. washing
his IIInIIIlI "IIII I'I'I'III "'IIII'I' IIIII'I' II. on IlIc IIIIIcI' INIIIII,
I Inolt aomo moat into my month without salt, and I
.rvtrndml to apit and apnttrr for want of salt, at fast as
lm had dono at tho salt; hot it would not do; ho would
nowr vnro t'or aalt with hia "IN" or in Ilia ln'OIIt; at
least not for a great whilv, and thou hut a wry littlo.

Ilaving thna l'vd him with hoilml nn-at and hroth. I
waa rvaolrvd to front him thv IIt'\I day with roaating a
pirrv of tho laid: this I did by hanging it le'oro tlw
tirr on a string. on I had awn many people do in Fung-
hmd. at-tting two polva up, our on vault tIItIt' ot'tho tire,
and our arroaa on tho top, and tying tltv string to the
<<worm ativk. lvtting tho moat turn continually. 'I'hia
Friday admin-d rvry much; hut whvn ho oamo to taato
tho tloah. Ito took so many waya to tell mo how well he
"land it. that I ronld not hot umloratand him: and at
hot ho told mv, as well as ho could. ho would uovrr
rut man'a tlvsh any morv, which I was very glad to
Iu-ar.

'I'ho nrxt day. l avt him to work to boating some
rorn out, and sitting it in tho manner I used to do, as
l ohavrrod lwt'orv; and ho anon understood how to do
it as wall as I. vspm-ially alter ho had seen what tho
moaning of it was. aml that it was to malw bread of;
tor nl'lvr that I lrt him are too make my broad. and bake
it too; and in a Iittlo timo Friday was ablo to do all the
work for mu. as well as I ronld do it myaoll'.

I hogan now to consider. that having two mouths to
ford instrad of our. I must proridv moro ground for
my harrmt, and plant a largor quantity of corn than I
naval to do; an I marked out a larger piece ofland, and
hogan the forum in tho samo mannvr as before. in which
Friday worIu-d not only very willingly and very hard.
hat did it wry oln-ort'ully : and I told him what it was
for; that it was for corn to malm moro hrrad, because
ho was now with me, and that I might have onough for
him and mysvlt'too. llo appvared very aensihlo ot'thnt
tart. and lot mo know that he thought I had much more
labour upon mo on his account. than I had for myself;
andthat ho would work tho harder for mu. ifl would
tvll him what to do.

This was the plcnsautrst your of all the life I led in
this )laeo; Friday he an to talk pretty well, and under-
stam the names of a most every thing I had occasion
to call for. and of every place I had to send him to,
and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I he-
gan now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to
say, about speeeh. Besides the pleasure of talking to
him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself:
his simple unteigned honesty appeared to me more and .
more every day, and I began really to love the crea-- "
ture ; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more than
it was possible for him ever to love anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he lmd any hankering in-
clination to his own country again; and having taught
hiln English so well that he could answer me almost
any question. I asked him whether the nation that he
belonged to never eonquered in battle? At which he
smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always tight the. bet-
tcrz" that is, he meant. always get the better in tight;
and so we began the following; discourse :

Muster. You always tight the better; how eamc
you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?

Friday. My nation beat mneh for all that.

Masher. flow heat? If your nation beat them, how 5
came you to be taken? 3
Ideg'ridug. 'l'hey more many than my nation, in the i

i

  
 

place where me was; they take one, two, three, and
me: my nation over-heat them in tho yonder place.
where me no was; there my nation take one, two,
great thousand.

film-(er. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and ,
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that i
time. :

Muster. \Vell, lt'rida ', aml what does your nation
do with the men they ta 'e? Do they carry them away
and eat them, as these did?

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.

Master. \V here do they earr ' them?

1"ridoy. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. [)0 they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other

' else place.

Master. Have you been here with them?

, Fridu . Yes, I have been here (points to the N.\V.
side et't to island, which, it seems, was their side).

' ll thisl understood that my man lt'riday had for-

, mer y been amenr the savages who used to come on

_ shore on the fart ier part of the island, on the same

man-eating occasions he was now brought for; and,

some time after, when I took the courage to carry him
to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he

presentl knew the place, and told me he was there
once, w ten they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child: he could not tell twenty in English, but he

numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after I had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that
after a little way out to sea, there was a current and

wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the
afternooon. This I understood to be no more than the
sets ot'the tide, as going out or coming in ; but I after-
wards understood ll. was occasioned h the great drnlt
and retlux ofthe mighty river Greene '0, in the month
or gulf of which river, as I found afterwards, our island
lay; and that this land which I ierceired to the \V.
and N.\V. was the great island ' riuidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a
thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants
the sea. the coast, and what nations were near: he told
me all he know, with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort
0f people, but could get no other name than Cariba:
from whence I easily understood, that these were the
(Paribbees, which our maps place on the part of Ame-
rica which reaches from the mouth of the river Oreo-

noko to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told'E'Ot LII-'t-Z AMI .IIIIII~.MIIIIII;s

IIIII, that up II gIIIIIIt WM IIIIIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIII, that was.
IIIII IIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIIIg III IIIII IIIIIIIII. IIIIIIIII IIIIIst IIII \IIIat
IIIIIII IIH'II' IIIIIIItiI. IIIIIIII IIIIIIII IIIIitII IIIIIIIIIIIII tIIIIII
IiIIII IIIII. :IIIII 'ltlIIIIt'tI III IIII gIIIIat IIIIisIIIIIs. IIIIiIIIII
IIIII IIIIUIII' III IIIIIIIIIII'. and that IIIIII IIIIII IIIIII'II IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIs.
tIIIIt II II~ his II IIIII III IIII II IIIIIh I IIIIIIIIIstIIIIII III' IIII IIIII
IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIs. IIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIIIIII iII .-\IIIIIIiIIII IIIIII III-IIII
sIII-II IIIII III II "III IIIIIIIII, IIIIIIIItI-I . IIIIII \"t'lt' II IIIII IIIIIIIIIIII
III :III thII IIIIIiIIIIs. I'IIIIIII I'IIIIIIIII III 80".

I IIIIIIIII'I'II It' IIII IIIIIIIII tIIII IIIII hIIw I might 30 from
this Island and got IIIIIIIIIIg IIIIIIII IIIIitII IIIIIII.' IIII tIIIII Illt',
\ IIs. IIIs. IIIII III: II 1:0 in IIIII I IIIIIIII. I IIIIIIIII IIIIt IIIIIIIII -
stIIIIII IIIIIII IIII IIII- .IIII. III IIIIIIIII hiIII IIIIsIII'iIIII III me what
hII IIII :IIII III IIIII II :IIIIIII; II" III lust. II itlI gIIIIIIt IIIIIiIIIIIII .
l IIIIIIIII IIII IIII'IIIII it ttltlhI III' in II IIIIgII IIIIIIt. as III}: as
III-II IIIIIII-IIs. 'IIIis 'NIII III II II'iIIIII .Is IIIsII tHllSt' IIIIgIIII III
l't'IIhIl IIIIII IIIII III II IIIIII; IIIIII ti'IIIII this IiIIIII I ('IIII'II
IIIIIII-Il .IIIIIIII hIIIIIIs thIIt. IIIIII tiIIIII III IItIIIIII. I might
find an II'IIIIIIIIIIIIII III IIIIIIH' IIIII t'M'II'N' t'IIIIII this
IIIII II. and IIIIII this IIIIIIII aIIIIIgII might IIII :I IIIIIIIIIII III
III'I'I tllt'.

IIIIIIIIg tlIII IIIIIII tiIIIII IIIIII I IiII: II II.III IIIIII .IN' IIIII with
IIIII. and that IIII IIIIgIIII tII S'lt'IIIK III IIIII IIIIII IltItIt'l'bII'IIIII
IIIII. I IIzIs IIIIt IIIIIIIIIIIg III IIII II IIIIIIIIIaIIIIII III' I'IIIigiIIIIs
kIIIHVIt'IIat' in his mind; IIIII'tiIIIIIIII'II I IIsIIIIII IIiIII IIIIII
IIIIII'. \VIIII IIIIIIIII hiIII : 'I'IIII IIUIH' IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIt IIII-
IIIIIIstIIIIII IIIII III IIII. IIIII IIIIIIIghI I IIIIII IISIII'II him who
"as his IIIIIII'I'I but I tank It IIII III IIIIIIIIIIII' IIIIIIIIIII. IIIIII
IIsIIIIII IIIIII IIIIII IIIIIIIII IIH' M'N. IIIII gIIIIIIIIII II'II II'IIIIIIIII IIII.
IIIIII IIIII hills IIIIII \\'IHHI.\I IIII IIIIII IIIII. it was IIIIII IIIII
IIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIII. IINII IiIIIII IIIIIIIIIII IIII. ' IIII IIIIIIIII tIt'St'I'IIIII
IIIIIIIiII;..r III thi' _:'l't III IIIIIIsIIII. but that IIII II'IIII I'IIIIv IIIII.
IIIIIIIII UItIt I. IIII :IIIl. IIIIIII IIIII sIIII III IItt' IIIIIII. IIIIIII IIIII
IIIIIIIII III' IIIII MIIIS. I IIsIIIIII IIiIII IIIIIII. it this IIIII IIIIIISIIII
IIIIII IIIIIIIII IIII things IIIII IIiII IIIII IIII things II'IIIIsIIiI
him? IIII ItNIIIttI \t't"\ LII" II and IIIIII II IIIII II III IIIIIII
IIt' iIIIIIII IIIII II sIIiII. .\|I things sIII () tII IIIIII. I III'IIIIIII
IIIIII it tho IN'IIPII' IIIIII IIIII III his IIIIIIIIIIII II IIIII IIII'IIy IIIII'
""III'II'." IIII MIIII. \ IIs; IIIIII IIII Wt'llI III IIIIIIIIIIIIIcIIIIII. .
tho" I asked IIIIII II IIIIIIIIII' these "my out up went IIIiIIIIII
IIIII 5 He said. \.('5.m: nnmnsnn ruusos. 905

From them things I hogan to instruct hint in tho
tnnwledgo nt' tho trno (lnd: l tnld him that tho groat
Maker nl' all things lived up there. pointing up tnwarda
lu-nvon; that ho gnrnrnnd thn wnrld hy the same power
and prnridvnen Irv whivh he made it; that ho watt nm'
mlmtont. aml vnnld dn every thing for us. give every
thing tn us. taltn every thing from us; and thus, hy
dvgrves. I opened his eyes. [In listened with great
attention. and l't't't'l\'t'tl with pleasure the notion of
.h-sns Christ living sent to redeem us. and of the man-
an nt' making nnr warms to (lnd. aml his being ahlo
tn hear us. even in lwarvn. He told mo one day. that
it'nnr (3nd nnnld hear us up hoynnd tho sun, he must
nnnds ho a greater tlnd than their llnnamuelsoo. who
lived but a little way ntl'. and yet onnld not hear till
they went up tn the great mountains where he dwelt
tn speak tn him. I asked him it' ever he wont thither
tn speak tn him.' He said. Nn; they never went that
were ynnng men; nnnv wont thither hat the old men,
whom he eallvd their Uankalu-n; that is, as I made
him explain it tn me. their religious, or olergy; and
that they wont tn say 0 (so he called saying prayers).
and then name hack. and told them what llenamuekoo
said. lls this I nhsnrwd. that there is prinstcratt even
:nnnng the must hlimlml ignorant pagans in the world;
and the pnlier nf making a secret of roliginu. in order
I>> preserve the \ ennratinn of tho ionplo tn tho clergy,
is not only tn he found in the toman, hut )erhapa
:unnng all religions in the world, even among t to most
hrntish and Inn harnus savages.

I ondoarourml to clear a i this fraud to my man
Friday; aml told him. that tlho pretence of their old
nu-n gning up tn the mnnutains to say 0 to their god
llt'llllllllltllat't' was a rhvat; and their bringing word
from tlwnen what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any answer. or spake with any one there,
it must he with an e\ il spirit: aml then I entered into
a long discourse with him about the devil, the original
ut' him, his rehellion against God, his enmity to man,
the reason of it, his setting himsell'np in the dark parts
of the world to ho worshiped instead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to deludo
mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to
our passions and to our all'ections, and to adapt his
snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be
our own tcmpters, and run upon our destruction by our
own choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in
his mind about the devil as it was about the being of ,
a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence ,
to him even the necessity of a great First Cause, and
overruling, governing Power, a secret directing Pro- '.
videncc, and of the equity and justice of paying homage
to him that made us, and the like; but there appeared
nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of
his original, his being, his nature, and, above all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too:
and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a man-
ner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that I
scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipo-
tence, his aversion to sin, his being a consuming tire to
the workers of iniquity; how, as he had made us all,
he could destroy us and all the world in a moment;
and he listener! with great seriousness to me all the
while. After this, I had been telling him how the
devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used
all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of
Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the
world, and the like. " Well," says Friday, " but you
say God is so strong, so great; is he not much strong,
much might as the devil 3--" Yes, yes," says I, " Fri-
day, God is stronger than the devil : God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down
under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations,
and quench his fiery darts."---" But," says he again,
" if God much stronger, much might as the devil, why
God no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?"
l was strangely surprised at this question; and, after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill ualil'ied for a casuist, or a solver
ot'diliiculties ; and at rst I could not tell what to say;
so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he
said; but he was too earnest for an answer, to forget
.is question, so that be repeated it in the very same
roken words as above. By this time I had recovered
{T nyself a little, and I said, " God will at last punish
1' him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is
_' to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with ever-
lasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday; but he re-
'; turns upon me, repeating my words, " Reserve at last!
; me no understand: but why notkill the devil now; not
' kill great ago?"---" You may as well ask me," said I,
_ " why God does not kill you and me, when we do
{ wicked things here that offend him: we are preserved
_ to repent and be pardoned." He mused some time on
;' this: " \Vell, well," says he, mighty affectionately,
' " that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again
: by him to the last degree; and it was a testimony to
. me, how the mere notions of nature, though they will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God,
' and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
' of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing
but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of redemption purchased for us, of a Me-
diator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor at the
t'ootstool of God's throne; I say, nothing but a revela-
tion from Heaven can form these in the soul ; and that
therefore, the gos el of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, I mean the QVord of God, and the Spirit of God,
promised for the guide and sanctifier of his pe0ple, are
the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men
in the saving knowledge of God, and the means of sal-
vation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sud-
den occasion of going out; then sending him for some-
thing a good way off, I seriously prayed to God that he
would enable me to instruct savingl y this poor savage;
assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the oor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the know edge of God
In Christ, reconciling him to himself, and would guide
me to speak so to him from the \VOrd of God, as his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his soul saved. When he came again to me, I enteredQua m n: .-\N n a nvamavates

iutn a lnm: iliwnursv with him upnn tho anhjm't nf tho

I'c'clvmptinu nf man hy thn Savinur nfthn wnrhl, aml nf

thn tlHt'ltlttt' nf thn unalwl wvavhml frnm hvaw'u. \'iz.
nf rnlwntam'v tnwm'ils (tml. aml faith in nni' hlvsaml
luml .lmna. l thvu v\ ilaimal tn him an wvll as l
i'nuhl. why nnr hlvssml I mlnvmm' tnnl\ nnt nu him tlw
uaturv nf ang'vla. hut thn amal anhraham; amt hnw.
tnr that wasnn. thn fallvn augvls hml un .slmi'n in tlw
rmlvmptinu; that ha vauw nuly tn thn lnat slump nfthn
hnnsv nt' lsravl. aml tlw film.

I hml. (tml hunws. mnw sinvm'ity than lsunwlmlgn

in all thv mnthmla I lnnl\ fnr this l'nnr m'vatnrv's iu- _

Mrnvtinu. aml must avhunwlmlgn. what I hvlivw all
that act upnu thn samn priuvi ilv will timl. that in lay-
ing things "l"'" tn him. I rval y infnrmml aml instrm't-
ml Inyanlt'iu many things that vithvr l tlltl nnt lunnw, nr
hml nnt fully "llll'it't'l't't' lwfnrn. hut "hirh nrrurrml
naturally In my miml npnn .warvhiug iutn thvm, fnr
tho iatnrmatinn nt' this pnnr muagv; aml l hml ltltlt't'
atli'vtinu in my imluiiy al'Ic-r thing's npnn this nm'aainu
than (WW I fnlt lwt'nw: an that. wlwtlu-r this pnnr "'lltl
\vrntvh was tlw lwttvr fnr mn nr un. I hml gu'at rvaanu
tn lm thanliful that t'\'t't' hn vamn tn uw; my grivf mt
lightvr npnu m0: my hahitatinn grvw rnmfnrtahln In
"W hvynml im'amn'v: aml whvu l l't'llt't'lt'tl that in this
snlitary lifn whivh l lliltl lwvu rnutimal tn. l hml unt

nnly hm'u tum-ml tn lnnlt up tn lwayvu mysvlf. aml tn

1%va tn thv laaml that ltllll hrnnght mn how. hut was
unw tn hn mmln an instrulm'ut. umlvr I'rnyiilmu'n, tn
saw thv lifn. aml. fnr aught t know. thn snul nf a pnnr
sayagv. aml hriug' him In tho truv lunnwlmlgv nf ruli--
ginu. aml nfthn t'lu istiaa clnvtriuv. that he might kunw
('lu'ist .lnsus. in whnm is lifn vtvrual ; I say, wlwn l H'-
tlm'tml npnn all thvsv things. a .sm'rvt jny ran thrnngh
mvry part nt' my aunt. amt l ti'vquvutly u-jnivml that
vn'r l was hrnught tn this plan'. which I luul an nftvu
Illnught Ihn mnst <<lrvailful nt' all atllictinus that vnuhl
pnsaihly haw hvfallvu mv.

l vnutiumal in this thankful frnmu all the rnmaimlvr
nf my timv ; aml thv mmwisatinu which vmplnyml thn
hnurs lwtwm'n li'riilay aml mn was such as mado tho
tlm'n years w hich we ll\'('tl there tngvtlu'r perfectly and

I!
eompletely happy, if any such thing as complete hap-
piness can be ormed in a snblnnar state. This savage
was now a good Christian, a much mtter than I ; though
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we
were or nally penitent, and comforted. restored peni-
tents. Ve had here the word of (led to read, and no
farther otl' from his 8 III'II to instruct, than if we had
been in England. I a ways applied myself. in reading
the Seriptures. to let him know, as well as I could, the
meaning of what I read; and he again. by his serious
inquiries and questionings. made me, as I said before,
a much better scholar in tho Scripture knowledge than
I should ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I cunnpt refrain from observing
here. also. from esperienee llt this retired part of my
life. viz. how inlinite and iiies pressible a blessing it is
that the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of sal-
\tIIItHI by Christ Jesus. is so plainly laid down in the
Word of (led, so easy to he received and understood,
that. as the bare reading the Scripture made me capa-
ble et' understamling enough of my duty to carry me
direetly on to the great work of sincere repentance for
my sins. and laying hold of a Saviour for life and sal-
ration. to a stated retermatien in practice, and obedience
to all God's mammals. and this without an teacher or
instructor. I mean human; so the same p sin instruc-
tion snllieiently served to the enlightening this savage
a-reature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I
llth(! known few equal to him in my life.

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and conten-
tion which have happened in the world about religion,
nhether nieeties in doctrines. or schemes of church
government. they were all pert'eetl useless to us, and.
for aught I can yet see. they have men so to the rest of
the world. \Ve had the sure guide to heaven, viz. the
word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfort-
able views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing
us by his word, leading us into all truth, and making
as both willing and obedient to the instruction of his
word. And I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge of the disputed points of religion, which

Q

have Ins e such confusions in the world. would have
vor. 1. I'CH) LII-1'2 AND Al)\'l-.N'I'UII I'IS

been to us, it' We enuld harenhtaiued it.--IIut I must
gn nu with the historical part nt'things, and take every
part in its order.

After Friday and I he 'ame more intimately aequaiut-
ed, aml that he enuld umlerstaml ahnnst all I said In
him, and speak pretty lluently though in hrnlxett Eng--
lish tn me, I acquainted him with m_\ nwn histnry, or at
least sn mueh of it as related to my enming tn this plaee.
how I had |i\ed here, aml hnw long: I let hitu into the
mysteiy. ltn' sueh it w as tn hiiu, til-gunpowder and hul-
Iet. and taught him hnw to shout. I gave him a knife.
w hieh he was wnnderl'ully delighted with: and I made
him a helt, with a t'rngr hanging In it, sneh as in Eng-
land we wear hangers in : and in the hog, instead of ::
hanger, I _'.;'a\e him a hatehet, whieh was IIUI nnly in
good a weapon in snme eases, but much more useful
upnn other neeasinns.

I deserihed tn him the enuntry of Europe, partieu~
Iarly England. whieh l eame from; how we lit ed, hnw
we wnishiped (.'nd, how we hehaved tn one another.
and how we. traded in shipstn all partsnt'the world. I
gave him an aeenunt nl' the wreek whieh I had heen on
lmard nl', aml shnwed him, as near as I enuld, the place
where she lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before.
and gone. I showed him the ruins of our lmat, whieh
we Inst when we eseaped, aml w hieh Ienuld not stir
with my whole strength then; hat was unw fallen al-
most all tn pieees. I'pnn St't'illg this heat, I": iday stnnd
musing; a git-at while, aml said nnthing. I asked him
what it was he studied upna.' At last, says he. " Me
see sueh lmat like enme tn plaee at my nation." I did
not understand him a g'ond while; hut, at last. when I
had examined farther into it, I understand by him, that
a heat, sueh as that had been, eame on shore upon the
country where he lived; that is. as he explained it.
was driien thither by stress ot' weather. I presently
imagined that some I'Zurnpeau ship must have been cast
away upon their enast, aml the heat might get loose
and (Iris e ashore; hat was so dull that I never once
thought of men making their eseape from a wreck thi-
thcr, much less whom-e they might come: so I only
inquired alter a description ot'tho boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him when he added
with some warmth, " We save the wlnte mans from

drown." Then I presently asked him, it' there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? " Yes."
he said; " the bent full of white mans." I asked him
how many? He told upon his lingers seventeen. I
asked him then what became of them? He told me,
" They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might he the men belonging to the
ship that was east away in the sight of my island, as I
now called it; and, who, after the ship was struck on
the rock, and they saw her inevitably lest, had saved
tln-mselves in their boat, aml were landed upon that
nild shore among: the savages. Upon this I required
of him more critically what was become of them; he
assured me they lived still there; that they had been
there about four years; that the savages let them alone,
and gave them vietnals to live on. I asked him how it
came to pass they did not kill them and eat them? lle
said, " No, the make brother with them;" that is,
as l understoo him, a truce; and then he added,

" They no eat mans but when make the war lightf'
that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come
to light with them, and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being
upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island,
from whence, as l have said, I had in a clear day dis-
revered the main or continent ol' America, Friday, the
Weather being very serene, looks very earnestly to-
wards the main land, and. in a kind of surprise. l'alls
a jumping aml dancing, and calls out to tne, for I was
at some distance from him. I asked him what was the
matter? " Ujoyl" says he; " 0 glad! there see my
country, there my nation!" [observed an extraordi-
nary sense ol' pleasure appeared in his face. and his
eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own
country again. This observation of mine puta great
many thoughts into me, which made me at first not so
easy about my new man Friday as I was before 5 and l:'t'.' urn-z AN n Ain'tcm'na t- s

Iuado no doubt hut that it' Friday could got hark lo

his own nation again. ho would not only forgot all ltts '
roligiou, but all his obligation to mo. and would lw &

torward onongh to give his countrymen an account of
mo. and mum hark porliaps with a huudrod or two
ol'thom. and nialw a toast upon mo. at whioh ho might
ho as worry as ho usod to ho with thoso of his ('llt'lttit's,
whou thoy woro talu'n in war. Ilut I wronged tho poor
honost oroaturo vorr mnoh. t'or whirh l was vorv sorry
atlorwards. llowoi'or. as my joalousy inoroasi'd. anll
hold mo somo woo 's. l was a hill" more oiroumspoot.
and not so familiar amt kind to him as hoforo: in whirl:
l was oortainly in tho wrong too; tho honost, gratot'ul
oroatnro having no thought ahout it. hut what rousistod
with tho host prinoiplos. liotli as a roligious Christian,

and as a gratol'ul trioml; as appoarod atlorwards to my
full satistiiotion.

\Vhilo my joalousy of him lastod. you may ho suro l
was oyory day pumping him. to soo it' ho would dis-
omor any of tho now thoughts whioh I susportod woro
in him: hot I found orory thing ho said was so houost
amt so innooont that I oonld that nothing to nourish my
suspioion; and. in spito of all my nnoasiuoss, ho mado
mo at last ontiroly iis own again; nor did ho in tho
toast porooivo that l was nnoasy , and thorotoio I could
not snspoot him ot'doooit.

(lno day, walking n i tho samo hill. hut tho woathrr
living hazy at soa. so I lat wo could not soo tho routi-
uont. l oallod to him, and said, " It'l'ltltn, do not you
wish yourself in your own oouutrr. yourown nationr"
-----" Yos." ho said. " l ho mnoh t) glad to ho at my
own nation." " What would you do tlioro.' said I:
" would you turn wild again. oat Inon's tlosh again. and
ho a sa\'a_.:'o. as you woro lwtoro?" Ilo. looked full of
oonoorn. and shaking his lioad, said. " No, no. lt'ridav
toll thoin to liro good; toll them to way God; toll
thom to oat oorn lu-oml. oattlo tlosh, mil ; uo oat man
again."-- -" \Vliy thou." said I to him, " thoy will kill
you." llo looltod giai'o at that, and then said, " No,
no; thoy no kill mo, thoy willing loro learn." llo
moant by this. thoy would ho willing to learn. "o
:uldcd, thoy loarncd much of the bearded minis that
rum" in the heat. Then I asked him if he would 0
hack to them. He smiled at that. and told me that lie
rould not swim so far. I told him. I would make a
ranoc for him. He told me he would go, if I would
go with him. " I go!" says I, " why. they will eat
me it' I come. there."---" No, no," as '3 he, " me make
they no out you; me make the much love you." lie
meant, he would tell them how had killed his enemies,
and saved his life, and so he would make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they
were to seventeen white men, or hearded men, as he
called them. who came on shore there in distress.

From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and sec it'l could possihly join with those heard-
rd men, who I made no doubt were Spaniards and l'or-
tnguosc: not doubting but il' l eonhl, we might find
some method to escape from thence, heing upon tho
mntiuent, and a good company together, hotter than I
could from an island forty miles 00' the shore, and
alone, without help. So, after sutno days, I took lt'ri-
day to Work again, liy way ol'discottrse. and told him 1
"mild give. him a boat to go hack to his own nation;
and accordingly, I carried him to m frigate, which lay
on tho other side of the island, am having cleared it
of water (for I always kept it sunk in water), I hrought
it out, showed it him. and we hoth went into it. I
found he was a most desterous fellow at managing it,
:qu would make it go almost as swit't again as I could.
So when he was in I said to him. " \Vell. now, Friday,
shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull at
my saying so; which it seems was, because he thought
the heat too small to go so far: I then told him I had
It bigger; so the next day I went to the lace where
the tirst hoat lay which I had made, hut w rich I could
not get into the water. He said that was big enough:
hut then. asl had taken no care of it. and it had lain
two or three and twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. lt'rida
told me such a boat would do very well, and weal
carry " much enough rittle, drink, bread 3" that was

his way of talking. '
Upon the whole, I was hy this time so hxed upon my
desiIrn of <<roing over with him to the continent that I
told him we would go and make one as big as that,
and he should {3'0 home in it. He answered not one
w0Id, but, looked very gIave and sad. lashed him
what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
" \Vhy 3ou angry mad with Friday? what me done?"
I asked him what he meant: I told him I was not angry
with him at all." No angry. I' ' sa3s he, repeating the
words several times, " why send Friday home away to
my nation "'--- " VV3h, . sans I " Friday did not you say
3011 wished 3011 were tlIeIe?" " Yes, 305, " sa3s he,
" wish be both there , no wish I' riday there, no master
t! Iere. " III a WOId, he would not lhiIIk of going there
without me. " I 0'0 there, Friday!" sa3-s I," what
shall I do there?" He returned very quick upon me
at this: " You do gIeat deal much good,' says he;

"you two h wild mans be good soheI, tame mans; 30o
tell them know God, pIav 0God, and live new lite."--

" Alas, FI'_.iIlay "' sa3s I, " thou knowest not what thou
sayest; I am but an ignmant man III3selt. "--- " Yes,
3es," says he, " you teachoe me good, you teachee
them gI.IoIl " --" No, no, FIida3', " says I. " you shall
go without me; leave me here to live by m 33s<3|I, asI
did betore. " IIe looked contused again at that "Old;
and runnintr to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. " What
must I do with this?" says I to him. " You take hill
Friday," says he. " What must] kill you for?" said I'
again. He returns ver 3 quick, " \Vhat you send Fri-
day away for? Take kill FIiday, no send Frida3 a33a33.'
I'Iiis he spoke so eaIIIestly that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a nerd I so plainly discovered the utmost
IIII'eetion in him to me, and a tiIm resolution in him,
that I told him then, and often after, that I would
neIer send him away from me, it he was willino to
stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a
settled aflbction to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, so I found all the foundation of his de-
sire to go to his own country was laid III his aIdent af-
fection to the people, and his hopes at my doing them
good, a thing which, as] had no notion of myself, so I
had not the least thought or intention or desire of un-
den-taking it. But still [ found a strong,r inclination to
my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the su p-
position gathered from the discourse, viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there: and therefore,
without any more delay, I went to work with ttriday,
to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There
were trees enough in the island to have built a little
tieet, not of periaguas or canoes, but. even of good large
vessels: but the main thing I looked at was, to get one
so near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to amid the mistake I committed at first. At
last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he know
much better than! what kind of wood was fittest for
it; nor can 1 tell, to this day, what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tree
we call fustie, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same colour and smell. Friday
was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out,
to make it for a boat, but. I showed him how to cut it
with tools; which, after I had showed him how to use,
he did very handily: and in about a month's hard
labour we finished it, and made it Very handsome;
especially when, with our axes, which 1 showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the
true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch
by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with
great case.

When she was in the water, and though she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. So I asked him if he would, and if
we might venture over in her. " Yes," he said, " we
venture over in her very well, though great blow
wind." However, I had a farther design that he knew
nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a sail, and
to tit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that
was easy enough to get; so I. pitched upon a straight
young cedar tree, which 1 found near the place, and
which there were great plenty of in the island: andl
set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him direc.
tions how to shape and order it. But as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I knew I bad old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had had
them now six and twenty years by me, and had not been
very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I
should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not
doubt but they were all rotten}; and, indeed, most of
them were so. However, I found two pieces, which
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to work;
and with a great deal of pains, and awkward stitching
you may be sure, for want of needles, I at length made
a three cornered ugly thing. like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usu-
ally our ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage, as it was such a one as I had to
the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary, as

related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,

viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making asmall stay, and a sail,
or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to wind-
ward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder
to the stern of her to steer with. I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and even ne-
cessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much
pains to do it, that at last I rought it to ass; though,
considering the many dull contrivances I ad for it that
failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as mak-
ing the boat.

'After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for, though he knew very well how to paddle a
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a
rudder; and was the most amazed when he saw me
work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder,
and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that
way, as the course we sailed changed; I say, when he
saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed.
However, with a little use, I made all these things fa-
miliar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that as to the compass ; I could ma e him understand
vcrv little of that. On the other hand, as there was
my little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any
fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a
compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by
night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy sea-
mus, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by
land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year

of my captivity in this place; though thethree last years
that I had this creature with me ought rather to be left
out of the account, my habitation being quite of another
kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anni-
versar ' of my landing here with the same thankfuluess
to Go for his mercies as at first; and if 1 had such
cause of acknowled ment at first, I had much more so
now, having such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
effectually and speedily delivered ; for I had an invinci-
ble impression u on my thoughts that my deliverance
was at hand, and tbatl should not be another year in this
place. I went on, however, with my husbandry; digging,
planting, and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my
grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.

The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times.
We had stowed our new vessel as secure as we 'conld,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, 1 landed my rafts from the shi ; and haul-
ing her up to the shore at high water mar , I made my
man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold
her, and just deep enough to give her water enough to
lloat in ; and then, when the tide was out, we made a
strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out;
and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea; and to
keep the rain off, we laid a great many bonghs of trees,
so I ick that she was as well thatched as a house; and
thus we waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
l was preparing daily for the voyage: and the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of prmi.
stons, being the stores for our voyage; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the seashore, and see if he could find a

turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.
Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
back, and flew over m outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the groun , or the steps he set his feet on;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to
me. "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"--
" What's the matter, Friday?" says I. " O yonder,
there," says he, "one, two, three canoe; one, two,
three!" By this way of speaking: I concluded there
were six; but on inquiry I found it was but three.
" \Vell, Friday," says I, " do not be frightened." So
I heartened him up as well as I could: however, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to do
with him. I comforted him as well as I could, and told
him I was in as much danger as be, and that they would
eat me. as well as him. " But," says I, " Friday, we
must resolve to tight them. (Jan you tight, Friday?"
--" Me shoot," says he, " but there come many great
number."--" No matter for that," said I, again; " our
guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked
him whether, ifl resolved to defend him, he would de-
fend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid him.
He said, " Me die, when you bid die, master." Sol
went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him;
for I had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had
a great deal left. \Vhen he drank it, I made him take
the two fowlingpieces, which we always carried, and
loaded them with large swanshot, as big as small pis-
tol bullets: then I took four muskets, and loaded them
with two slugs, and five small bullets each; and my
two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each:
hang my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and
gave Friday his hatchet. \Vhen I had thus prepared
mvself, I took my perspective glass, and went up to the
side of the hill, to see what I could discover; and I
found quickly by my glass, that there were one and
twentv savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous
t'vast indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observ-
ml, was usual with them. I observed also, that they

were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the

shore was low, and where a thick wood came almost

close down to the sea. This, with the abborrence of
the inhuman errand these wretches came about, tilled
me with such indignation that I came down again to
Friday, and told himI was resolved to go down to
them,aud kill them all; and asked him if he would
stand b ' me. He had now got over his fright, and his
sjvlrlls being a little raised with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die.

In this lit of fury,I took and divided the arms which
I had charged, as before, between us: I gave Friday
In": pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon
his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the other three
guns, myself; and in this posture we marched out. I
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Fri-
day a large bag with more powder and bullets; and, as
to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and
not to stir, or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him ;
and, in the mean time, not to speak a word. In this
posture, l fetched a compass to my right hand of near
a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the
wood, so that I could come within shot-of them before

I should be discovered, which I had seen by my glass
II was easy to do.

\Vhile I was making this march, my former thoughts
"turning. I began to abate my resolution: I do not
mean that I entertained any fear of their number; for,
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I
was superior to them, nay, though I had been alone.
But it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what occa.
sion, much less what necessity I was in, to go and dip
my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither
done or intended me any wrong? Who, as to me,
were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their
own disaster ; being, in them, a token indeed of God's
having left them, with the other nations of that part of
the world, to such stupidity, and to such inhuman
courses; but did not call me to take upon me to hea
judge of their actions, much less an executioner of his
justice; that, whenever he thought fit, he would take
the cause into his own hands, and, by national ven-

geance, punish them, as a people, for national crimes;
but that tn the mean time, it was none of my busmcss;

that it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemy, and in a state of war with those ver-
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attaci;

them; but I could not say the same with respect to my-
self. These things were so warmly pressed u on my
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved would

only go and place myself near them, that I might ob-
serve their harharous feast, and that I would act then

as God should direct; but that, unless something oti'er-
ed that was more a call to me than yetl knew of, I
would not meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood: and, with
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following
close at my heels, 1 marched till 1 came to the skirt of
the wood, on the side which was next to them, only
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great
tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see
there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all about their
tire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from them,
which, he said, they would kill next, and which fired
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of
their nation, but one of the bearded men he had told

me of, that came to their country in the boat. I was
tilled with horror at the very naming the white beard-
ed man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly by my
glass a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea,
with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things
like rushes, and that he was an European, and had

clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond

it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where l was, which, by going a little way about, saw
I might come at undiscovered, and that then 1 should
be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my pas-
sion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest de-
gree; and going back about twenty paces. I got behind
some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the
other tree; and then came to a little rising ground,
which gave me a full View of them, at the distance of
about eighty yards.

1 had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the

dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close hud-
dled together, and had just sent the other two to

butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps
limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooping
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday
--" Now, Friday." said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday
said he would. " Then, Friday," says I, " do exactly
as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one
of the mnskets and the fowlingpiece upon the ground,
and Friday did the like by his: and with the ether
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him to
do the like: then asking him if he was ready, he said,
" Yes." " Then fire at them," said I ; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not
hurt, jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know whtch way to run, or which way to look, for
they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes close u on me, that, as I had bid
him, he might observe what? did ; so, as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and tank
up the t'owlingpiece, and Friday did the like: he saw
me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are
you ready, Friday?" said l.--" Yes." says he. " Let
tly, then," says I, " in the name of God!" and with
that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so
did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with
what I called swanshot, or small pistol bullets, We
found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad crea-
tures, all bloody, and ntost of them miserably wounded,
xlteli'eofthrce more fell quickly after, though not quite
ea .

" Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaden.
" follow me ;" which he did with a great deal of con-
rage; upon which I rushed out ofthe wood, and show-
ed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as l
perceived they saw me, [shouted as loud as I could.
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
Could, which by the way was not very last, being
loaded with arms as l was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach,
or shore, between the place where they sat and the Sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work wi.b
hint. had left him at the surprise of our first tire, and
fled in a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three tnore ofthe rest made the same
way. I turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards,
and tire at them; he understood me immediately, and
running about forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot
at them. and I thought be had killed them all, for I saw
them all fall ot'a heap into the boat, though I saw two
of them up again quickly: however, he killed two of
them, and wounded the third so that lie lay down in the
bottom oftbe boat as if he had been dead.

While my man lt'rida tired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags t tat bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and t'eet,l lifted him up, and asked

him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He an-
swered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and

faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I took my
bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs .
that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece of bread, which he eat. Then [asked him what
countryman he was: and he said Espagniole; and being
a little recovered. let me know, y all the signs he
could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for
his deliverance. " Seignior," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, " we will talk afterwards,
but we must light now: if you have any strength left,
take this pistol and sword, and lay about you." He
took them very thankfully; and no sooner had he the
arms in his hands, but, as if they had )ut new vigour
into him, he llew upon his murderers ike a fury, and
had out two of them in pieces in an instant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the
poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement
and fear, and had no more power to attempt their own
escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot: and that
was the case of those live that h'rida shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they re-
ceived, so the other two fell with the fright.

i kept my piece in my hand still without tiring, being
willing to lice-p my charge ready, because I had given
the Spaniard tny pistol and sword: so I called to Fri-
day, and bade him run up to the tree from whence ,we
first tired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and
then giving him my musket, [sat down myself to load
all the rest again, and bade them come to me when they
wanted. While 1 was loading these pieces, there hap-
pened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard, and
one of the savages, who made at him with one of their
great wooden swords, the samelike weapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The
bpaniard, who was as bold and brave as could he ima-

glllf'd, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
"bile, and had cut him two great wounds on his head;
but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in
With him. had thrown him down, being faint, and was
Wringing my sword out of his hand; when the S )aniard,
though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, ew the
pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was run-
ning to help him, could come near him.

Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet ; and with that he despatched those three, who.
as I said before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with: and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-
pieces. with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both; but, as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded.
yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with
all his might otl' to those two who were left in the canoe,
which three in the canoe, with one wounded, that we
knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands of one and twenty; the account of the whole
is as follows: three killed at our first shot from the
tree; two killed at the next shot; two killed by Fri-
day in the boat; two killed by Friday, of those at first
wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three
killed by the Spaniard ; four killed, being found
dropped here and there, of their wounds, or killed by
Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the
boat. whereof one wounded, if not dead.----'l'wenty-one
in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of gunshot, and though Friday made two or three shots
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
would t'ain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them; and indeed, I was very anxious about
their escape, lest carrying the news home to their peo-
)le, they should come back perhaps with two or t rec
tundred of the canoes, and devour us by mere multi-
tude; so I co-v ented to pursue them by sea, and run-

ning to one of their canoes, ljumped in, and bade Fri- '

day follow me; but whenl was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter,

and almost dead with fear, not knowing what was the .
matter; for he had not been able to look up over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels,
and had been tied so long, that he had really but little
life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was only un-
bound in order to he killed. When Friday came to
him, I bade him Speak to him, and tell him of his deli-
verance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him give the
poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But
when Friday came to hear him Speak, and look in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced,
sung; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own
face and head; and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. it was a good while before
I could make him Speak to me, or tell me what was the
matter; but when he came a little to himself, he told
me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it. moved me to
see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe halt"
the extravagances of his infection after this; for he went
into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many times :
when he went in to him, he would sit down by him,
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his
bosom for many minutes together, to nourish it; then
he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiff with the binding, and ehafed and rubbed them with
his hands; and l, perceiving what the case was, gave
him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which
did them a great deal of good.

This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now got almost out
ofsight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for it:
blew so hard within two hours after, and before they
could be got a quarter of their way, and continued

von. 1. Q
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west,
which was against them, that I could not suppose their-
boat could live, or that they ever reached their own
coast.

But, to return to Friday ; he was so busy about his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him otl'
for some time: but after I thought he could leave him
a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme; then I
asked him if he had given his father any bread. He
shook his head, and said, " None; ugly dog eat all up
self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out of a little
poneh [carried on purpose; lalso gave him adram
for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to
his father. 1 had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but 1
saw him come out of the boat, and run away, as if he
had been hewitched, he ran at such a rate; for he was
the swiftest fellow on his feet. that ever I saw: I say, he
ran at such a rate that he was out of sight, as it were,
in an instant; and though 1 called, and hallooed on:
too, after him, it was all one, away he went; and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I found
his pace slacker, because he had something in his hand.
"'hen he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the water
he carried to his father; however, as l was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his
father more than all the rum or Spirits I had given him,
for he was just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drank, I called to him to know
if there was any water left: he said, " Yes ;" and l
bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the.
cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who
was indeed very weak, and was reposmg himself upon
a green place under the shade of a tree; and whose
limbs were also very still', and very much swelled with
the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat,
I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins: he
looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude
and thankfulness that could appear in any countenance;
but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted
himsell'in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so pain-
t'nl to him; so [ bade him sit still, and caused Frida to

fill) his ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he ad
done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two
minutes. or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn
his head about, to see if his father was in the same lace
and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he tiiund
he was not to be seen; at which he started up, and,
without speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to
him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the
ground as he went: but when he came he only found
he had laid himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday
name back to me presently; and then 1 spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and
lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to
our dwelling, where I would take care of him: but
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and then lifting
him quite in, he set him close to his father; and pre-
sentlv stepping out again, launched the boat off, and
paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew prett hard too: so he brought
them both safe into our cree , and leaving them in the
boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
{1e told me, " Go fetch more boat :" so away he went
like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like
him ; and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as
soon as I got to it by land ; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so
that poor Friday knew not what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-bar-
row to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them both
up together upon it, between us.

But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before, for it
was int )ossible to get them over, and I was resolved Hot
to break it down; so I set to work again; and Friday
and l, in about two hours' time, made a very handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with boughs
of trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which I
had planted: and here we made them two beds ol'sueh
things as I had, viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets
laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
Very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere pro-
perty, so that [had an undoubted right of dominion.
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected; l was
absolutely lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives
to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable,
too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
difl'erent religions: my man Friday was a Protestant,
his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard
was a Papist: bOWever, I allowed liberty of conscience
throughout my dominionsz--But this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pri-
soners, and git en them shelter, and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to
take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of
my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut oti' the
hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth: and
as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within
mv inner wall, so 1 carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them,l sat down, and eat
mv own dinner also with them, and, as well as I could,
cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the
Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of

the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather snpped, I ordered Fri-
day to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our mus-
kets and other tire-arms, which, for want of time, we
had left open the place of battle; and, the next day, I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the sa-
vages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently
has offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid re-
mains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think of doing my-
self; nav, I could not bear to see them, if I went that
way; all which he punctually performed, and ell'aeed

the very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was,
otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to
the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thought of the escape of the savages
m that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could
live out the storm which blew that night they went off,
but must, of necessity, be drowned, or driven south to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be de-
voured as they were to be drowned, if they were cast
away: but, as to what they would, ifthey came safe on
shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that
they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of
their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he be-
lieved they would tell the people they were all killed
by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man; and
that the two which appeared, viz. Friday and I, were

two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapons. This, he said, he
knew; because he heard them all cry out so, in their
language, one to another; for it was impossible for
them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak
thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the
hand, as was done now: and this old savage was in the
right; for, as I understood since, by other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards, they were so terrified with the accounts given by
those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea)
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted
island would be destroyed with lire from the gods.
'l'his, however,l knew not; and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there
were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a
hundred ot'them, fairly in the open field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming, wore off; and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into consi-
deration; being likewise assured, by Friday's father,
thatl might depend upon good usage from their nation,
on his account, if 1 would go. But my thoughts were
a little suspended when I had a serious discourse with
the Spaniard, and when I understood that there were
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who,
having been cast away, and made their escape to that
side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage,
and found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the
Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver,
and to bring back what EurOpean goods they could
meet with there; that the had five Portuguese seamen
on board, whom they too out of another wreck; that
five ot'their own men were drowned, when first the ship
was lost, and that these escaped through infinite dau-
gers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the
cannibal coast, where the expected to have been de-

voured every moment. Ie told me they had some
arms with them, but they were perfectl useless, for

that they had neither powder nor ball, t e washing of

a-
A. h "and".
or nontssos nausea. 231

the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little,
which they used, at their first landing, to provide them-
selves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed any design of making
their esca e. He said they had many consultations
about it; at that having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils al-
ways ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he
thought they would receive a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they
were all here, it might not be done. 1 told him with
freedom, I feared tnostl y their treachery and ill usage of
me, if I put my life in their hands; for that gratitude
was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did
men always square their dealings hv the obligations
they had received, so much as they did by the advan-
tages they expected. I told him it would be very hard
that I should be the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their priso-
ner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
he made a sacrilice, what necessity or what accident
soever brought him thither; and that I had rather be
delivered up to the savages, and he devoured alive,
than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be
carried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I
was persuaded, it' they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all
away, either to the Brazils, southward, or to the
islands, or Spanish coast northward; but that if, in re-
quital, they should, when I had put weapons into their
hands, carr me by force among their own people, I
might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make
my case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingeo
nnonsuess, that their condition was so miserable, and
that they were so sensible of it, that, he believed, they
would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly
that should contribute to their deliverance; and that if
lpleased, he would go to them with the old man, and
discourse with them about it and return again, and
bring me their answer; that he would make conditions
with them upon their solemn oath, that they should he
absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain; and they should swear upon the holy sacra-
ments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to such
Christian country as that I should agree to. and no
other, and to be. directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such country as l
intended; and that he would bring a contract from
them, under their hands, for that purpose. Then he
told me he would first swear to me himself, that he
would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave
him orders; and that he would take. my side to the last
drop of his blood, if there should happen the least
breach of faith among his countrymen. He told me
they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having
ucilher weapons or clothes, nor any food, but at the
mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes
of ever returning to their own country; and that he was
sure, ifl would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them. if possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had

got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself

started an objection, which had so much prudence in it
on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand,
that I could not but he very well satisfied in it; and, by
his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at
least halfa year. 'l'heease was thus: He had been with
us now about a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner 1 had provided, with the assistance
of Providence, for my support: and he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which,
though it was more than sullicient for myself, yet it was
not sullicient, without good husbandry, for my family,
now it was increased to four; but much less would it
be sullicient if his countrymen, who were, as he said,
sixteen, still alive, should come over; and, least of all,
would it he sullicient to vietual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies
of America; so he told me he thought it would he
more advisable to let him and the other two dig and

cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare
seed to sow, and that we should wait another harvest,
that we might have a supply of corn for his country-
men, when they should come; for want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than out of one difliculty
into another. " You know," says he, " the children of
Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being deli-
rcred out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God him-
self, that delivered them, when they came to want bread
in the wilderness."

"is caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that [could not but be very well pleased with his
proposal, as well as l was satisfied with his fidelity: so
we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnished with permitted ; and in about
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time,
we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and six-
teen jars of rice; which was, in short. all the seed we
had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves bar-
ley sufficient for our own food, for the six months that
we had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it
is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground
in that country.

llaving now society enough, and our number being
snllieicnt to put us out ot't'ear ot' the savages, ifthey had
come, unless their number had been very great, we
went t'rccly all over the island, whenever we found oc-
casion ; and as here we had our escape or deliverance
npon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to
have the means of it out of mine. For this purpose, I
marked out several trees which I thought lit for our

work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them
down; and then I caused the Spaniard. t0 whom I im-
parted my thoughts on that affair, to oversee and direct
their work. I showed them with what indefatigable
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made about a

dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet. broad,
thirty-live feet long. and from two inches to four inches
thick: what prodigious labour it took up, any one may
imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and, for this
purpose. I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we took
our turns), and by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed u ) with the rest; for whenever we
shot the dam, we saver the kids, and added them to our
flock. But, above all, the season for curing the grapes
coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be
hung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at Ali-
cant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
haw filled sixty or eighty barrels ; and these, with our
bread, was a great part of our food, and was very good
living too, I assure you, for it is exceeding nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it

was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island. but, however, it was enough to answer our
end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we brought
in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which
was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me: or if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would very plentit'ully have vietuallcd our ship to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any
part of America. When we had thus housed and se-
cured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make
more wicker-ware, viz. great baskets, in which we kept
it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some
things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no
need of it.

And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected. I gave the S )aniard leave to go over
to the main, to see what he can d do with those he had
left behind them there. I gave him a strict charge not
to bring any man with him who would not first swear,
in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he

would no way injure, tight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they
would stand by him, and defend him against all such
attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this
should be put in writing, and signed with their hands.
How they were to have done this, when! knew they
had neither ion or ink, was a question which we never
asked. Um er these instructions, the Spaniard and the
old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of
the canoes which they might be said to come in, or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to
be devoured by the savages. 1 gave each of them a
musket, with a tirelock on it, and about eight charges
of powder and ball, charging them to be very good has-
hands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
.\.'tcll years and some days. 1 gave them provisions
of bread, and of dried grapes, sntlicient for them<<
selves for many days, and suflicient for all the Spa-
niards for about eight days' time; and wishing them a
good voyage, I saw them go; agreeing with them about
a signal they should hang out at their return, by which
I should know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore. They went awa
with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at ful ,
by my account in the month of October; but as for an
exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could
never recover it again; nor had I kept even the num-
ber of years so punctually as to be snrel was right;
though, as it proved, when l afterwards examined my
account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history.
I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when at
man Friday came running in to me, and called alou ,
" Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I

jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went out as
soon as 1 could get my clothes on,throngh my little9:76 1.1m: asp .tnves'runrzs

grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to he
a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went
without my arms, which was not my custom to do: but
I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I pre-
sentky saw a boat at about a league and a half distance,
stan ing in for the shore, with a shoulder of mutton
sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in: also I observed presently, that they did
not come from that side which the shore lay on, but
from the southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I
called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these were.
not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In
the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-glass.
to see what I could make of them; and having taken
the ladder out, I climbed up to the t0p of the bill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of any thing, and
to take my view the plainer, without being discovered.
I .had scarce set my foot upon the bill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a hall'distance from me, S.S.E. but not
above a league and a half from the shore. By my ob-
servation, it appeared plainly to he an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the
joy of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe
was manned by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had
some secret doubts hung about me, 1 cannot tell from
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard.
In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what
business an English ship could have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part of
the world where the English had any traflie; and I
knew there had been no storms to drive them in there,
as in distress; and that if they were really English, it
\\ as most probable that they were here upon no good
design; and that I had better continue as I was than
fall into the hands oftliieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may

think there is no possibility of its being real. That4

or ROBINSON causes. 237

such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that
have made any observations of things can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisible wor d, and
a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dent-v of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent(whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate,
is not the question), and that they are given for our
'ootl ?

b The present question abundantly confirms tne in the
justice of this reasoning; for had not been made can-
tions by this secret admonition, come it from whence it
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse
condition than before, as you will see presently. I had
not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see
the little inlet where l formerly landed my rafts, but
run their boat on shore upon the beach, at about hall'a
mile from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they would have landed just at my door, as I may
say, and would soon have beaten me out of my castle,
and perhaps have plundered me of all I had. \Vheu
they were on shore, l was fully satisfied they were Eng-
lishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven tnen, whereof three of them I found were an-
armed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the lirst
four or live of them were jumped on shore, they took
these three out of the boat, as prisoners: one of the
three 1 could perceive using ,the tnost passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, aflliction, and despair, even to a kind
of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted
up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned, in-
deed, but not to such a degree as the first. I was per-
fectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to tue in
English, as well as he could, "0 master! you see
English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans."--
" Why, Friday," says I, " do you think they are going
to eat them then?"---" Yes," says Friday, " they will
eat them."---" No, no," says I, " Friday; I am afraid
they will murder them, indeed, but you may be sure
they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners
should he killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains
lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it,
or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I e\-

ected to see him fall every moment: at which all tln-
lilood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins. l
wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone. with him, or that I had any way to hau-
comc undiscovered within shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men. for I saw no lire-arms they
had among them; but it fell out to my mind another
way. After I had observed the outrageous usage ofthe
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fel-
lows run scattering about the island, as it' they wanted
to see the country. I observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but
they sat do wu all three upon the ground, very pensive.
and looked like men in despair. 'l'his put me in mind
of the first time when! came on shore, and began to
look about me; how I gave myself over for lost,
how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful ap-
prehensions I had; and how] lodged in the tree all
night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As
I knew nothing, that night, of the supply I was to re-
ceive by the presidential driving of the ship nearer
the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since
been so long nourished and supported; so these three
poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deli-
verance and supply they were, how near it was to them,
and how ell'ectually and really they were in a condition
of safety, at the same time that they thought themselves
lost, and their case desperate. So little do we see be-
fore us in the world, and so much reason have we to

depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world,
that he does not leave his creatures so absolutely desti-
tute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they have al-
ways something to be thankful for, and sometimes are
nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are
even brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high water when these peo-
ple came on shore; and partly while they ratn led
about to see what kind of a place they were in, they
had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the wa-
ter was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground. They had left two men in the boat, who,
as I found afterwards, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking a
little sooner than the other, and finding the boat too
fast aground for him to stir it', hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all- soon
came to the boat: but it was past all their strength to
launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the shore
on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick-
sand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are per-
haps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they
gave it over, and away they strolled about the country
again; and I heard one of them sav aloud to another,

calling them oli' from the boat, " IVhy, let her alone,
Jack, can't you? she'll float next tide:" by which I was

fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen
they were. All this while I kept myself very close, not
once daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to
my place of observation, near the tap of the hill ; and
very glad I was to think how well it was fortitied. I
knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could
tloat again, and bv that time it would be dark, and I

might be at more'liberty to see their motions, and to

hear their discourse, if they had any. In the mean
time, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enetu than lhad at first. I ordered Friday
also, whom I ad made an excellent marksman withhis
gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself'two
l'mvling-picces, and I gave him three muskets. My
figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable
goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned,
a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and

a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark: but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day. i found that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed

 

men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep,
were, however, sat down under the shelter of a great
tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me. and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I
resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in the
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not mak-
ing quite so staring a speetrelike figure as 1 did. I
came as near them undiscovered as 1 could, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, " \Vhat are ye gentlemen P" They started up
at the noise; but were ten times more confounded
when they saw me, and the uncouth figure thatl made.
They made no answer at all, but I thought 1 perceived
them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them
in English: " Gentlemen," said I, "do not he sur-
prised at me: perhaps you may'have a friend near,
when you did not expect it."--" He must he sent di-
rectly from Heaven then," said one of them very
gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time,
to me 5 " for our condition is past the help of man."--
" All help is from Heaven, Sir," said i : " But can you
put a stranger in the way how to help you? for you
seem to he in some great distress. i saw ~you when you
landed; and when you seemed to make application to
the hrutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift
up his sword to kill you." . .

The poor man, wath tears running down his face, and
trembling. looking like one astonished, returned, "Am
I talking to God or man? Is it a real man or an angel?"
--" Be in no fear about that, Sir," said I ; " if God had
sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come bet-
ter clothed, and armed after another manner than you
see me: pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Eng-
lishman, and disposed to assist you: you see I have one
servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us
t'n-t-lv. can we serve you? \Vhat is your case?"--" Our
use," said he, " Sir, is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us: but, in short, sir, I was com-
mauder ofthat ship, my men have mutinied against me;
they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me;
and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a
passenger, where we expected to perish, believing the
place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think
of it."--" \Vhere are these brutes, your enemies?"
said I: " Do you know where they are gone?"--
" There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
trees; " my heart trembles for fear they have seen us,
and heard you speak; it' they have, they will certainl
murder us all."--" Have they any tire-arms?" said ti
He answered, " they had only two pieces, one of which
they left in the boat." " Well then," said I, " leave
the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy
thing to kill them all : but shall we rather take them pri-
soners?" He told me there were two desperate villains
among them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy
m; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
Would return to their duty. I asked him which they
Were? He told me he could not at that distance distin-
guish them, but he would obey m orders in any thing
I would direct. " Well," says I): " let us retreat out
(if their view or hearing, lest the awake, and we will
resolve further." So they willing y went back with me,

till the woods covered as from them.
vor.. 1. R
" Look you, Sir," said I, " if I venture upon \'(mr
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me ?" He antici )ath my proposals, by telling
me, that both he and t ie ship, if recovered, should be
wholly directed and commanded by me in everv thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he would live and
die with me in what part of the world soever I would
send him; and the two other men said the same.
" "'ell," says I, "my conditions are but two: first,
That while you stay in this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your
hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to me,
and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island ; and,
in the mean time, be governed by my orders: secondlv,
That if the ship is or may be recovered, you will Cari-v
me and my man to England, passage free." '

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or
faith of man eould devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides, would
owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all OCea-
sions, as long as he lived." " Well then," said I,
" here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball:
tell me next what you think is proper to be done." He
showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was
able, but oll'ered to be wholly guided by me. I told
him 1 thought it was hard venturing anything; but the
best method I could think of was to tire u on them at
once, as they lay, and it' any were not kille at the first
volley, and oll'ered to submit, we might save them, and
so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the
shot. He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill
them, it' he could help it: but that those two were in-
corrigible villains, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should he
undone still ; for they would go on board and bring the
whole ship's company, and destroy us all. " \Vcll
then," says I, " necessity legitimates my advice, for it
is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing
him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they
should go themselves, and manage as they found con-

venient. .
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their
feet. I asked him if either of them were the heads of
the mutiny? He said, No. " Well then," said I, " you
mav let them escape; and Providence seems to have
awakened them on purpose to save themselves--Now,"
says I, " ifthe rest escape you, it is your fault." Ani-
mated with this, he took the musketl had given him
in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two com-
rades with him, with each a piece in his band; the two
men who were with him going first, made some noise,
at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest;
hut it was too late then, for the moment he cried out
they fired ; I mean the two men, the captain wisely re-
serving his own piece. they had so well aimed their
shot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but
not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping
to him, told him it was too late to cr for help, he
should call upon God to forgive his vil any; and with
that word knocked him down with the stock of his
musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three
more in the company, and one of them was also slightly
wounded. By this time I was come; and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they
begged for mercy. The captain told them he would
spare their lives, if they would give him an assurance
of their abhorreuce of the treachery they had been
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in re-
covering the ship, and afterwards iu carr iug her back
to Jamaica, from whence they came. T Iey gave him
all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives, which I was not against, only that I obliged

him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were
on the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring

away the ears and sails, which they did: and by and
by t ree straggling men, that were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
tired: and seeing the captain, who was before their pri-
soner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound
also; and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should in-
quire into one auother's circumstances: I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement; and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with pro-
visions aml ammunition ; aml indeed, as my story is a
whole collection: of wonders, it affected him deeply.
But w hen be reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more. After this communica-

tion was at an end, I carried him and his two men into
my apartment, leading them in just where I came out,
viz. at the top of the house, where l refreshed them
with such provision as I had, and showed them all the
contrivaneesl had made, during my long, long inhabit.
ing that plaee.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove oftrces, which, having been now planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so
thick, that it was im assablo in any part of it but at

that one side where bad reserved my little winding
passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my
residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most
princes have, whither I could retreat upon oceasion,
and I would show him that too another time: but at
present our business was to consider how to recover
the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told me,
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for
that there were. still six and twenty hands on board,
who bavimr entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be
hardened in it now b desperation, and would carry it
on, knowing that if tliey were subdued, they would be
brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England,
or to any of the English colonies; and that thereforeor 11031105010 CRUSOE.' 245

there would be no attacking them with so small a num~
her as we were.

[mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on speedily, as well
to draw the men on board into some snare for their sur-

prise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroy-

ing us. Upon this, it presently occurred to me, that tn
a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, would cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat, to look for
them; and that then perhaps they might come armed,
and he too strong for us : this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was

to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her otl'; and taking every thing
out of her. leave her so far useless as not to be lit to
swim: accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board out of her, and whatever else

we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and ana-
ther of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and
it great lump of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar
was live or six pounds); al which was verv welcome

to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had
none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder ot' the boat were carried
away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
us, yet they could not carry 0!? the boat. Indeed, it
was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to
recover the shi ; but my view was, that if they went
away without the boat, I did not much question to make
her tit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and
call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had
them still in my thoughts.

. \Vhile we were thus preparing our designs, and had
tn-st. by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that the tide would not float her off at high

water mark, and besides, had broke a hole in her hot-
l0m_too big to be quickly stopped. and were set down
musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a
gun, and make a wall with her ensign as a signal for the
boat to come on board: but no heat stirred; and they
fired several times, making other signals for the boat.
At last, when all their signals and tiring proved fruit.
less, aml they found the boat did not stir, we saw them.
by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and
row towards the shore; and we found, as they ap-
preached, that there were no less than ten men in her,
and that they had tire arms with them.

As the. ship lay almosttwo leagues from the shore, we
had a full view ofthem as they came, and a plain sight
even oftheir faces; because the tide having set them a
little to the east of the ot her boat, they rowed up under
shore, to come to the same place where the other had
landed. aml where the boat lay; by this means, I sat,
we had a full view of them. and the captain knew the
persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of
whom. he said there were three very honest fellows.
who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the
rest, being overpowered aml frightened; but that as
for the hoatswain, who it seems was the chief ollieer
among;r them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous
as any of the ship's crew, and Were no doubt made des-
perate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehen-
sive he was that they would he too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circnm~
stances wese past the o eration of fear; that seeing
almost every condition ttat could be was better than
that which we were supposed to he in, we ought to e.\-
)ect that the consequence, whether death or life, would
he sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he
thought ofthe circumstances of my life, and whether a
deliverance were not worth venturing for? " And
where, Sir," said I, " is your belief of my being pre-
served here on purpose to save your life, which elevated
you a little while ago? For my part," said I, " there
seems to me but one thing amiss in all the prospect of
it."--" What is that ?" says he. " \Vhy," said I, " it
is, that as you say there are three or four honest fellows
among them, which should be spared: had they been

0

all of the wrcked part of the crew, I should have thought
God's providence had singled them out to deliver them
into vonr hands; for depend upon it, every man that
comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they
ln-have to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged
him ; so we set vigorously to our business.

\Ve had, upon the lirst appearance of. the boat's
coming from the ship, considered ol separating. our pri-
souers; and we had, indeed, secured them ellectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three

mun-red men, to my cave, w tere they were remote
enough. and out of danger of belng heard or discovered,

or of finding their way out of the u oods if they could
have delivered themselves: here they left them bound,
but gave them provisions; and promised them, if they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a

day or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they should be put to death w tthout mercy.' 'l'bey pro-
mised faithfully to bear lllt'll' conlinemeut wrth patience,

and were very thankful that they had such good usage
as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday

gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their

comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sen.
llllt'l ov er them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was
not free to trust them; but the other two were taken

into my service, upon the captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
us; so with them and the three honest men, we were
seven men well armed; and I made no doubt we should
be able to deal well enough with the ten that were
coming, considering that the captain had said there
were three or four honest men among them also. As

soon as they got to the place where their other heat
lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on
shorc,hauling the beat up after them, which I was
glad to see, for l was afraid they would rather have
left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore,
with some bands in her to guard her, and so we should
not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first

thing they did, they ran all to their other boat 5 and it
was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find
her stri rped, as above, of all that was in her, and a
great holle in her bottom. After they had mused a while.
Upon this, they set up two or three great shouts, hal-
looing with all their might, to try if they could make
their companions hear; but all was to no pur Ose:
then they came all close in a ring, and fired a vol ey of
their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the
echos made the woods ring ; but it was all one; those
in the cave we were sure could not hear, and those in
our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet
durst give no answer to them. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that as they told us afterwards,
they resolved to go all on hoard again to their ship,
and let them know that the men were all murdered,
and the longhoat staved ; accordingly, they imme-
diately launched their boat again, and got all of them
on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confound-
ed at this, believing they would go on board the ship
again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost,
and so he should still lose the ship. which he was in
hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly
as much t'r ightened the other way.

They had not been long put oll' with the host, hut
we perceived them all coming on shore again: but with
this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they
consulted together upon, viz. to leave three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
country to look for their fellows. This was a great
disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss what
to do, as our seizing those seven men on shore would
be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape; be-
cause they would then row away to the ship, and then
the rest of them would he sure to weigh and set sail,
and so our recovering the ship would he lost. How-
ever, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the
issue of things might present. The seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her 011' to a good distance from the shore, and came to
an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible
J'or us to come at them in the boat. Those that came
on shore kept close together, marching towards the to
of the little hill under which my habitation lay; an
we could see them plainly though they could not per-
ceive us. \Ve could have been very glad they would
have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired at
them, or that they would have gone farther off, that
we might come abroad. But when they were come to
the brow of the hill, where they could see a great way
into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east art, and where the island lay lowest, they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not
caring it seems to venture far from the shore. nor far
from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to consider of it. Had they thought lit to have gone
to sleep there, as the other part ofthem had done, they
had done the job for us; but they were too full of ap-
prehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to
fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation ot'theirs, viz. that perhaps the would
all lire a volley again, to endeavour to make t neir fel-
lows hear, and that we should all sally upon them, just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged,
and they would certainly yield, and we should have
them without bloodshed. I liked this preposal, pro-
\ idcd it was done while we were near enough to come
up to them before they could load their pieces again.
llut this event did not happen; and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take. At length
I told them there would be nothing done, in my epi-
nion, till night; and then, ifthey did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with
them in the boat to get them on shore. \Ve waited a
great while, though very impatient for their removing;
and were very uneasy, when, after long consultations,
we saw them all start it , and march down towards the
sea: it seems they ha such dreadful a prehensions
Upon them of the danger of the place,t at they re-
sulved to go on board the ship again, give their com-
panions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as l perceived them to go towards the shore,
I imagined it to he as it really was, that they had git en
over their search, and were for going back again; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was
ready to sink at the apprehensions of it: but I presentlr
thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate to go over the little creek west-
ward, towards the place where the savages came on
shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as ther
came to a little rising ground, at about halfa mile dis-
tance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they COUltI,
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that

as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them,
they should return it again; and then keeping out of
sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among
the woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to
me by such ways as I directed them.

They wereJust going into the boat when Friday and
the mate hallooed : and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently sto )ped
by the creek, where the water being up, they coul not
get over, and called for the boat to come up and set
them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they had
set themselves over, I observed that the boat being
gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a
harbour within the land, they took one ofthe three men
out of her, to go along with them, and left only two in
the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little

tree on the shore. This was what I wished for; and
immediately leaxing Friday and the captain's mate to
their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware; one of them lying on the
shore, and the other being in the boat. The fellow on

shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to
start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, and knocked him down; and then called out to
him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There
needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his com-
rade knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded
not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely
with us. In the mean time, Friday and the captain's
mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one
bill to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
n ere very sure they could not reach back to the boat
before it was dark; and, indeed, the were heartily
tired themselves also, by the time they came back
to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them,so as to make sure
work with them. It was several hours after Friday
came back to me before they came back to their boat;
and we could hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along ; and could also hear them answer, and complain
how lame and tired they were, and not able to come
any faster; which was very welcome news to us. At
length they came up to the boat: but it is impossible
to express their confusion when they found the boat
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their
two men gone. \Ve could hear them call to one ano-
ther in a most lamentable manner, telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be
murdered, or else there were devils and spirits in it,
and they should be all carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times, but no answer. After
some time, we could see them, by the little light.there
was, run about, wringing their hands like men in de-
spair, and that sometimes they would go and sit down
III the boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again,
and walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me give them leave to
fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare theni,
and kill as few of them as I could ; and especially l was
unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men, littnw~
ing the others \vere very well armed. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could,
that the) might not he discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to tire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswuin, who was the principl ringleader of the ma-
tiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected and
dis llt'llctl of all the rest, came walking towards them.
wit I two more ofthc crew : the captain was so eager at
having this principal rogue so much in his power, that
he could hardly have patience to let him come so near
as to he sure of him, for they only heard his tongue
before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting u l on their feet, let lly at them. The
hoatswain was kil ed upon the spot; the next man was
shot into the body, and fell just by him, though he did
not die till an hour or two after; and the third run for
it. At the. noise of the tire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz.
myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general;
the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of
war whom w e h l trusted with arms. \Ve came upon
them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the

boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to
try if] could bring them to a parley, and so might per-
haps reduce them to terms; which fell out just as we
desired: for indeed it was easy to think, as their con-
dition then was, they would be very willing to capito--
late. So he calls out as loud as he could, to one of
them, " Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom <<Smith an-
swered immediately, " Is that Robinson?" For it
seems he knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay.
ay ; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms
and yield. or you are all dead men this moment."--"\V ho
must we yield to? \Vhere are they ?" says Smith again.
" Here they are," says he; "here's our captain and
tit'tv men with him, have been hunting you these two
hours: the boatswain is killed, \Vill Fry is wounded,
and I am a prisoner; and it' you do not yield, you are
all lost."--" Will they give us quarter then?" sa 's
Tom Smith, " and we will yield."--" I'll go and as ,
it' you promise to yield," said Robinson: so he asked
the captain; and the captain himself then calls out,
" You, Smith, you know my voice; it' \ou lay down
your arms innnediatel ,and submit, you shall have your
lives, all but \Vill At ins."

Upon this \Vill Atkins cried out, " For God's sake,
t'fllllain, give me quarter; what have I done? They
have all been as bad as 1:" which, hv the way, was
not true neither; for, it seems, this \Vill Atkins was
the tirst man that laid hold of the captain, when they
lirst mutinied, and used him barbarously, in t in}; lus
hands, and giving him injurious language. I owever,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which
he meant me, for they al called me governor. In a
word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man that had parleved with them,

and two more, who bound them all; and then my reat
anny of fifty men, which, particularly with thoset ree,
were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them,
and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one

more out of sight for reasons of state. .
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of

seizing the ship: and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parlcy with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villany of their ractices with him, and at
length upon the further wic edness of their design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
In the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all ap-
peared very emtent, and begged hard for themlives.
As for that, he told them they were none of his pri-
soners, but the commander's of the island; that they
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, unin-
habited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them, that. it was inhabited, and that the governor was
an Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if
he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt
with there as justice. required, except Atkins, whom
he was commanded hv the governor to advise to pre-

pare for death, for that he would he hanged in the
morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it
had its desired etl'eet; Atkins fell upon his knees, to
_ beg the :aptain to iutcreede with the governor for his
life: and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake,
that they might not he sent to England.

It now occurred to me. that the time of our delix er~
anee was come, and that it would he a most easy thing
to bring these fellows in to he hearty in getting poc-
session ofthc ship; so I retired in the dark from them,
that thev might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when 1 called, as at
a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the com-
mander calls for you ;" and presently the captain re-
plied, " 'l'ell his C'CL'llCllt'y I am just a coming." This
more pert'eetly amused them, and they all believed that
the commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon
the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and
resolved to put it in execution the next morning. But,
in order to e\'eente it with more art, and to be secure
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners,
and that he should go and take Atkins, and two more
ofthe worst of them, and send them pinioned to the
cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday, and the two men who came on shore with the
captain. They conveyed them to the cave as to a pri-
son: and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to
men in their condition. The others I ordered to my
bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full de-

scription; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned,

the place was secure enough, considering they were
upon their behaviour.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; .in a word, to try
them, and tell me whether he thought they might be
trusted or no to go on board and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con-
dition they were brought to, and that though the go-
vernor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action. vet that if they were sent to England,
they would all he hanged in chains, to be sure; but
that it' they would join in so just an attempt as to re-
('IHCI' the ship. he would have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they fell
down on their knees to the captain, and promised, with
the deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to
him to the last drop, and that they should owe their
lives to him, and would go with him all over theworld;
that they would own him as a father to them as long as
they lived. " Well," says the captain, "I must go and
tell the governor what you say, and see what I can do to
hring him to consent to it." So he brought me an ac-
count ofthe temper he found them in, and that he verily
believed they would be faithful. However. that we
might be very secure, I told him he should go back
again and choose out those five, and tell them, that
they might see he did not want men, that he would take
out those live to be his assistants, and that the gover-
nor would keep the other two, and the three that were
sent risoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages fer
the idelity of those five; and that if they proved uu-
faithful in the execution, the live hostages should be
hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked se-
tere, and convinced them that the governor was in
earnest: however, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business ofthe prisoners,
as much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to
do their duty.

.Qur strength was now thus ordered for the expe-
dinon; first, The captain, his mate, and passenger:
second, Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
Whom. having their character from the captain, I had
gtren their liberty, and trusted them with arms: third,
The other two that I had kept till now in my bower
pinioncd, but, on the captain's motion, had now re-
cased : fourth, 'l'hese live released at last ; so that
they were twelve in all, besides live we kept prisoners
in the cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; but as for me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper for usto stir,
having seven men left behind ; and it was employment
enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them
with vietuals. As to the live in the cave, resolved
to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a day to
them, to supply them with neecssaries; and I made the
other two carry irovisions to a certain distance, where
Friday was to take it.

\Vheu 1 showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after tlu-m; and that it
was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any
where but by my direction ; that ifthey did, they would
be fetched into the castle, and be. laid in irons: so that
as we never sull'ered them to see me as a governor, I
now appeared as another person, and spoke of the go-
vernor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.

The eaptain now had no dilliculty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain ofone, with four
of the men; and himself, his mate, aml live more, went
in the other; and they contrived their business very
well, for they came up to the ship about midnight. As
soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off
the men and the boat, but that it was a long time before
they had found them, and the like, holding them In a
chat till they came to the ship's side; when the cap-
tain and the mate entering first, with their arms, imme--
diatel knocked down the second mate and carpenter
with t re butcud of their muskets, being very faithfully
seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that
were upon the main and quarterdecks, and began to
fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore
chains, secured the l'orecastle ol' the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three
men thev found there prisoners. When this was done,
and all sale upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round-house, where
the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the alarm,
had got up, and with two men and a boy had got lire-
arms in their hands; and when the mate with a crow
split open the door, the new captain and his men fired
bulcilV amtmg' them, and wounded the mate with a mus-
lu-t ball. which broke his arm and wounded two more
of the men, but killed nobody. The mate calling,r for
lu-lp, rushed, however, into the round house, wounded
:u he was, and with his pistol shot. the new captain
though the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
Hill": out again behind one of his ears, so that he never
~poke a word more: upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken efl'ectually, without any more
lives lost.

.-\s soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having thus heard the signal plainly,
I laid me down; and it having been a day of great ta-
tigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something
surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently start-
ing up, I heard a man call me by the name of Governor,
Governor, and presently I knew the captain's voice;
when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood,
and pointing to the ship, be embraced me in his arms.
" My dear friend and deliverer," says he, " there's
_\our ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all
that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and
there she rode within little more than halfa mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the
little creek; and, the tide being up, the captain had
brought the pinnace in near the place where l at first
lauded my rafts, and so landed just at my door. I was.

VOL. I. 8258 LIFE AND autumn": s

at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw
my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all
things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither I pleased to go. At first, for sometime,
I was not abie to answer him one word; but as he had
taken me in his arms, I held last by him, or I should

have fallen to the ground. He perceived the surprise,

. P
-' ,NJ

 
        

   

7?. 1:>>? .

Sig???" i' V
and immediately pulls a bottle out of his pocket, and
gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on
purpose for me. After I had drank it, I. sat down upon
the ground; and though it. brought. me to myself,th
it was a good while before I couldSpeak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as
I, only not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a
thousand kind and tender things to me, to compose and
living me to myself: but such was the flood of joy in
my breast that it put all my spirits into confusion; at
last it broke out. into tears; and in a little while after I
recovered my speech. I then took my turn, and em-
braced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
I told him I loolsed upon him as a man sent from Ilea-
ven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seem-
ed to be a chain of wonders; that. such things as these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Provi-
dence governing; the world. and an evidence that the
eye of an infinite power could search into the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable
whenever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart
in thankfulness to Heaven 5 and what heart could'ferhear
to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner
provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such a

desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledged to proceed?

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had brought me some little refreshment, such ts the
shi ) all'orded, and such as the wretches that had been.
so ong his masters had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring
the things ashore that were for the governor; and, in-
deed, it was a present as if I had been one that was not
to be carried awa with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the is and still. First, he had brought me
a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six
large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two
quarts each), two pounds of excellent good tobacco,
twelve good vieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of
pork, with a a of peas, and about an hundred weight
of biscuit: he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of
flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles oflime juice,
and abundance of other things. But besides these, and
what was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought
me six new clean shirts, six very good neckclotbs, two
pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of
stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of his own, '3;
which had been worn but very little; in a word, he '
clothed me from head to foot. I t was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in
niy circumstances; but never was any thing in the world
0

that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it
was to me to wear such clothes at first.

After .these ceremonies were passed, and after all his
good things were brought into my little apartment, we

we had; for it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, es ecially
two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigi la and
refractory to the last degree; and the captain said he
knew they were such rogues that there was no oblig-
tug them, and if he did carry them away, it must he
'0 "008. as malefaetors, to be delivered over to ijustice
at the first English colon he could come at;and found
that the captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this I told him, that if he desired it, I would un-
dertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it
their own request that he should leave them upon the
island. " I should be very glad ot'that,"sa s the cap--
tain, " with all my heart.'---" \Vell," says , " I will
send for them up, and talk with them for you." So I
caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now
discharged, their comrades having performed their pro-
mise; I say, I eaused them to go to the cave, and bring
up the live men, pinioued as they were, to the bower,
and keep them there till leame. After some time, I
came thither dressed in my new habit; and now I was
ealled governor again. Being all met, and the captain
with me, [caused the men to be brought before me,
and I told them I had got a full account of their vil-
lanous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run

away with the shi i, and were "'0 ariug to commit far-
. l I P .

ther robberies, but that l'rovit ence had eusnared them

in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the
pit whieh they had dog for others. I let them know
that by my direction the ship had been seized ; that she
lay now in the road; and they might see by and by,
that their new captain had received the reward of his
yillanv, and that they would see him hanging at the

yard arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they
had to sav why I should not execute them as pirates,

taken in the fact, as by my commission they could not

doubt but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that

they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implored m mercy. But I told them I knew
not what mercy to 8 now them ; for as for myself, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England ; and
as for the captain, he could not carry them to England,
other than as prisoners, in irons, to it: tried for mutiny
and running away with the ship; the consequence of
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island; il'they
deszred that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had
some inclination to give them their lives, if they thought
thev could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful
furit, and said they would much rather venture to stay
there than he carried to England to be hanged: so I
left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some dillicnlty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this
I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that they Were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I
had olfered them so much favour, I would he as good
as my word; and that if he did not think lit to consent
to it, I would set them at liberty as I found them; and
if he did not like it, he might take them again if he
mold catch them. Upon this they appeared very
thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and
hade them retire into the woods to the place whence
they came, and I would leave them some firearms,
some amnnmition, and some directions how they should
live very well, if they thought lit. Upon this l pre-
pared to go on board the ship; but told the captain I
would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired
him to go on heard, in the mean time, and keep all
right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day
for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause the new
captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm,
that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, [sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into dis-
course with them on their circumstances. I told them
I thought they had made a right choice; that if the
captain had carried them away, they would certainly
be hanged. lshowed them the new captain hanging
at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.

\Vhen they had all declared their willingness to stay,
I then told them I would let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making It
easy to them: accordingly, I gave them the whole his-
tory of the place, and of m coming to it; showed them
my fortifications, the way made my bread, planted my
corn, cured my gra es; and, in a word, all that was
necessary to make t em easy. I told them the story
also of the seventeen Spaniards that were to be expect-
ed, for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. Here it may
be noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was
greatly surprised that I never hit upon a way of mak-
ing in ' of charcoal and water, or of something else, as
I had done things much more dillicult.

I left them my lirearms, viz. live muskets, three
fowlingpieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel
and a hall' of powder left; for after the lirst year or
two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and dim--
tions to milk and fallen them, and to make both butter
and cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my
own story; and told them I should prevail with the
captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more,
and some garden seeds, which I told them I would
have been very glad ol': also I gave them the hagof
was which the captain had brought me to eat, and

ade them he sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the shi . 'Ve prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weig I that night. The next morning
early, two of the live men came swimming to the ship's
side, and [ital-Ling the most lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the
captain to take them on board, though he hanged them
immediately. Upon this the captain pretended to have
no power without me; but after some dilliculty, and
alter their solemn promises of amendment, they WCIC
taken on board, and were some time after soundly

whipped and pickled; after which they proved very
honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men ;
to which the captain, at m intercession, caused their
chests and clothes to be a ded, which they took, and
were very thankful for. [also encouraged them, by
telling them that it' it lay in my power to send any ves-
sel to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for reliques, the great goatskin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also 1 for ot not to
take the money] formerly mentioned, whic had lain
bv me so long useless that it was grown rust or tar-
nisht'tl, and could hardly pass for silver, til it had
been a little rubbed and handled; as also the money I
found in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus I
left the island, the 19th of December, as I found by the
ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen
davs; being delivered from this second captivity the
same day of the mouth that I first made to escape in
the long-boat, from among the Moors of Sal ee. In this
vessel, after a long voyage, Iarrived in England the

ttth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger
to all the world as if I had never been known there.
My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left
my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the sc-
eoud time, and very low in the world. [made her
very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude
for her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock would atl'ord; which at that time
would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindness
tome; nor did I forget her when I had sullicient to
help her, as shall be observed in its proper place. I
went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father
was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct,
exeept that I found two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago
given over for dead, there had been no provision: made
for me; so that, in a word, I found nothin to relieve
or assist me; and that the little money I ha would not
do much for me as to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the toaster of the
ship whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same
means saved the ship and cargo, having given a very
handsome account. to the owners of the manner how I
had saved the lives of the men, and the ship. they in-
vnted me to meet them and some other merchants con--
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome
com Iiment upon the subject, and a present of almost
200 . sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this would
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some infor-
mation of the state of my plantation in the llrazils, and
of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason
to suppose, had some years past given me over for
dead. With this view I took shipping for Lisbon,
where I arrived in April following; my man Friday
accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings,
and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
"hell I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and
to my partieular satist'aetion, my old friend the eaptain
ofthe ship who lirst took me up at sea otl' the shore of
Africa. He was now grown old, and had left otl'going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a young
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade.
The old man did not know me; and, indeed, I hardly
knew him: but I soon brought him to my remembrance,
and as soon brought myself to his remembrance, when
I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old ae-
quaintanee between us, I inquired, you maybe sure.
after my plantation and my partner. The old man told
me he had not been in the lirazils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came away
my partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had
jomed with him to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead : that, however, he believed I would have a
very good account of the improvement of the planta-
tion ; for that upon the general beliet'ot' my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the ac-
count ot'the produce of my part ofthe plantation: to the
procurator tiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I
never came to elaim it, one-third to the king, and two-
thirds to the. monastery of St. Augustine, to be expend-
ed for the benefit ot'the poor, and for the conversion of
the Indians to the Catholic faith ; but that it' I appear-
ed, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it would
be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could
not be restored: but he assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue from lands, and the provedore. or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along
that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave
every year a faithful account ofthe produce, of which
they had duly received my moiety? I asked him if he
knew to what height of improvement he had brought
the plantation, and whether he thought it might be
worth looking after; or whether, on my going thither,
lshnnld meet with any obstruction to my possessing
my just right in the moiety? He told me he could not
tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improv-
ed; but this he knew, that my partner was grown ex-
ceeding rieh upon the enjoying his part of it ; and that,
to the best of his remembrance, he had heard that the
king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religious house,
amounted to above two hundred moidores a year: that
as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the conritry; also he told me,
that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair
honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed I
would not only have their assistance for putting tne in
possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the pro-
duce ot' the farm while their fathers held the trust, and
before it was given up, as abme; which, as he remem-
bered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myselt'a little concerned and uneasy at this
account, and inquired of the old captain how it came
to pass that the trustees should thus dispose of my
etl'ects, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal
heir, &c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor,
until some certain account should come of my death;
and. besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with
a thing so remote: that it was true he had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and could he have given
any account of my being dead or alive he would have
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the in-
geino (so they called the sugar house), and have given
his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders to do it.
" But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news
to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable in
you asthc rest; and that is, believing you were lost.
and all the world believing so also, your partner and
trustees did otl'er to account with me, in your name, for
the first six or eight years' profits, which I received.
There being at that time great disbursements for in-
creasing the works, building an ingeino, and buying
slaves, it did not amount to near so much as afterwards
it produced: however," says the old mall, "I shall
give you a true account of what I have received in all,
and how I have disposed ofit."

After a few da 3' farther conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the first six years
income of my plantation, si ned by my partner and the
merchant-trustees, being a ways delivered in goods,
viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum,
molasses. &C. which is the consequence of a sugar--
work; and 1 found by this account, that every year
the income considerably increased; but, as above, the
disbursements being large, the sum at first was small:
however the old man let me see that he was debtor to
me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides
sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco,
which were lost in his ship; be having been shipwreck-
ed coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after
my leaving the place. The good man then be an to
complain of his mislbrtnncs, and how he ha been
obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses,
and buy him a share in a new ship. " However, my
old friend," says he, " you shall not want a supply in
your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you s all
be fully satisfied." Upon this he pulls out an old
pouch, and gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal
moidores in gold; and giving the writings of his title
to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in,
of which he was a quarter-part owner, and his son ano:

ther, he puts them both into my hands for security ol
the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man to be able to bear this; and re-
membering what he had done for me, how he had taken
me up at sea, and how generously he had used me on
all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at
what he had said to me; therefore I asked him ii his

circumstances admitted him to spare so much money

at that time, and if it would not straiten him? He told

me he could not say but it might straiten him a little;

but, however, it was my money, and I might want it

more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of all'ection,
and I could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke;
in short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and
t'llllCd for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them :
then I returned him the rest, and told him if everI
had possession: of the plantation, I would return the
other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and
that as to the hill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I
would not take it by any means; but that if I wanted
the monev, I found he was honest enough to pay me;
and if] did not, but came to receive what he gave me
reason to expect,l would never have a penny more
from him.

When this was passed, the old man asked me if he
should put me into a method to make my claim to my
plantation .' I told him I thought to go over to it my-
self. He said I might do so it' I pleased; but that if
I did not, there were ways enough to secure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use:
and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready
to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his allidavit, allirming, upon oath,
that I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said p antation at
first. This being regularly attested by a notary. "Pd ll
procuration aflixed, he directed me to send it, .With a

etter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then proposed my staying With him
till an account came of the return.

Never was an thing more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon t iis procnration; for in less than seven

months I received a large packet from the survivors of
my trustees, the merchants, for whose account I went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.

First, There was the aeeonut-current ol' the pro-
duce of my lawn or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old l'ortugal cap-
lain, being for six years; the halanee appeared to he
one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores
in my t'avonr.

Seeontllv, There was the aeeount of four years more,
while they kept the ell'ects in their hands, before the
government elaimed the administration, as being the
ell'eets ot' a person not to be found, whieb they called
civil death ; aml the balanee of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amounted to nineteen thousand
four hundred and forty-sis erusadoes, being about three
thousand two hundred and forty moitlores.

'l'hiully, There was the prior of St. Augustine's ae-
eount, who had reeeived the prolits for above fourteen
years; but not being to aeeonut for what was disposed
ol' by the hospital, very honestly declared he. had eight
hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed,
wbieh he aeknowledged to my aeeonut: as to the king's
part, that refunded notbim".

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very atli-etionately upon my being alive, giving me
an aeeonut how the estate was improved, and what it
prodneed a year; with a partienlar ot' the number of
squares oraeres that it contained, bow planted, how many
slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty
crosses l'or blessings, told me. he had said so many Ave
Jllurius to thank the blessed Virgin that l was alive;
inviting me very passionately to come over and take
possession of my own ; and, in the mean time, to give
him orders to whom he should deliver my ell'ects, if
I did not come myself; concluding with a hearty ten-
der of his friendship, and that of his fainily; and sent
me, as a present, seven line leopards' skins, which he
had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other ship
that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made
a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests

ot' escellent sweetmeats, and a hundred pieces of gold
unconued, not quite so large as moidores. By the same
fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one thou-
sand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls
of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in gold.

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the llutterings of my very heart when I found
all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come
all in llects, the same ships which brought my letters
brought my goods: and the ell'ects were safe in the
river before the letters came to my hand. In a word,
I turned pale, and grew sick ; and had not the old man
run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden sur-
prise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon
the spot: nay, after that, I continued very ill, aml was
so some hours, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the real cause of my illness being known, he
ordered me to be let blood; after which I had relief,
aml grow well: but I verin believe, if] had not been
eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I
should have died.

I was new master, all on a sudden, of above five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thou-
sand ponnds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I
searcc knew how to understand, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing I did

was to recom case my original benefactor, my good
old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my
distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me
at the end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I
told him, that next to the providence of Heaven, which
disposed all things, it was owing to him; and that it
now lay on me to reward him, which I would do a bun-
dred fold: so I first returned to him the hundred moi-
dores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general release or dis-
char e from the four hundred and seventy moidores,
whic he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest
and firmest manner possible. After which I caused a

procuration to be drawn, empowering him to beljny
regelver of the annual profits of my plantation, andfilp-
Pomllng my partner to account with him, and make the
returns by the usual fleets to him in my name; anda
clause in the. end, beingr a grant of one' hundred moi-
dores a year to him during his life, out of the efl'ec-ts.
and fifty moidores a year to his son after him, for Ills
life: and thus I requited my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that I'rovidenee
had thus put into my hands; a'ud, indeed, I had more
rare upon my head now than I had in my silent stain-
of life. in the island, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereasl
had now a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it. I had never a care now to hide my
money in, or a place where it might lie without lock or
key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any body
would meddle with it; on the contrary, I knew not
where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old pa-
tron the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the
only refuge I had. In the next place, my interest in
the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I
could not tell how to think of going thither till I had
settled my affairs, and left my etleets in some safe hands
behind me. At first [thought of my old friend the
widow, who I knew was honest, and would be just to
me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
nught I knew, might be in debt ; so that, in a word, I
I had no way but to go back to England myself, and
take my etl'eets with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore, as] had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my
former benetaetor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor.
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a Incr-
ehant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in Lon-
don, not only to pay a bill, but to go had her out, and
carry her in money a hundred pounds from me, and to
talk \ 'ith her, and comfort her in her poverty, by tell-
ing her she should, if I lived, have a further supply:
at the same time I sent my two sisters in the country a
hundred pounds each, they being, though not in want,

yet not in very good circumstances; one having been
married and left a widow; and the other having a hus-
band not so kind to her as he should be. But among
all my relations or acilluaintauces, I could not yet itch
upon one to whom durst commit the mas o my
stock, that I might go away to the Brazi s', and leave
things sat'o behind me; and this greatly )cr lexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to tile Erazils, and
have settled mysell'thcre, for l was, as it were, natu-
rulized to the place; but] had some little scruple in
my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me
haek. However, it was not religion that he it me from
going there for the western; and as l hat made no
seruple of being open y of the religion of the country
all the while I was among them, so neither did 1 yet;
only that, now and then, having of late thought more
of it than formerly, when I began to think of living
and dying among them, I began to regret my having
professed myself a l'apist, and thought it might not be
the best religion to die with.

But, as l have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I
did not know with whom to leave my cll'eets behind
me; so I resolved, at last, 'to go to England with it,
where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some
aeqnaintanee, or find some relations that would be
faithful to me; and accordingly, lprepared to go to
England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first,
the Brazil llect heingjust going away, resolved to give
answers suitable to the just and faithful account of
things I had from thence; and, first, to the prior of St.
Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks for their just
dealings, and the oll'er of the eight hundred and se-
venty-two moidores which were undisposed of, whieh
I desired might be given, five hundred to the monastery,
and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the
prior should direct; desiring the good adre's prayers
for me, and the like. I wrote next a etter of thanks
to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that
so much justice and honesty called for; as for sending
them any present, they were far above havmg any
occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner. ac-

knowledging his industry in the improung the planta-
tiou, and his integrity in increasing the stock of the
works; giving him instructions for his future govern-
ment of my part, accordingto the powers] had left with
my old patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever
became due to me, till he should hear from me more
particularly ; assuring him that it was my intention not
only to come to him. but to settle myself there for the
remainder of my life. To this I added a very hand.
some present of some Italian silks for his wife and two
daughters, for such the eaplaiu's son informed me he
had; with two pieces of line English broad cloth, the
best I could get in Lisbon, live pieces of black baize,
and some Flanders lace ol'a good value.

Having thus settled my all'airs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my ell'eets into good bills of exchange, my
next dillieulty was, which way to go to England: I
had been aeeustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England by sea atthat time;
and though I could give no reason for it, yet the dith-
eulty increased upon me so much, that though I had
once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasons; but let no man
slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases
of such moment: two of the ships which I had singled
out to go in, I mean more particularly singled out than
any other, having put my things on board one of them,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain; I
say. two of these shi s miscarried, viz. one was taken
by the Algeriues, an the other was cast away on the
Start, near 'l'orbay, and all the people drowned, except

three; so that in either of those vessels I had been
made miserable.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pressed

me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go y land
to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to
Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe
journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover;
or to go up to Madaid, and so all the way by land
through France. In a word, I was so prepossessed

against my going by sea at all, except from Calais to
Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way b land;
which, as l was not in haste, and did not va ue the
charge, was by much the leasanter way: and to make it
more so, my old captain roughtan English gentleman,
the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to
travel with me; after which we picked up two more
English merchants also, and two young Portuguese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only ; so that in all
there were six of us, and live servants; the two mer-
chants and the two Portuguese eontenting themselves
with one servant between two, to save the charge; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a
servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a
stranger to be capable of supp ying the place of a ser-
vant on the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon ; and our com-
pany being very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honour to call me
captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as be-
cause 1 had two servants, and, indeed was the original
of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals,
so I shall trouble you now with none of my land jour-
nal; but some adventures that happened to us in this
tedious and dillicultjourney I must not omit.

\Vhen wezcame to Madrid, we, being all of us stran-
gers to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the
court of Spain, and to see what was worth observing ;
but it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened
away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of
October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with
an account that so much snow was fallen on the French
side of the mountains, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having at-
teu'tpted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.

hen we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so
indeed; and to me, that had been always used to a hot
climate, and to countries. where I could scarce bear
any clothes on, the cold was insull'erable: nor indeed,
was it more painful than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was

not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a
VOL. I. r
wind from the l'yrenean mountains so very keen, so
severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
nnmbing and perishing ot'onr fingers and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. To
mend the matter, when we eame to Pampeluna, it eou~
tinned snowing with so much violence and so long
that the people said winter was come before its time;
and the roads, which were diflicnlt before, were now
quite impassable; for, in a word, the snow lay in some
places too thiek for us to travel. and being not hard
frozen, as is the ease in the northern countries, there
was no going without being in danger of being buried
alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty days
at l'ampeluna j. when seeing the winter coming on, and
no likelihood of its being better, for it was the seVerest
winter all ov er 'Iurope that had been known in the me-
mory of man, I proposed that we should all go away
to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaus,
which was a very little voyage. But while I was con"
sidering this, there came in four French gentlemen, who
having been stopped on the French side of the passes,
as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide,who,
traversing the country near the head of Langnedoe,
had brought them over the mountains by such ways
that they were not mueh ineommoded with the snow ;
for where they met with snow in any quantity, they
said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their
horses. \Ve sent for this guide, who told us he would
undertake to carry us the same way with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufliciently to
protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he said, upon
these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being
made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. \Ve told him we were well enough
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he would
ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we
were told, we were in most danger from, es ecially on
the French side of the mountains. He satis ed us that
there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were
to go, so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also
twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to
go, and were obliged to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out fr ampeluna, with our
guide, on the 15d: of Novembe (and, indeed, I was
surprised, when, instead of going forward, he came
directly back with us on the same road that we came
from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant, and no snow to be seen ; but on a sudden,
turning to his lelt, he approached the mountains ano-
ther way; and though it is true the hills and precipices
looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we
insensihly passed the height of the mountains without
being much encumbered with the snow; and, all on a
sudden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful ro-
""008 of Langnedoc and Gascony, all green and on-
rishing, though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had
some rough way to pass still.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we
could not travel; but. be bid us be easy; we should
soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we began to
descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, de ending upon our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
out ofa hollow way adjoining to a thick wood: two of
the wolves made at the guide, and had he been far be-
fore us, he would have been devoured before we could
have helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse,
and the other attacked the man with that violence, that
he had not time or presence of mind enough to draw
his pistol, but ballooed and cried out to us must lustily,
My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and
see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in
sight of the man, he ballooed out as loud as the other,
" 0 master! 0 master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode

directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the
wolf that attacked him in the head. '
it was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having: lwcn used to suvh creatures in
his country, he had no fear upon him, hut \vcnt close
up to him and shot him, as above; whereas any other
of us would have tired at a further distance, and have
perhaps either missedthe well, or endangered shooting
the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man
than I ; and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when
with the noise of l4'riday's pistol, we heard on both
sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and the noise,
redonbledhy the echo of the mountains, appeared to
us as if there had been a prodigious numlwr of them;
and perhaps there was not such a few as that we had no
cause ofapprehcnsions: however, as Friday had killed
this wolf. the other that. had fastened upon the horse
left him immediately, and tied, without doing him any
damage, having happily fastened upon his head, where
the bosses ot'the hridle had stuck in his teeth. But the
man was most hurt; for the. raging creature had hit
him twice, once in the arm, and the other time a little
above his knee; and though he had made some de-
fence, hewasjust as it were tumbling down by the dis--
0rd]? of his horse, when Friday came up and shot. the
we .

 

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as
the way, which was very ditlicult, would give us leave,
to see what was themattcr. As soon as we came clear
of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the ease, and how Friday had disengaged
the poor guide, though we did not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had lulled.

But never was a light managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all though
at first we were surprised and afraid for him,t 0 rest-
est diversion imaginable. As the bear is a eavy
clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
who is swift and li ht, so he has two particular quali-
ties, which general y are the rule of his actions: first,
as to men, who are not his propfir prey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack him, un-
less he be excessive hungry, which it is probable might
now be the case, the ground being covered with snow),
it' you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with
ten; but then you must take care to be very civil to
him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gen-
tleman; he will not go a step out of his way for a
prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is
to look another way. and keep going on; for some-
times if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly
at him, he takes it for an afi'ront; but if you throw or

toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were
but a hit of stick as big as your finger, he thinks him-
self abused, and sets all other business aside to pursue
his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of honour;
----this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once
atl'ronted, he will never leave you, night nor day, till he
has his revenge, but follows at a good round rate till
he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to lum, he was helping him off from his
horse, for the man was both hurt and frightened, when
on a sudden we espied the bear come out of the wood,
and a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that
ever I saw. \Ve were all a little surprised when we
saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see
joy and courage in the fellow's countenance: " 0, O, O !"
says Friday, three times, pointing to him ; " 0 master!
you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him; me
makee you good laugh."
l was surprised to see the. fellow so well pleased:
" You fool," says I, " he will eat you up."--" Flatt-e
me up! eatee me up !" says Friday, twice over again;
" me cute-e him up; tne makee you good laugh; you
all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, and gets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a
pair of pumps (as we call the llat sltoes they wear, and
which he had in his pocket), gives my other servant
his horse, and with his gun away he llew, swift like the
wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to med-
dle with nobody. till Friday coming pretty near, calls
to him. as it' the hear could understand him, " "ark
ye, hark ye," says Friday, " me speakee with you."
W'e followed at a distance, for now being come down
on the Gaseouy side of the mountains, we were entered
a vast Ion-st, where the country was plain and pretty
open, though it had many trees in it scattered here and
there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the
bear, came up with him quickly. and takes up a great
stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head,
but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it
against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he. did it purely to make
the hear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he
called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw
him, ilt' turns almut, and comes after him, taking devi|~
ish long strides, and shuflling on at a strange rate, so as
would have put a horse to a tniddling gallop: away
runs Paiday, and takes his course as if he run towards
us for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
bear. and deliver my man; though I was angry at him
heartily for bringing the hear back upon us, when he
was going about his own business another way: and
especially l was angry that he had turned the hear upon
us, and then run awa ' ; and I called out, " You dog, is
this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your
horse, that we mav shoot the creature." He heard me,
and cried out, "'No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and
you get much laugh :" and as the nimble creature ran
two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree (it for [us
purpose, he beckoned to us to follow; and doubling
his pace, he gets mmbly up the tree, laying his gun
down upon the ground, at about hve or six yards from
the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to the
tree, and we followed at a distance: the first thing he
did, he stopped at the gun, smelled to it, but let it lie,
and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat,
though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly,
as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life
see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up
the tree, we all rode near to him.

"'hen we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small end of a large branch, and the bear got
about halfway to him. As soon as the bear got out to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker,--
" Ila!" says he to us, " now you see me teachee the
bear daneez" so he falls a jumping and shaking the
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood
still, and began to look behind him. to see how he
should get back : then, indeed, we did laugh heartil '.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal;
when seeing him stand still, he calls out to him again,
as if he had supposed the bear could speak English.
" \Vhat, you come no farther? pray you come farther ;"
so he leftjnmping and shaking the tree ; and the bear,
just as if he understood what he said, did come a little
farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. We thought now was a good time to
knock him in the head, and called to Friday to stand
still, and we would shoot the bear: but he cried out
earnestly, " O pray! O pray! no shoot, me sheet by
and then :" he would have said by and by. However,
to shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the
bear stood so tiekhsh, that we had laughing enough,
but still could not imagine what the fellow would do:
for first we thought he depended upon ,shaking the
bear 011'; and we tound the bear was too cunning for
that too; for he would not go out far enough to be
thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad claws
and feet, so that we could not imagine what would be
the end of it, and what the jest would be at last. But
Friday put us out of doubt nickly: for seeing the bear

cling fast to the bongh, an that he would not be per.
snarled to onmn any farther. " "'0", well," says Friday.
'deg you no onme t'arlhor. mo go; you no come to me. llio
eunm to you :i' and tlpott this he goes out it) the smaller
end nt' tho hnngh. where it would head with his weight.
and gently lots himself down lw it, sliding down tln-
hnngh till ho eamo near onough to jump down on his
foot. and away he runs In his gun. takes it up, and stands
still. " \\ ell." said I to him. " Friday, what will you
do nnw.' "'hy don't you shoot him ?"----" No shoot."
says Friday . " no yot ; mo shoot now, me no hill ; me
stay. giy o you one moro laugh :" and. indeed, so he did.
as you will see presently; for when the hour saw his
enemy gone. he eoines hark from tho hougli where he
stood. but did it mighty eantinnsly. looking behind
him every step. and coming haelxward till he got into
the body of tho treo; then with tho samo hinder end
foremost. ho eame down the tree. grasping it with his
elaws. and moving one font at a time. Very leisurely.
At this juncture. and just before he oould sot his hind
font on the ground. Friday stopped up close. to him.
elapped the munlo of his piece into his ear, and shot
him dead. 'l'hen tho rogue turned ahnnt to see if we
did not laugh ; and when he saw we were pleased, hy-
our lonhs. he falls a laughing himself very loud. " S.>>
we kill hear in my country," says Friday. " Sn \'lm
kill them?" says I, " why. you have no gnus."----" No,"
says he. 'deg nn gun, lint shoot great nun-h long arrow."
This was a good diwrsinn to us; but we were still in
a wild plaoo. and our guide very mnoh hurt, and what
to do we hardly know: the howling of wolves rau much
in my head ; and, indeed, except the noise I once. hoard
on tho shore of "lieu. of which I lime said something
already. 1 never heard anything that filled me with so
tuut'll horror.

'l'heso. things. and the ap )roaeh of night, called as
(ill. or else, as Friday WOUlt have had us, we should
eortainly have taken the skin ot'this monstrous creature
oti', whioh was worth saving; but we had near three
leagues to go. and our guide hastened us; so we left
him. and went forward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow. though not
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the
ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest and plain country, pressed by
hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the
country people, killed a great runny of their sheep and
horses, and mum people too. \Ve bad one dangerous
place to pass, which, our guide told us, if there were
more wolves in the country we should find them there;
and this was a small plain, surrounded with w0ods on
every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we
were to pass to get through the wood, and then we
should come to the village where we Were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered
the lirst wood, and a little alter sunset when we came
into the plain; we met with nothing in the first wood,
except that in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two fun-longs over, we saw tive great wolves
<<Toss the road, full s need, one after another, as if they
had been in chase oll some prey, and had it in view;
they took no notice of us. and Were gone out ofsight in
a few moments. Upon this our guide, who by the way
was but a taint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready
posture. for he believed there were more wolves a corn-
izig. \Ve kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us ;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain. As soon as we came into the ilain, we had occa-
sion enough to look about us: the irst object we met
with was a dead horse, that is to sav, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
thetn at work, we could not say eating of him, but
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten u ) all
the flesh before. We did not think fit to disturb t tent
at their feast, neither did they take much notice of us.
Friday would have let fly at them, but I would not
suffer him by any means ; for I found we were like to
have more business upon our hands than we were aware
of. \Ve were not gone half over the plain, when we
began to hear the wolves bowl in the wood on our left
In a frightful manner, and presently after we saw about
a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced officers. 1 scarce knew in
what manner to receive them, but found, to draw our-
selves in a close line was the only way ; so we formed
in a moment: but that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered that only every other man should
fire, and that the others who had not tired should stand
ready to give them aseeond volley immediately, ifthey
continued to advance upon us; and then that those who
had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees
again, but stand ready, every one Willi a pistol, for we
were all armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each
man; 50 we. were, by this method, able to lire six vol-
leys, half of us at a time: however, at present we had
no necessity ; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy
made a full stop. being terrified as well with the noise
as with the tire; four of them, being shot in the head,
dropped; several others were wounded, and went
bleeding of], as we could see by the snow. I found
they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; where-
upon, rememberingthat I had been told that the fiercest
creatures were terrified at the. voice of a man, I caused
all the company to halloo as loud as we could; and I
found the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our
shout they began to retire, and turn about. I then or.
dered a second volley to be lired in their rear, which
put them to the gaIIOp, and away they went to the
woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces
again; and that we might lose no time. we kept going:
but we had but little more than loaded our fusees, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard aterrible
noise in the same wood on our left, only that it was
farther onward, the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on our side; but the noise
increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the
howling and yelling ofthose hellish creatures; and, on
a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves,
one on our left, one behind us, and one in our front,
so that we seemed to be surrounded with them: how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way
forward, as last as we could make our horses go, which,
the way being very rough. was only a good hard trot.
In this manner we came in view of the entrance of a
wood, through which we were to pass, at the farther

- side of the plain"; but we were greatly surprised, when
coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a
sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
noise of a gun, and looking that way, out rushed a
horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full
speed ; indeed the horse had the heels of them, but as
we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we
doubted not but they would get up with him at last;
no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up
to the entrance where the horse came out, we found
the carcasses of another horse and of two men, devoured
by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no
doubt the same whom we heard lire the gun, for there
lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his
head and the upper iart of his body were eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey;
and l verily believe there were three hundred of them.
It happened very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage. I drew m little troop in among those trees,
and placing ourse ves in a line behind one long tree,
I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree he-
t'ore us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three

fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre. We did so,
and it was well we did; for never was a more furious
charge than the creatures made upon us in this place.
They came on with a growling kind of noise, and
mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was our
breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon _their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was princnpall
occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us.
ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure, that they killed se-
veral ot the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual tiring, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we284 ltt-'l-i ANI) Anvrzs'wnes

thought tliev stopped a little. and I hoped they would
have gone oil', but it was but a moment. for others emnv
forward again ; so we tired two volleys of our iistols;
and I llt'lit'\t' in these four lirings we had hillt't seren-
lren or eightren of them. and lamed tw ice as many. yet
they ranw on again. I was loath to spend our shot ton
hastily ; so I ralled mr servant. not my auto Friday. for
he ".1... lwltrr em ilnird. for, with the greatest de\-
terity imaginnlilo, he had charged my linen and his own
while we were engaged; hut. as I said. I ralled my
other man. and giving him a horn of powder, I hade
him lay a train all along the piere ol' timlwr. uml let it
he a large train. He did so ; and had lint just time to
get aw a}. when the wolves came up to it. and some got
upon it, when I. snapping nn nnrhargi-d pistol rloso tn
the powder. set it on tire: those that were upon the
timher were srnrrln-d with it, and si\ or seven nl'them
fell. or rather jumped in among us. with the force and
fright ol' the tire; we dispatched these in an instant, and
the rest were so frightened with tho light. which the
night. for it was now very near dark. made more torri-
hle, that they drew hark a little; upon which I ordered
our last pistols to he tired MT in one Miller. and utter
that we gaw a shout: upon this tho wolves turned
tail, and we sallied immediately upon nrar twenty lame
ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell a
cutting them with our swords. whirh answered ottr ex-
ieetatinn; for the crying aml howling they made was
Letter understood by their fellows; so that they all tied
and left us.

"'e had. tirst and last. killed about threeseore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The lield of battle heing thus cleared, we made
torward again. for we had still near a league to go.
""e heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the
wands as we went. several times, and sometimes we
famoied we saw some of them, hut the snow dazzling
our e_ws. we Were not certain: in about an hour more
we came to the town where we were to lodge, which
we found in a terrible t'right, and all in arms; for, it
seems, the night before, the wolves and some hours had
broke into the village. and put them in such terror
that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but
especially in the night, to preaerve their rattle, and, in-
deed, their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled so much with the molding of his two wonnda,
that he rnnld go no further; so we were obliged to talse
a new guide here. and go to 'l'honlonse, where we
found a warm climate, it l'ruitl'nl, ileaaant country, and
no nnuw, no~ wolros, nor any thing ilte them: but when
we told our story at 'l'honlouao, they told no it Will
nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the
loot ol' the mountains, enpet'lallv when the anow lay on
the ground; but they inquired much what lsind of a
guide we had got. who would venture to bring us that
on} in sin-h a severe aeason; and told on it wan aur-
prising we weie not all devoured. \Vhen we told
them how we placed ourneIVes, and the horses in the
middle, they blamed na exremlingly, and told on it was
lil'ty to one but we had been all destroyed; for it was
the sight of the horses which made the WoIVon so furi-
ous, seeing their Prey; and that, at other times, they
are really afraid ot a gun ; but being excessive hungry,
and raging on that arc-omit, the eagerness to come at the
horses had made them senseless of danger; and that it'
We had not, by the continued line, and at last by the
stratagem of tho train of powder, mastered them, It had
lu'rn great odds but that we had been torn to pieces:
whereas, had we ln-rll eontent to have not still on horne-
bnck, and tired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much for their own. when men were on
their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that
at last, if we had stood all together, and left our horses,
they would haw been so eager to have devoured them
that we might have come oll'safe, especially having our
tire-arms in our band>>, and being so man in number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of c anger in my
life; for seeing above three hundred devils come roar-

ing and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those
mountains again; I think 1 would much rather go a
thousand leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with

a storm once a week. .
l have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through Franco, nothing but what other travel-
ers have given an aooount of with nmeb more advan-
tage tlnm I run. I traveled from 'l'honlouse to Paris,
and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, tho t-tth ol'Jauuary, alter having
a sovoro cold season to travel in. i

l u as now route to the eoutro ol'my travols. and had
in a little time all my now-disooverod estate sale about
me; tho hills of owhauge which I brought with me
having been vory currently paid.

My principal guide aml privy counsellor was my
good unoiout widow; who, in gratitude lor tho mono)
I had sent her. thought no pains too much. nor care too
grout, to omplo_v for me; and I trusted her so entirely
with every thin}.r that l was perfectly easy as to tho
Security of my oll'eots: and, indeed, I was very happy
from the beginning. and now to tho end, in the unspotted
integrity of this good gontlowoman.

And now having rosolved to dispose of my plantation
in tho lirazils. I wrote to my old l'rtend at laiSllull; who
having otl'ored it to the H") morohants, the survivors
of my trustoos, who livod in tho Brazjls, they accepted
the oll'or, and romittod thirty-three thousand pieces-of-
oight to a oorrospomlcnt of theirs at Lisbon, to pay
for it.

In return, I signed tho instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon. and sent it to my old man,
who sent mo the bills of exchange for 32,800 piooos-ol'-
eight for the estate ; roserving the payment ot 100 mot-
doros a y air to him (tho old man) duringr his life, and
50 moidoros afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them; and which the plantation was to
make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the lirst part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of
l'rovidonoe's ohoquor-work, and of a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like of: begin-
ning foolishly, but closing much more happily than any
part of it over gave me leave so much as to hope for.

Any one would think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune. l was past running any more hazards, and
so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred; but I was innred to a wandering life, had no
family, nor many relations; nor, however rich, had 1
contracted mach acquaintance; and though I had sold
my estate in the Ilrazils. yet I could not lseep that coun-
try out of my head, amt had a great mind to be upon
the wing again; especially I could not resist the strong
inclination I had to see my islaml, and to ltnow if the
poor Spaniards were in being there. M v true friend.
the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far
prevailed with me. that. for almost. seven .years. she
prevented my running abroad; during wlllt'll time I
took my two nephews, the children of one of my bro-
thers, into my care: the eldest having something of his
own, I hred up as a gentleman, amt gave him a settle-
ment of some addition to his estate, after my decease.
The other I put out to a captain of a ship: and after five
years, finding him a sensible, hold, enterprising young
fellow. I put him into a good ship. and sent him to sea:
and this young fellow alterwards drew my in, as old as
I was, to farther adventures my self. .

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here; for,
first of all, I married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction, aml had three children, two
sons aml one daughter; but my wife dying. and my
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage
to Spain, my inclination to go abroad, amt his impor-
tunity, prevailed, aml engaged me to go in his ship as a
private trader to the Iiast Indies: this was in the year
ltitlk

In this voyage I visited my new colon in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had I re whole story
of their lives, and of the villains I left there; how at
tirst they insulted the wor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, disagreet , united, separated. and how at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how
honestly the Spaniards used them; a historv. if it were
entered into, as full of variet and wonderful accidents
as my own part: particular? also as tootheir battles
with the Carthheans, who Ian ed several tunes upon the
island, and as to the improvement they made upon the
island itself; and how live of them made an attempt
upon the main land, and brought away eleven men and
live women prisoners; by which, at my coming, I found
about twenty young children on the island.288 ADVENTURES 0t-' ROBINSON causes.

Here I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der. shot. clot ms. tools. and two workmen, which I
broo'ght from England with me; via. a carpenter and a
smit t.

Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them.

reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts respective! as theya 'reed on; and.
having settled all things wit them. an engaged them
not to leave the lace, I left them there. .

From thence touched at the Brazils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I boufht there, with more poo le. to
the island; and in it, insides other supplies, i' sent
seven women, being such as! found preper for service.
or for wives to such as would take them. Asto the Eng-
lishmen,l promised them to send them some Women from
England. with a good cargo of necessaries, if the would

pp y themselves to planting; which I afterwar would
u not perform. The fellows proved very honest and dili-
gent, afler thev were mastered. and had their pro rties
set apart for them. I sent them also from the manila
live cows. three of them being big with calf, some
sheep. and some hogs. which, when 1 came again, were
considerably increased. '- '

But all these things, with an account how three hun-
dred Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined
their plantations, and how they [on ht with that whole
number twice, and were at tirst efeated and one of
them killed ; hot at last a storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they furnished or destroyed almost all the rest,
and renewed and recovered the possession of their plan-
tation, and still lived u )0" the island.

All these things, wit I some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own, for ten vears more,'

1 shall give a further account ofin another iolume.'

END 0!" VOL. I.

 

m-..-

C. \'t'hiuingham. College House, Chtswick.