RUBINSUN CRUSOE AT DINNER.3.

THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

OF YORK, MARINER.

WITH

AN ACCOUNT OF HIS TRAVELS. ROUND THREE
PARTS OF THE GLOBE.

W'ITI! ILLUSTRATIONS BY ZWECKER.
COMPLETE EDITION.

button: _
JAMES BLACKWOOD AND CO., 8, LOVELL'S COURT,
PATERNOSTER ROW.PRE FACE.

1: worth story of any private man's aflmhm in the world wm wortfimnkingpn'blio, and
mmphblowhenpnbfishod,thamtoroflhismoutthinhthiawfllboso.

Thewonflmsofthiam'aliieexceedfllthltmthhzhfinhbefonndmtsfllefife
otonemanbeingawcoespsbleofagnawnrioty.

The atoryistoldwithmdesty,wifl| ufiummnufiwitharofigiouappfiufionofm
"the uses towhioh wise man always apply themniafothoiumndothm, bythil
amphmdtojnsfifyandhonmflmwhdnmofProvidenooinnllthvuriatyofouroitcm-
mumhtthemhnpponiawtheywill.

TheEditm-believulhothinghboajuthishry offichneithuisfhmanyappunnoo 'm
offintioninit; and however mum all nehthingu m disputatthattheimpmn-
autoimuwellfoflwdhenionastotheinmncfionoftheioader,willbeth9m;mdu
mohhethinhnvithontfuthermphmfihmwmlfihedouflmn38mtmiooh
themblimfion. 'ms
LIFE AN D ADVENTURES

0'

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

_..._

Iwrsborn intheyearl632intheeityofY=ork,ofagoodPSamil .tho h not of thatoou ,
myfather'beinga foreigner of Bremen. who settled first at 11.11. 0301-. am am
merchandise, and leaving of his trade, lived aflerward at York; from whence he had '
my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good family in that country. and_
from whom I was called Robinson Kreutsnaer; but by the usual com tion of words in
England, we are now called. nay we call ourselves, and write our name roses; and somy
com 'ons always called me. .

I ad two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenanboolonel to an English regiment of foot
in Flanders, formerly commanded by the muons Colonel Lockhert. and was killed at the
battle near Dunkirk ' t the Spaniards. What Income of my second brother I neverknew, 4
an morethunm erormotherdidknowwhatwasbecomeofme.

' the ' son of the family, and not bred to anytrnde my head begnnfobe filled
very early with rambling thoughts. My PSather, who was very snoieut,'had given me a oom-
petent share of learninges for as house education and a country free-school generallygoec.
and designed me for the law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and
my inclination fothis led me so strongly againstthe will, nay the commode of my lather,
and fininst all the entreaties and persuasion: of my mother and other friends, that there
seem tobe somethingfstalinthatpropensionofnaturetmding directlytothe lifeof
misery which was to befall me. . . '

Myfnther,awise d grave-man, gave me serious and excellent counsel againstwhst he
fomw was my design. He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
lined by the gout, and <<postulated very warmly with me 11g: this subject; he nsked -
me what reason more than a mere wandering inclination I for leaving my father's
house and my native country. where I might be well introduced, and had a. pineal of
raising my fortune by application and in ustry. with a. life of ease and pleasure. told
me it was for men of menu) fortunes on one hand. or of aspiring superior fortunes on
the other, who went ah upon adventures to rise by enterprise, and make themselves -
ismousinundertakingsofia namre out of theeommonroad; thatthessthingswerenll-eithc IA
too far above me, or too hr belowrne; that mine was the middlostate,pr what mightbe'
oalledthenppeu- stationoi low fifq'whiohhehndfonndbylong wasthehest'x
state in the world, the most suited to human happiness. W mm F.
hardshipgthelabouraudsnfi'erings of the meehhuwperto! ' and embarrassed '
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy, of the upper part of mankind. e told me I V
mishtjndge ofthe happiness of this state bythis one ' , viz-thatthiswnsjhe Me 41'
Mewhmhallotherpeofieenvied;fhethingshave uen ylamented theynseraliegom--
meneesofbeingborn gmtthingnandwishthey heenplsoedinthemrddleofthntwo
e _mes,betweenthe mean nndthe ;thntthewisemangaveh'ntesfimonytothl
themtstendardoftruefelioity,when pnyedtohnveneitherpovertyornohes. -6 The Life and Adventure: of Robinson Cmroc.

He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities of life were shared
among the upper and lower part of mankind; but that the. middle station hadthe fewest
disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind;
nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses either of body or mind.
as those were who by vicious living. luxury, and ertravagancies on one hand, or by hard
labour, want of necessaries, and mean or insuficient diet on the other hand. brin distemper:
upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that the middlestation
0 life was calculated for all kind of virtues, and all land of enjoyments; that peace and

lent were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, uietness,

ealt , society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the lessings
attendi the middle station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through
the <<035, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of
the head, not sold to the hfe of slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplllexed circum-
stances, which rob the soul of peace and the y of rest; not enraged with e passion of
envy or secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but in easy circumstances, sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling
that they are happy, and learning by every day's experience to know it more sensibly.

After-this, he pressed me earnestl , and in the most afi'ectionate manner, notto pla the
young man, not to recipitate myse into miseries which nature and the station of ' e I
wnsborn in seemed 0 have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
bread; that he would do well for me and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of
life which he had been just recommending to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my more fate or ault that must hinder it, and that he should have
nothing to answcr for; having thus dischar ed his dn in warning me against measures which
he knew would be to my hurt: in awor .that as ewould dove kind thingsformeifl
would my and settle at home as he directed, so he would not ave so much hand in
my misfortunes, as to give me any oncourngementto go away. And to close all, he told me
I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had used the same earnest parsnasions
to keep him from going into the low country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the arm , where he was killed; and thou he said he would not
cease to ray for me, yet he won (I venture to say to me thatif did take this foolish step,
God we d not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was trul prophetic, though I sup
my father did not know it to be so himself; I say, I observ the tears run wn his ce
very lentifully, and especiall when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that
when e s ke of mv having eisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved
that he bro e 03' the discourse, and told me his heart was so full he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely afiected with this discourse, as indeed who could be otherwise; and I resolved
not to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my father's desire.
But alas! a few days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of my father's further
importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I did
not act so hastily neither as my first heat of resolution prompted, but I took my mother, at a
time when I thou ht her a little pleasantcr than ordina , and told her that my thoughts
were so entire] nt n n seeing the world that I shoul never settle to an ' g with re<<
solution enoug to at rough with it, and my father had better give me hrs consent than
force me to go wit out it: that I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure. if I did, I should never
serve out my time, and I should certainly run away from my master before my time
was out, and go to sea; and if she would s to my fatherto let me but one voyage
abroad, if I came home again and did not h e it, I would go no more, an I would promise
by a double diligence to recover that time I had lost.

This aput my mother into a great passion; she told me, she knew it would be to no purpose
to spe to my father upon any such subject; that he knew too well what was my interest toThe Life and Advenhtm quobinl-m Crusoe. 7

give his consent to any thin so much for my hurt, and that she wondered how I could think
of any such thingafter sue a discourse as I had had with mflather, and such kind and
tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me; and t in short. if I would ruin
myself, there was no help for me; but I ' ht de nd I should never have their consent to it;
that for her part she would not have so mu han in my destruction; and I should never have
it to say that my mother was willing when my tether was not.

Thrggh my mother refusedto move it to my father, yet, as I have heard afterwards, she
repo all the discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a great concern at it,
M to her with a sigh, "That holy might be happy if he would stay at'home, but if he
abroad, he will be the most misers 1e wreteh that was ever born; I can give no consent to it."

It ed" 1):" tilllalgroe: a. {Err alter this :hat I mgm, thong: in the geantime I con-
tinu o tinute ea to roposals o setthng' "uses. an uen expostuls, '
with my father dud mother a ut their being so positively determm against what %
knew "goincliuations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull. where I went casually,
and wi at any purpose of making an elopsment that time; but I. say, being there, and one
of my companions being going by sea to London, in his father's shrphand prompting me to go
with them, with the common sllurement of seafaring men, viz. :--that It should cost me no '
for my passage, I consulted neither father or mother any more, not so much as sent them wo
of it: but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my
father's, without any consideration of circumstances or co uences, and m an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1651, I went on board a ship und for London: never any
young sdventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or continued lon than mine. The
ship was no sooner got out of the Humber, but the Wind began to b ow, and the waves
toriseinamost htfulmsnner; and as Ihad neverbeenat seabsfore,Iwasmost
inexpressibly sic]: in y, and terrified in mind: I began now seriousl to reflect upon what
I had done, and how .juetly I was overtaken by the 'udgment of van tor my wicked
leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty; the good counsel of my parents. my
father s' tears and my mother's entreaties came now fresh into my mind, and my conscience.
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproaohed me
with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my tether.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had never been upon before, went
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor hhe what I saw a.
few do s after: but it was enough to affect me then, who was but a. young sailor, and had
never own anythin of the matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the sea,
we should never rise more, and in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God here to spare m hfe this one voyage, If ever I got_on_ce my foot
upon d land again I would directly ome to my father, and never _set it into a ship
againw ile I lived; thatho (1 take his advice, and never run myself into such miseries
as these an more. Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle
etsh'on of ' e, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all he do. and never_had been
exposed to tempsets at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved 1 would, like a true
re nting prodigal, go home to my father. . . _-

ese Wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm continued, and, indeed,
some time after; but the next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer,_a.nd I beganto be
a little inured to it; however I was very grave for all that day, being also a little sea-sick still;
but towards night the weather cleared up, the windwas quits over, and a shaman: fineevening
followed; the sun went down eotly clear, and rose so thenut mo ; an havmg little
or no wind, and a smooth sea, e sun shining upon it. the sight was, as thought, the most
delightful that ever I saw. _ _

.I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking
with wonder upon the see that was so rough and temhlo the day before, and could be so calm
and so pleasant in so little time alter. And now, lest my good resolutions should conhnue, my
mmpsmon who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me, "Well, Bob," says he, clapping ms

 

 

)
1
upon the shoulder, "How do fyou do after it? I warrant on were frighted, wan't you, last
night, when it blew but a cap all of wind? " "A cap full, 0 you call it? " said I. " It was a
terrible storm." "A storm. you fool you." replies he, " Do you call that a storm? why it was
nothing at all; give us butagood shi und sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall
of wind as that; but you're but a fres -water sailor, Bob: come, let. us make a bowl of punch,'
and we'll forget all that: do you see what charming weather it is now ? " To make short this
sad part of my story. we went the old way of all sailors: the punch was made, and I was made
drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I drowned al my repentance. all my reflections
upon in past conduct, and all my resolutions for my future. In a word, as the sea was
returne to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that stem, so
the ha of my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by
the sea ing forgotten, and the current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the
vows and promises that I made in my distress. I found, indeed. some intervals of reflection,
and the serious thou hts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes, but I shook
them off, and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper. and applying myself to
drink and company, soon mastered the return of those fits, for so I called them, and I had in
five or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any young fellow-that resolved
not to be troubled with it could dc<ire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and
Providence, as in such cases generally it (lees, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse.
For if I would not take this for a deliverance. the next was to be such a. one as the worst'
and most hardened wretelx among us would confess both the dancer and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads; the wind having been
contrary, and the weather calm. we had made but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor. and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. :--at soutlh
west, for seven or eight days. during which time a great man ships from Newcastle came into
the same roads. as the conuuon harbour where the ships mig it wait for a wind for the river.

We had not however rode here so long. but should have tidcd it up the river, but that the
wind blewloo fresh: and after we had lain four or five days. lvlcw very hard. However. the
roads being reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle very
strong. our men were unconcerned. and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent the
time in rest and mirth. after the manner of the sea; but the eighth day in the morning. the
wind inflamed, and we h- I all hands at work to strike our top-masts. and make every thing
snug and close, that the 2:! i might ride as easy as possible. By nnou the sea went very high
indeed, and our ship rode {ONCzu'llv in, shipped several seas. and we thought once or twice our
anchor had come home: upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we rode
with two anchors a-bead, and the cables veered out to the better end.

B this time it blew a terrible storm indeed: and now I began to see terror and amazement
in t e faces even of the seamen tlieum-lvcs. The master, though vigilant in the business of
)reserving the ship. yet as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to
himself say several timcS, " Lord. be merciful to us, we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone,"
and the like. During these first hurries I was stu rid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the
steerage, and cannot describe my temper: I could ill rc-nssnmc the first )enitcnee which I had
so apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself against; I thought t to bitterness of death
had been past, and that this would be nothin . like the first. But when the master himself
came by me. as I said just now, and said we 3 ould be all lost, I was dreadfully frightened; 1
got up out of my cabin, and looked out: but such a dismal sight I never saw: the sea went
mountains high. and broke upon us every three or four minutes: when I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress round us: two ships that rode near us, we found, had cut their
masts by the board.bciug deepladeu; and our men cried out, that a shi which rode about a
mile a-head of us was thundered. Two more ships being driven from t Icir anchors. were run
out of the roads to sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The light ships
fared the best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or three of them drove, and came
close by us, running away with only their spritsail out before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut away
the forcmast, which he was very unwilling to do: but the bostswaiu protesting to him, that
it he did not, the ship would founder. he consented; and when they had cut away the foremost,
the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much. they were ohligedto out her away
also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this. who was but a young sailor, and
who had been in such a fright before at but a little. But if I can express at this distance the
thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind u a account of
my former convictions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these, added to the terror of the str-rm, put me
into such a condition. that I can by no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet: the
storm continued with such fury. that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never
known a worse. life had a good ship, but she was (lee ) laden, and wallowed in the sen, that
the seamen ever now and then cried out, she would f'ounder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I ( id not know what they meant by founder, till I in aired. However, the storm
was so violent, that I saw what is not otten seen, the master, the tswuiu, and some others
more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting eve moment when the ship would
go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all t e rest of our distresses, one of
the men that had becn down on purpose to see, cried out, we had sprunga leak; another said
there was four foot water in the hole. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that very
word my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed
where I sat, into the mbin. However, the men roused me, and told me. that I that was able
to do nothing before, was as well able to map as another: at which I stirred up, and went to
the pump and worked very heartily. \ hile this was doing, the muster seeing some light
collicrs, who, not able to ride out the storm, were obli ed to slip and run away to sea, and would
not come near us, ordered to tire a gun as a signa of distress. I who knew nothing what
that meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing
happened. In a word, I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when every body had his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me;
but another man ste ped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been ( cad; and it was a great while before I came to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent that the shi would
founder; and though the storm began to abate a little. yet as it was not ibis she cou d swim
till we might run into a port, so the master continued firing guns for elp; and a light ship
who had rode it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard the boat come near us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship's side; till at, last, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to
save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stern with the buoy to it, and then veered it out
a great length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them
close under our stern and got all into their boat. It was to no par for them or us after we
were in the boat to think of reaching to their own ship, so all agree to let her drive. and_ only
to pull her in towards shore as much as we could, and our master promised them, that if the
boat was stared upon shore he would make it good to their master: so partly rowmg and
part] - driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far
as \ intertou-Xcss.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship before we saw her sink,
and then I understood for the first time what was meant by a shi oundering m the sea; I
must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen to d me she was sinking; for
from that moment they rather put me into the boat than that I might be said to go in: my
heart was as it were dead within me, partly with fright, partly wrth horror of mud, and the
thoughts of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the our to bring the boat near the
shore, we could see (when our boat mounting the waves we were able to see the shore) a great
many people running along the shore to assist us when we should come near, but wo_made but
slow way towards the shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till being past the hght-houseu

10 lec Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe.

at Winterton, the shore falls 011 to the westward towards Cromer, and so the land broke oh 3.
little the violence of the wind : here we got in. and, though not without much dificulty, got all
safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we
were used with great humanity, as well b the magistrates of the town, who assigned as good
quarters, as by particular merchants an owners of ship's, and had money given us sufiiclent
to ca us either to London or back to Hull, as we thoug t fit.

Had now had the sense to have gone back to Hall, and havigone home, I had been ha y,
and my father, an emblem of our blessed Savionr's parable, h even killed the fatted or
me; for hearin the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Road, it was a. greet
while before he ad an assurance that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pus led me on now with an ohstinacy that nothing could resist; and though
I had several times loud calls from my reason and in more composed judgment to go home.
yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to cal this, nor Will I urge that it is a secret
overruling decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction, even though
it'bebefore us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly nothing but some
such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it was impossible for me to escape,
could have pushed me forward against the calm reasoniugs and 'persuasions of my most retired
thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as I met wi in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the master's son, was now
less forward than I ; the first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not
till two or three days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters; I say, the first
tame he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered; and looking very melancholy, and shaking
his head, asked me how I did, and tellin his father who I was, and how I had come this
voyage only for a trial, in order to go fart or abroad. His father, turning to me with a very
grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he, " you ought never to go to sea any more,
you ought to take this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring man."
" Why, sir," said I, "will on go to see. no more ?" "That Is another case," said he. " it is my
calling. and therefore my uty; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste
heaven has given you of what on are to expect if you 'persist; perhaps this is all befallen
us on your account. like Jona in the ship of Tarshish. "Frag," continued he, " what are
you? and on what account did you go to sea?" U n that I to! him some of my story, at
the end of which he burst out with a strange kin of assion. " What had I done, ' says he,
" that such an unhappy wrcteh should come into my; '9! I would not set my foot in the
same ship with thee again for a thousand poun ." is indeed was. as I said, an excursion of
his spirits. which were yet a 'tated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have
authority to go. However. e afterwards talked ve gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to
my father and not tempt Providence to my rain; to (1 me I might see a visible hand of heaven
against me; " and, one man," said he, " depend upon it if you do not go back. wherever you

01%;: will meet wi no 'ug hut disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are

u upon you.'
We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him no more; which way he
went, know not As for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London by
land; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles with myself what course of life
I should take. and whether I should home or go to sea.
_ As to going home, shame oppo the best motions that ofiered to my thoughts; and it
Immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed at among the neighbours. and should be
ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I have
31000. often observed how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is.
especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are
not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for which they
ought Justl to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning which only can make them
be esteem wise men.

In this state otlife, however, I remained some time, uncertain what measures to take and
what course of hfe to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
stayed a while. the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore ofi', and as that abated,
the little motion I had in my desires to a. return wore of with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a v0

That evil influence which carried me away from my father's house, that hurried me
into the wild. and indigested notion of ' ' my fortune; and that impressed those conceits so
forcibly upon me. as to make me deaf to a good advice, and to the entreaties and even the
command of my father: I say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented the most unfor-
tunate of all enterprises to my view; and. I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of
Africa, or as our sailors vulgarmall it a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune in all these adventures I did not ship myself as a sailor,
whereb , though I might indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary. yet at the same
time I ad learned the duty and ofice of a foremost man; and in time might have qualified
myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fate to choose
for the worse, so I did here; for having money in my pocket, and clothes upon my back,
Iwould always go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so neither had any business
in the ship, or learned to do any.

It was my lot first of all to {all into pretty good company in London, which does not always
happen to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then was, the devil y not omit-
tini to lay some snare for them veg? ear ; but it was not so with me. I fell acquainted
wit the master of a ship who h been on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very
good success there, was resolved to 510 again; and who takin a fancy to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at at time, hearing me say had-a mind to see the world,
told me if I would go the vo age with him I should be at no expense. I should be his messmate
and his com 'cn. and if could carry an 'n with me I should have all the advantage of it
that the ti o would admit; and perhaps mig t meet with some encouragement.

I embraced the odor, and entering into a strict friendship with this captain, who was an
honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a. small adventure with
me, which by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably;
for I carried about 40!. in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This 401. I
had mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I corresponded with,
and who, I believe, got my father, or at least, my mother to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure.

This was the only vo which I may say was successful in all my adventures, and which I
owe to the integrity and onesty of my friend the captain, under whom also I got a competent
knowledge of e mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how to kee an account of
the ship s course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand some that were
needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delightto
learn, and in a word this voy madejme both a sailor and a merchant, for I brought home
five pounds nine ounces of go d dust for my adventure, which yielded 'me in London at my
refiner-in almost 3001., and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so com-
p my ruin. _ _

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too, particularly that I was continually sick,
being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate; our principal trading
being upon the coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north even to the_lino itself. .

I was now setu for a Guinea trader; and my friend. to mly great misfortune, dying soon
after his arrival, resolved to o the same voyage ' , and embarked in the same vessel
with one who was his mate in e former voyage, an had now got the command of the ship.
Thiswastheunhappiestvo ngethatevermanmade: fortho li Ididnotcurry guits 1091. of
my new gained wealth, so t I had 2001. left, and which Iniodged with my friend's widow,
w 0 was v just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage: and. the first was
this, vim--36'" shi making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those
islands and the 'ean shore, was surprised in the grey o the morning by a Turkish rover of
Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvas as our yards would spread. or our masts carry, to have got clear; but finding the
pirate gained a on us, and would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to
tight, our ship arin twelve guns and the rogue eighteen. About three inthe afternoon he
came up with us; an bringing to. by mistake, just athwart our quarter instead of athwart-
our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on that side. and poured in a
broadside upon him which made him sheer ofi' again, after returning our fire, and pouring in
also his small shot from near 200 men which he had on board. However, we had nota man
touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again and we to defend ourselves:
but laying us on board the next time u on our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting aurrhacking the decks and rig, 'ng. We plied them with
small shot, hulf-pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our 1 eck of them twice. How-
ever, to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our
men killed and eight wounded. we were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into
Sallce, a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended. nor was I carried up the
country to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were: but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his proper prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble and fit for his business.
At this surprising change of my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave. I was
perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon my father's rophetic discourse to me, that

should be miserable and have none to relieve me, which I t 10ll"l'lt was now so efi'ectnally
brought to pass that I could not be worse: that now the hand of heaven had overtaken me.
and was undone without redemption. Ilut, alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to
go through, as will appear in the sequel of the story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his house, so I was in hopes that he
would take me with him when he went to sea again, believing that it would some time or other
be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portn uese man of war; and that then I should be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon ta 'en away; for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden. and do the common drudner of slaves about his house;

and when he came home again from his cmisc, he ordered me (to 'e in the cabin to look after

the ship.

Here I meditatcd nothinn but my escape, and what method I might take to efi'ect it: but
found no way that had thedwst probability in it; nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational. For I had nobody to communicate it to, that would embark with me; no fellow-
slavc, no Englishman, Irishman. or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two years, though
I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least encoutaging prospect of
putting it in practice.

After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself, which put the old thought of
making some attempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home longer than
usual. without fitting out his ship. which, as I heard. was for want of money, he used con-
stantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pianos, and go out into the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a. young Maresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I roved very dexterons in catching
fish; insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a cor, one of his kinsmen. and the
youth--the Maresco as they called him--to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time that going a fishing in a stark calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that
though we were not half a league from the shore. we lost sight of it; and rowing we knew not
whither or which wa ', we laboured all day. and all the next night, and when the morning come
we found we had pu led oil' to sea instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least
two leagues from the shore. However, we got well in again, though with a great deal of labour
and some dan er : for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning, but, particularly, we
were all very ungry.

But our patron. warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of himself for the future;
and havin lying by him the long boat of our English ship he had taken, hc resolved he would
not go a shing any more without a compass and some revision; so he ordered the ca ter
of his ship who also was an English slave, to build a lit e state-room or cabin in the mi die of
the loan boat, like that of a barge with a place to stand behind it to steer andhale home the
main sheet, and room before for a. hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with
what we called a shoulder of mutton sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which
lay ve snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat
on, wi some small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink;
particularly, his bread, rice and coffee.

We went frequently out with this boat a fishing. and as I was most dexterons to catch fish
for him, he never went without me. It happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat.
either for $1938" or for fish, with two or t ree Moors of some distinction in that place. and
for whom e had provided extraordinarily ; and had therefore sent on board the heat over night
a larger store of provisions than ordinary; and had ordered ms to get ready three fusees With
po'fidel' geld. shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling as
we as s iing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next morning with the boat washed
clmn, her ancient and pendants out, and every thing to accommodate his guests; when by and
by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his 'guests had put ofi' going, upon some
business that fell out, and ordered me with the man an boy as usual, to go out with the boat

d catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded that
:soon as I got some fish I should bring it home to his house, all which I prepared to do.

This moment in former actions of deliverance darted into my thoughts, for now I found I
was like to have a ittle ship at my command; and my master being gone. I prepared to furnish
myself not for a fishin business. but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much
as consider, whither I s ould steer; for any w era to get out of that place was my way.

My first coutrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, to get something for our
subsistence on board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread. He
said that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars
with fresh water into the boat. I knew where my atron's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident by the make were taken out of some Eng 'sh prize; and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for our master. I conveyed
also a great lump of beeswax into the boat, which weighed about half a. hundred weight, with
a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer. all which were of great use to
us afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into also; his name was Ismael, who they call Mnly, or Moley; so I called to
him, " Moley," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the_boat, can you not get a little powder
and shot, it may be we may kill some alcamies (a. fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I
know he has )8 the gunncr's stores in the ship ?" " Yes," says he, " I'll brin some ; " and,
accordingly, e brought a great leather pouch which held about a pound and a alf of powder,
or rather more; and another with shot that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat. At the same time I had found some powder of my master's in the great
cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost em , pouring
what was in it into another; and thus furnished with everything needful we sail out of the
port to fish. The castle which is at the entrance of the {21;} knew who we were, and took no
notice of us: and we were not above a mile out of the rt ore we hauled in our sail, and set
us down to fish. The wind blew from the N.N.E., w 'ch was cont to my desire; for had
it blown southerly I had been sure to have made the coast'of Spdn, an at least reached to the
bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone tram that
horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

Afier we had fished some time and eatehed nothin , for when I had fish on my hook I would
not pull them up, that he might not see them; I said to the IlIoor, this will not do, our master
will not be thus served, we must stand farther 0E: he thinking no harm agreed, and being in
the head of the boat set the sails; and as I had the helm I' run the boat out near a league
farther. and then brou lit her to as if I would fish, when gmng the boy thehelmE I stepped
forward to where the 001- was, and making as if I stoo . or something behind him, I tool:
him by surprise with my am under histwist, and him clear overboard into the see. He
rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to me, begged to be taken in, told me he
would 0 all over the world with me; he swam so strong after the boat that he would have
reach me very quicklmthere bein but little windanpon which I_ste ped into the cabin, and
fetching one of the few ' -pieces, resented it at him, and told hun had done him no hurt,
and if he would be quiet would do 'm none: but. said I, you swim well enough to reach to
the shore, and the sea is calm, make the best of your we to shore, and I will do you no harm,
butifyon come near the boat I'll shoot you through the end; for I am resolved to have my
liberty: so he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and. I make no doubt but he
reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have drowned the boy, but
there was no venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, who they called
Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make on a great man, but if

on will not stroke your face to be true to me, that is, swear by omet and his father's
heard, I must throw you into the see. too : " the boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out directly to sea with the
boot, rather stretching to windward, that they might think me gone towards e Straits month

(as indeed an one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do), for who would
have supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole
nations 0 Negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could

never once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind.

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course, and steered directly south
and by east, bending my course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the shore;
and having: fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by
the next at three o clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I could not be less
than 150 ' es south of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or, indeed,
of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no fiople.

Yet such was the iright I had taken at the oors. and the dreadful apprehensions I had of
falling into their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor. The wind
continuin fairtill I had sailed in that manner live days, and then the wind shifting to the
southwa , I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would now
give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or what
river: I neither saw, or desired to see any people, the principal thing I wanted. was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolnng to swim on shore as soon as it was_dark, and
discover the country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures of we knew not what kinds, that the poor be
was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day. " Well, Xury,'_' sai
I, " then I won't, but it may be we ma see man by day, who will he as had to us as those hens."
" Then we give them the shoot gun, ' says Xury, la hing; " make them run wey." Such
English X spoke by conversing among as slaves. ewever I was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, an I gave him a drachm (ont of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him :3: after
all Xury's advice was good, and I took it; we drop our little anchor and lay still night;
I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three ours we saw vast great cream (we knew
not what to call them) of many sorts, come down to the seamhore and run into the water,
wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of coolinfikthomselves; and they made such
hideous howlings and yellings that I never indeed heard the ' e. .

Xury was dreadfun frightened, and, indeed, so was Itoo; but we were both more frightened
when we heard one 0 these ' hty creatures come swimming towards our boat: we could not
see him, but we might hea'i'nhim by his blowing to be a monstrous ha and furious beast.
X saiditwasslion,anditrnightbeso for a ht I know; but poor uryeried to me to
weig the anchor and row away. "No," says I, " ury, we can slip our cable with a buoy to it
and go of to sea, they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the
creature (whatever it was) within two om len b, which something surprised me; however. I
immediately stepped to the cabin-door and to ' up my gun fired at him, upon which he
immediately turned about, and swam towards the s ore again.

But it is inlrlpossible to describe the horrible noises, and 'deous cries and howlinge. that were
raised, as we upon the edge of the shore, as higher within the country, I: n the noise or
report of the gun; a thi I have some reason to believe those creatures never heard
be ore: this convinced me is there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another question too; for to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages, hadbeen as had as to have fallen into the hands of lions and

' rs; at least we were equally a prehsnsive of the danger of it.

that as it would, we were ob ' to go on shore somewhere or other for water. for we had
not a pint left in the boat; when or where to get to it was the point. Xury said, if I would
let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and hri some
to me. I asked him why he would go? why I should not go, and he stay in the boat The
boy answered with so much aflection that made me love him ever after. Se. he, " If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go we ." " Well, Xury," said I, " we will bo go, and if the
wildrnans come,wewill kill them, eyeball eetneitherofns;" so I ve Xury a iecs of
rush-bread to eat, and a drachm out of our patron's case of bottles whi I mention before;
and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and waded on shore;
carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming of canoes with savages down
the river: but the y seeing a low place about a mile up the country rambled to it; and. by-
and-by I saw him come runurng towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage, or
frightened with some wild beast, and I ran forward towards him to help him, but when I came
nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had
shot, like a here, but difierent in colour, and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it, and
it was very good meet; but the great joy that poor any came with, was to tell me he hadfonnd
good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such ' for water; for a little
higher up the creek where we were, we found the wster when the tide was out, which
flowed but a littleway up; sows filled our jars and feasted on the harewe had killed,a.nd
prepared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the
coun .

As had been one voyage to this coastbefore,I knew very welltbat the islands of the
_Canaries, and the Cape de Vsrd islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we were in, and did not arsetly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand of to sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have found some of these
islands. But in hopewas,thatiPS Istoodalo thisooest till I cametothst partwherethe
English traded. should find some of their v s upon their usual design of trade, that would
relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place whereI now was, must he that eoun , which 1 '
between the Emperor of Morocco's ominions and the Negroes, lies waste, an uninhsbw
except by wild beasts, the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone tarther south for fear of the
Moore; and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabi ' ,by reason of its harrenness; and, indeed,
both {creaking it because of the prodigious number tigers, lions, leopuds, and other furious
creatures which harbour there; so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where thezugo
hke an army,two or three thousand men at a lime; and, indeed. for near a hundred es
together upon this coat, we saw no ' huts waste uninhabited country by day; anth
nothrnghuthow' undress-in of dbeastsbynight. . _

Once _or twice in e day-time Iathought I saw the Pico of Teuenfi'e, being the high top of the
mountain Tenerifl'e in the Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out in hopes of reaching
thither; but having tried twice, I wnsforced in maxim winds, the see also gcang too
highfor mylittle vessel,soIresolvedtopursnemy designsndkespelongtheshoreq", _
Several times I was obli ed to land for fresh water after we had left this place; and once in
particular. being early in t e morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land which
was pretty high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes
were more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we had best
go farther oi! the shore, for, says he, " Look, yonder lies a. dreadful monstcr on the side of that
hillock fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed. for. it was
a terrible great run that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a iece of the bill that
hung as it werea little over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall 0 on s are and kill him."
Xury looked frightened, and said, " Me kill! he at me at one mout 1;" one mouthful he meant.
However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still; and took our biggest gun, which was
almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two sln s, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the third. for we had t rec pieces.
I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the first piece, to have
shot him in the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the slugs hit
his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up growlin at first. but finding his
leg broke fell down again, and then got upn a three legs. and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that had not hit him on the head; however, I took up
the second piece immediately. and though he began to move oll'. fired again, and shot him in
the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop. and make but little noise, but lay struggling
for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let him go on shore. " Well, go," said 1.
So the boy jumped into the water. and taking a. little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the
other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot
him in the head again, which despatchcd him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food : and I was very sorry to lose three chawes
of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said no
would have smne of him : so he comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet " For
what, Xur '3'" said 1. "Me cut all his head." said he. However, Xury could not cut olf his
head, but to cut oil'a foot. and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however. that rerhaps the skin of him might one way or other be of some
value to us: and [resolved to take at his skin, it I could So Xury and I went to work with
him; but Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it
took us up both the whole day; but at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the
{91' of our cabin, the sun elIcctually dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to

re u n.

All); this stop. we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve days, living very
sparingly on our provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no oftener into the
s lore than we were obliged to for fresh water: my design in this was, to make the river
Gambia or Sene al, that is to say, any where about the Cape de \'enl, where I was in ho ms to
meet with some Iluropean shin: and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to take. at to
seek for the Islands, or )erish t ere among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe,
which sailed either to t e coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape. or
those Islands; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that
I must meet with some ship, or must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have said, I began to see
that the land was inhabited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked.
I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but any was my better counsellor, and said
to me, " No go, no go : " however, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might talk to them. and
I found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed. they had no weapons in their
hands, except one, who had a [on slender stick, which any said was a lance, and that they
would throw them a great way wit good aim. So I kept at a distance, but talked with them
by signs as well as I could; and particularly made signs for something to eat: the beckoned to
me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered t e to of my
sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country, and in less than -an-hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as is the
produce of their country; but we neither knew what the one nor the other was: however,
we were willing to accept it, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ven-
turi on shore to them, and they were as much-afraid of us; but they took a safe way for
us iii for they brou ht it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood a great way ofl
till we fetched it on , and then came close to us again.

We made si s of thanks to them, for we had nothrn tomake them amends; but an oppor-
tunity ofl'ered at very instant to oblige them wonderf y; for while we were lying by the
shore, came two migh creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury, from
the mountains towa s the see; whether it was the male firming the female, cur-whether
they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more t n we could tell whether it was
usual or strange, but I believe it was the latter; because. in the first place, those ravenous
creatures seldom appear but in the night; and in the mend place, we found the people
terribl fri htened, especiall the women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly
from t em, ut the rest did; owever, as the two creatures ran directly into the water, they
did not seem to offer to fall u n any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea
and swam about as if the he come for their diversion. At last one of them began to come
nearer our boat than at I mooted, but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun
with all possible expedition, and e Xury load both the others. As soon as he came fairly
within my reach, I fired. and shot him directly in the head. Immediately he sunk down into
the water, but rose instantly, and lunged up and down as if he was struggling for life;
and so indeed he was: he immedratel' ymade to the shore, but between the wound, which was
his mortal hurt. and the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to expms the astonishment of these poor creatures at the noise and the fire
of my gun; some of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror. But when they saw the creature deed, and sunk in the water, and. that I mad
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and began to search
for the creature. I found him by his blood staini the water; and by the help of a rope, which I
slung round him. and gave the Negroes to haul, t ey dragged him on shore, and found that it
was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree, and the Negroes held up
their hands with admiration to think what it was I had killed him with.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire and the noise of the gun, swam on shore,
and ran up directly to the mountains from whence they came. nor could I at that distance know
what it was. I found uickly the Negroes were for eatin the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them ta e it as a favour from me, which w en I made signs to them that they
might take him, they were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him, and
though they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, the took of his skin as readil ,
and much more readil , than we could have done with a knife: sy ofiered me some of
flesh, which I decline , making as if I would give it them, but made signs for the skin, which
they gave me very freely, and hreu ht me a t deal more of their provision, which thou h I
did not understand, at I aeeep ; then made si s to them for_ some water, and he! out
one of my jars to em, turning it bottom up to show that It was empty, and that I
wanted to have it filled. They called immediatst to some of their friends, and there came two
women. and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this
they set down for me as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my Jars, and filled them all
three. The women were as stark naked as the men. . .

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water; and, leenng my fluently]
If , I made forward for about eleven days more, without afar-mg to go near the shore, '
till saw the land run out a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four or five
leagues before me; and, the seabsing very calm, I kept a large ofingto maksthrs point: at
length, doublin the point at about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the other
side to seawar ; than I concluded, as it was most certain Indeed, thatthrs was the Cape do
Verd, and those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a

a

<<flag
t distance, and I could not well tell what I had best to do. for if I should be taken with a
h gale of wind I might neither reach one nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was ve pensive, I ate ped into the cabin and set me down, Xury
ha ' the helm, when on n. and en the boy ori out, "Master, master, a shi with a saill.'
and e foolish boy was frightened out of his wits. thinking it must needs some of his
master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cabin. and immediately saw not only the ship, but what she was, VIZ.
that it was a Portu ese ship, and, as I thou ht, was bound tothe coast of Games. for Negroes.
But when I observ the course she steered, was soon convinced they were bound some other
way, and did not design to come an nearer to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea
as much as I could, resolving to spe ' with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come in their way, but that
they would be gone by before I could make any signal to them. But after I had crowded to the
utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their perspective-

lasses, and that it was some European boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some sh:
at was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and as
had my patron's ancient on board, I made a wait of it to them for a ' al of distress, and
fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they saw the smoke, ugh they did not
hear the gun. Upon these signals the very kindly brought-to, and lay-by for me, and in
about three hours' time I came upwith t em.

They asked me what I was. in ortuguese, and in S nish, and in French; but I understood
none of them; but at last u Scotch sailor, who was on , called to me, and I answered him,
and told him I was an Englishman, that I had made my esoa out of slavery from the
Moors at Sallec. Then they bade me come on board, and very 'ndly took me in, and all

m goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one would believe. that I was thus delivered. as
I esteemed it. from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and imme-
diately ofi'ered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he
generously told me he would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered
safe to me when I came to the Brazils; " for," says he, " I have saved your life on no other terms
than I would be glad to be saved myself; and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken
up inthe same condition. Besides,' said he, "when I carryyou to the Brazils, so great a.
way from your own country, if I should take from you what you have, you will be starved
there, and then I only take away that life I have given. No, no, Seignior Inglese," says
he, "Mr. Englishman, I will carry you thither in charit , and those thingswill help you to
buy your subsistence there, and your passage home again.'

As he was charitable in his pro , so he was just in the momma to a tittle, for he
ordered the seamen, that none sho d ofl'er to touch anything I ; then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might have them;
even so much as my three earthen jars.

Astomy boat it was a. very good one, and that he saw, and told me he would buy it of
me for the ship's use, and asked me what I would have for it? I told him he had been so

nerous to me in everything that I could not ofi'er to make any price of the boat,

at left it entirely to him; uppn which he told me he would give me a note of his hand
to pay me eighty pieces of eig t for it at Brazil, and when it came there, if any one oEered
to give more, he would make it up. He ofiered me also 8:3: pieces of eight more for
my boy Xury, which I was loth to take; not that I was not ' 'n to let the captain have
him, but I was very loth to sell the boy's liberty, who he assisted me so faith.
fully infrocuring my own. However, w on I let him know my reason, _he owned it to be
last, an ofiered me this medium, that he would 've the boy an obligation to set him free
mtenyearaifhsturnchhristiau. Uponthis,an Xurysayinghewas willingtogoto him,
I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the Bay do Todos los Santos, or
All-Saints Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered from
the rarest miserable of all conditions of life, and what to do next with myself I was now to
cons: er.

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can never enough remember: he would take
nothiu of me for my gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the
lion's s in, which I mi in my boat. and caused eve hing I had in the shigoto be punctually
delivered me; and what I was willing to sell he bong t, such as the case of ttles, two of my

guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax,for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I made .

about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo. and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of a good honest man like
himself. who had an I ado, as they call it; that is, a plantation and a sugar-house, I lived
with him some time, an acquainwd myself by that means with the manner of their plan '
and making of an r; and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they nch su -
denly, I resolved, ' I could get licence to settle there, I would turnlplanter amo em, resol '
in the mean time to find out some way to get my money, which had left in ndou, remi
to me. To this mpose, getting a kind of a. letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured) as my mono would reach, and formed a plan for my lantation and settle-
ggntfiudlizsh a. one as mig the suitable to the stock which Ipropose'd to myselftoreoeive

m

I badge neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English parents whose name was
Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. I cell him neighbour, because his plantation
lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well as
his; and we rather lanted for food, than anything else, for about two years. However, we
began to increase, an our land began to come into order; so that the third year we leafed
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of around ready for planting canes 1n the year
to come; but we both wanted help, and now I foun more than before. I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong that never did ' ht, was no great wonder. I had no remedy
but to go on; I was tten into an employment <<133. remote to my genius. and directly contrary
to the life I deligh in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke through all his
good advice. Na , I was coming into the very middle Men, or upper of low life, which

my father ad ' me to before; and which if I resolved to go on with, mifit as well have.
no.

stayed at home, and never have famed myself in the world as I had do d I used often
to say to myself, I could have done ' as well in England among my friends, as have gone five
thousand miles of! to do it, me strangers and sav in a wilderness, and at such distance
as never to hear from any part till; the world that had I e least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost regret. I had nobody to
converse with but now and then this neighbour, no work to be done but b the labour of my
hands; and I used to say, I lived 'ust like a. man cast away upon some late island, that
had nobody there but himself. But ow just has it been, and how should all men reflect that,
when the-{compare their resent conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may obhge them
to make e exchange, an be convinced of their former felicity, b their experience. _I as how

not has it been. that the truly solitary life I reflected on in an islhnd of mere desolation uld
my lot, who had so often urinatly compared it with the life which I then led, in which, hadI
continued, I had in all probab' 'ty been exceeding prosperous and rich. _

.I was in some degree settled in in measures for ' on the plantation before my kind
friend the captain of the sbi that too me u at m; for the shigvrhernamed there,
in providing his loading, an Earring for ' vo , near three months. on tafliig him
what little stock I had left ' me in London, gave me this friendly and sincere vice:
" Selgnor Inglese," says he (for so he always called me). " if you willgive me letters, and a pro-
cnrauon here in form to me, with orders to the person who has your money in London, to send
your effects toLisbou, tosuchpersonses Ishslldirect,and in suchgooda as arepro for
this-country, I will bring on the produce of them, God willing,at my return; but since uman
afimrs are all subject to and disasters, I would have you iva orders but forone hundred
pounds sterling, which you say is half your stack, and let the hazard he
that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to for your ""2: .

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so 'endly, that I could not but be convinced it
was the best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the ntlewoman with
whom I had left my money, and a rocnratiou to e ortuguese captain. as e desired.

I wrote the English captain's wi ow a full account of all my adventures, my slavery, escape,
and how I had met with the Portu captain at sea,the humanity of his behaviour, and
what condition I was new in, with al other necessary directions for my supply; and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means by some of the E lish merchants there,
to send over, not the order only, but a full account of my story. to a mere t at London, who
represented it elfectnally to her: whereupon, she not only delivered the money, but out of her
own pocket sent the Portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity
to me.

The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds in English goods, such as the cap-
tain had written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
totho Brazils; among which, without my direction, (for I was too young in my business to
think of them) he had taken carats have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for
my lantation, and which were of great use to me.

hen this cargo arrived I thought in fortune made, for I was surprised with 'oy of it;
and my good steward the captain had lai out the five pounds which in friend h sent him
for a present for himself, to purchase, and bring me over a servant an or bond for six years'
sen-ice. and would not accept of an consideration. except a little tobacco, which I would
have him accept, bein of my on p uce. _

Neither was this ; but my goods beiu all English manufactures, such as cloth, stufi's,
haize, and things particularly v uable an desirabe in the country, I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage, so that I may say I had more than four times the value of my
first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor nei hbour, I mean in the advancement of
my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought me a. egro slave, and an European servant
also; I mean another besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our greatest adversity, so
was it with me. I went on the next year with great success in m plantation; I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground. more than I had di of for accessories amon
my neighbours; and these fifty rolls. being each of above a hundred weight, were well cured
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now, increasing in business
and in wealth. my head began to be full of p 'ects and undertakings beyond my reach; such
as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in usiness.

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room for all the happy things to have
yet befallen me for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet retired life, and of
which he had so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full; but other things
attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all m own miseries; and particular I
w increasem fault, and double the reflections upon my , which in my future sorrows
should have eisure to make. All these miscarriages were rocured by my apparent obstinate
udheringto m foolish inclination of wanderin abroad, an pursuin that inclination in con-
tradiction to t e clearest views of doin myse good in a fair and p ' pursuit of these pro-
spects and those measures of life, whi nature and Providence concurred to present me with,
and to make my duty.

As I. had done thus in breaking awa from in parents. so I could not be content now, but
I must go and leave the happy new had of mg a rich and thriving man in my new
plantation, only to pursue e. rash and immodsrate desire of rising faster than the nature of
the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
thatiderer man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of health in the
W0! .

To comethenbythe just degreestothe parta'oularsofthissaartofmy sto ; ouma su
pose, that having now lived almost four years in the Brazils, nu beginning tearivye and pimp};-. _. .. V , _. v-,-<<- .1. arm's-res>>
, , v' ' s

Th Life and Adventure: quoh'nmr Crusoe. 2!

very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned the language, but had contracted
acquaintance and friendship among my fellowoplanters. as well as among the merchantsat
St. Salvadore, which was our port: and that in my discourses among them I had frequently
given themunaocountof mytwowyagestothewutoquincmths manner of Minus.
the uegroes there. and how it was to purchase uxpkon the coast, for tnfles, such as ,
toys. knives, scissors. hatchets, its of glass, and the e, not only gold dust, Guinea grains,
ele hants' teeth, dun, but negroes for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

y listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads, but especially to

that part which related to the buying negroes, which was a trade at that time not only not far
entered into. but as far- as it was, had been carried on by the Assientos, or permission of the
kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public, so that few negroes were bought, and
those excessive dear.
It happened. being in company with some merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and
talkin' g 0 those things very earnestlcz, three of them came to me the next morning' . and told
me they had been musing very mu upon what I had disooursed with them of the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me; and afier en'oiuing me secrecy, they told me
that the had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, an were straitcned for nothin so much as servants; that as itwasatradethat could
not be carried on, because they coal not publicly sell the negroes when they came home; so
they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide
them among their own aElantations; and in a word, the question was, whether I would go
their supercargointhe i ,tonianagethetmding partuponthe coast of Guinea; andthey
rigged :ka I should ve my equal share of the negrocs, without providing any part
c e s .

This was a fair pro , it must he confessed, had it been made to any one that had not
had a settlement and p ntation of his own to look after, which was in a flair way of coming to
be very considerable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered
and established, and had nothing to do but go on as Iliad beE'unJor three or fouryears
more, and to have sent for the other hundred pounds from Eng 11 and who in that time.
and with that little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand
pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for me to think o such a voyage, was the most
prgwsterons thing that ever man in such circumstances could be guilty of.

at I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the ofer, than I
could restrain' my[ first rambling designs' , when my father's good counsel was lost upon
me. In a word, told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would di at it to such as I should direct
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and on into writings or covenants to do so;
and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and efiects, in case of mlydeath.
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life as before, my universal err, but
obligiug himtodissoseofmyefi'ectsaslhaddirected in my wilLoue halfofthe produce
being to himself, an the other to be shipped to England. _

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve in efiects, and keep up miaplantation;
had I used half as much prudent>> to have looked into my own interest, and vs made a
judgment of what I ought to have done, and not to have done. I had certamly never gone , -
away from so prosperous an undertaking, leavin all the probable views of a thriving cir- 1
cumstancs, and gone upon a voyage to sea, stten ed with all its common hazards; to say .
nothin of the reasons I had to expect rticular misfortunes to myself.

But was hurried on, and obeyed b ' dly the dictates of my fancy rather than my reason:
and according] the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things done as
by agreement y my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the 1st of
.September, being the same day eight years that I went from my father and mother at Hall,
in order to not the rebel to their authority, and the fool to in own interest.

_ Our ship was about 120 tons burthen. carried six guns, an fourteen men, besides the master.
his boynnd myself; we had onboaxdno lsrgeeugootgoods,axceptoPS suchtoysnswerefit
for our trade with the negroes, such as heads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially
httle looking~glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the northward upon our own
coast, with design to stretch over for the African coast when they came about 10 or 12
d of northern latitude, which it seems was the manner of their course in those days. We
ha very good weather, only excessive hot, all the way u n our own coast. till we came the
height of Cape St. Augustine; from whence keeping f er of at see. we lost sight of land,
and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fernand de Neronha, holding our course N.E.
by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we passed the line in about twelve
days time, and were by our last observation in 7 degrees 22 min. northern latitude. when a
violent tornado or hurricane took us nite out of our knowledge: it began from the south-
east, came about to the north-west, an then settled into the northeast from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive; and
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the winds directed;
and during these twelve days I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up,
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men died of the calenture,
and one man and the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth da , the weather abating
alittle, the master made an observation as well as he could, and foun that he was in about
11 degrees north latitude, but that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference west from Cape
St. Anastino; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north rt of
Brazil, yond the river Amazones, toward that of the river Oren ue, commonly cal ed the
Great River, and beFan to consult with me what course he should to c. for the ship was leaky
and very much disab ed. and he was going directly back to the coast of Brazil. .

I was positively a ainst that, and lookin over the charts of the sea-coast of America
with him, we conclud there was no inhabi country for us to have recourse to, till we came
within the circle of the Caribbee Islands. and, therefore, resolved to stand away for Barbadocs,
which by keeping ofi' at sea,to avoid the indraught of the boy or gulf of Mexico, we might easily
perform, as we oped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make our
vo age to the coast of Africa without some assistanw, both to our ship and to ourselves.

ith this design we changed our course. and steered away N.W. by W. in order. to reach
some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief ; but our voyage was otherwise deter-
mined; for being in the latitude of 12 degrees 18 min., a second storm came upon as, which
carried us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very way of
all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger
of beimievoured by savages than ever returning to our own country. ~ '

In ' distress. the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early in the morning,
cried out, "Land!" and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of see-
ing whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment,
her motion being so sto pcd, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we
should all have perish immediately; and we were immediately driven into our close quarters,
to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea. _

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like condition, to describe or conceive
the consternation of men in such circumstances: we knew nothing where we were, or upon
what land it was we were driven, whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not
inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces,
unless the winds by a kind of miracle should turn immediately about. In a word, we sat
looking one upon another, and. expecting death every moment. and every man acting accord-
ingly as preparing for another war d, for there was little or nothin more for us to do in this:
that which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we in , was, that contrary to our .
exgctation the shi did not break yet. and that the master said the wind began to abate.

ow thou h we ound that the wind did n. little abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon
the send, an sticking too fast for us to expect her getting of, we were in adreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had
a boat at out stern, just before the storm, but she was first staved by dashing ' t the ship's
rudder, and in the next place she broke away, and either sunk or was driven o to sea, so there
was no be from her; we had another boat on board, but how to get her ofi into the sea was
a. doubtf thing: however, there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break
in ieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken alreadly.

2E1 this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and wit the help of the rest of
the men, they got her slung over the ship's side, and getting all into her, let go, and committed
ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea; for though the storm was
abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and mig t well be called,
" den wild zee," as the Dutch call the sea in a storm. ~

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high,
that the boat could not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we
had none, nor, if we had, could we have done anything with it; so we worked at the oar-towards
the land, though with hen hearts, like men oing to execution: for we all knew that when
the boat came nearer the gate, she would be hed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most earnest manner, and the wind
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well
as we could towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew not; the only
hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was, if we might happen
into some bay or golf, or the mouth of some river, where by t chance we might have run
our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and, perhaps, m e smooth water. But there was
nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked more
frightful than the sea.

tor we had rowed, or rather driven about a league and a. half, as we reckoned it, a raging
wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace.
In a word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once : and separating us, as
well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, 0 God! for we were all
swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when I sunk into the water; for
thou h I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath.
till t wave having driven me, or rather carried me a. vast way on towards the shore. and
havinglspent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost "23, but half dead with the
water took in. I had so much presence 0 mind as well as b left, that seeing myself
nearer the mainland than I exmtod, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on towards
the land as fast as I could, one another wave should return and take me up again. But I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the see. come after me as high as a great
hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or stre to contend with; my
business was to hold my breath, and rake myself upon the water, if could: and so by swim-
ming to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible: my greatest
concern now being that the sea, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it
came on, might not carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea .

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own
body; and I could feel in self earned with a mighty force and swiflness towards the shore, a
very way; but I he d my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my
migh I was ready to burst with holding m breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to
my immediate relief, I found my head and ds shoot out above the surface of the water;
and though it was not two seconds of time that 1 could keep myself so, yet it relieved me

greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was covered again with water a good while, but
notso ongbutIheld it out; and finding thewater had spent itself, and beganto return,I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments to recover breath. and till the water went from me. and then took to my
heels, and ran with what strength I had farther towards the shore. But neither would this

n.4,: ... ,_ a
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again, and twice more I
was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me; for the sea havintE hurried me
along as before, landed me. or rather dashed me against a piece of a rock. and at with such
force, as it left me senseless. and indeed helpless, as to my own dehverance; for the blow
taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were quite out of my bed ; and had it not
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the water; but recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered again with the water, I resolved
to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold miebreath, if possible. till the wave went
back. Now as the waves were not so high as at first, ing near land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so near the shore, that the next
wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the next
run I took I got to the mainland, where, to my great comfort, I elambered u the clifts of
the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of e reach of the
water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and thank God that my life was
saved in a case wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room to ho . I believe it
is impossible to express to the life what the ecstasies and transports of the son are, when it is
so saved, as I ma say, out of the ve re: and I do not wonder now at that custom, viz.
that when a ma] actor, who has the ter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be
turned 05', and has a reprieve brought to him: I say], I do not wonder that they bring a n
with it, to let him bleed that very moment than" him of it, that the surprise may not rive
the animal spirits from the heart, and overwhe him :--

" For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."

I walked about on the shore. lifting up my hands, and my whole being, as I may say,
wrapped up in the contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures and motions
whie I cannot describe, reflectin upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul ear but in self; for, as for them, I never ~saw them after-
mrds, or any sign of them, except three 0 their hats, one cup, and two shoes that were not
a ows.

I east in eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and froth of the sec being so big, I

acpluld'h y see it, it lay so far off, and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on
ere .

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition, I began to look
round me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found
my comforts abate, and that, m a word, I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was wet. had no
clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I see :25
prospect before me, but that of pcrishing with hun r, or being devoured by wild beasts:
that which was particularly afflicting to me, was, t I had no wee n either to hunt and
kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any 0 er creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs: in a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobaceoopipe,
and a little tobacco in a box; this was all my provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies
of mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman: night coming upon me, I began with a
heavy heart to consider what would be m lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come a road for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time, was, to get up into a thick bushy
tree hire a fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all ' ht, and con-
sider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of ' e. I walked
about a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did to
my great joy; and having drunk, and put a. little tobacco in myfmouth to prevent hunger, I
went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myse so, as that if I should sleep
I might not fall; an having cut me a short stick, like a. truncheon, for In defence, I took up

my lodging, and having been excessrvely fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and s ept as comfortably
as, I believe. few could have done in my condition, and found myself the most refreshed with it
that I think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm abated, so that theses did
notrage and swell as before; but that which surprised me most, was, that the ship was hfted ofi'
in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was dnven u almost
as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I ha been so bruised' bx aha das g me
against it; this bein 'within about a mile from the shore where I was. an the ship seeming
35mg upright ' , I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might save some necessary

or my use. -
when I came down from m apartment in the tree, I looked about me again. and the first
thing I found was the boat, w 'ch lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her, up upon the land,
about two miles on my right hand; I walked as far as I could upon_ the shore to have got to
her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat. which was about half a mile
broad; so I came back for the present, bein more intent upon getting at the ship, where I

hoped to find something for mi present aubsis nce.

little after noon I ound a see. very calm, and the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come
within a quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing of my 'ef: for I
saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been all sefenthat is to_ say, we all t
safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all co ort
and company, as I now was: this forced tears from my eyes in, but as there was little
relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I p ed oif my clothes, for the
weatlxlrl'lwas hot tLo I:trelfiity, and took the watgar; buxhel: I came bdfmflg?' defiteu'l'fiy
was 'greater ow owto tonboard,oras e a~groun ' ouo e
water, there was nothing withing: reach to la hold of. lyswam round her twice, and the
second time I spied a small piece 0 a rope, whic I wondered I did not see at first, hang down
by the fore-chains so low as that with great difficult; I t hold of it, and b the help of that
rope got up into the forecastle of the ship : here I cun that the shi was ulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side of a be of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head. low almost to the water; by
this means all her quarter was free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure
my firstwork was to search andto see whatwas spoiled an whatwas free; and first Ifouud
that all the shiE's provisions were dry, and untouched by the water; and bei very well
disposed to eat, went to the bread-room and tilled my pockets with biscuit, an ate it as I
went about other things. for I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin,
of which I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for what
was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to are.

Itwasinvainto sitstillandwishforwhatwas nottobehad,andthisextremityrnnsedmy
application. We had several spare yards. and two orthree large spars of wood, and a spare
top-mast or two in the ship; I resolved to tell to work with these, and E as many of em
overboard as I could manage for their wei ht, tying every one with a rope at they might not
drive away; when this was done I went own the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied
four of them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and his]? two
or three short iem of lank upon them crosawa , I found I could walk upon it very , but
that it was no able to hear any great weight, e pieces bein too light; so I went to work,
and with the carpenter's saw I cut a yam top-must into three engths. and added them to my
raft, with a great deal of labour an pains : but hope of furnishing myselfwith necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have done upon another occasion. -

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight; my next care was what to
load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not
longoonsrdering this: I first laid all the planks or hoards upon it that I could and having
considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests, whic I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft; the first of these I filled with provi-
none. viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheese; five pieces of dfiedgoat'sflsahwhioh we livedmuoh
upon, and a little reminder of European corn which had been laid by for some fowls which we
bron ht to sea with us, but the fowls were killed; there had been some barley and wheat
toget er, but, to my great disa pointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled
it all; as for liquors, I foun several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons of rack; these I stowed by themselves.
there bein no need to put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I was doing this.
I found e tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the mortification to we my coat,
shirt. and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away; as for my brooches,
which were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them and my stockings: however.
this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more than I
wanted for present use. for I had other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to
work with on shore; and it was after long searching that I found out the carpenter's chest.
which was indeed a. very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a. ship-load of gold
would have been at that time: got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it contain .

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two veay fowling-pi
in the great' cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first, with some pow sr- orns, and a small
bag of shot, and two old rusty swords: I knew there were three barrels of wder in the ship,
but knew not where our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I ound them, two of
them dry and good, the third had taken water: those two I get to my raft, with the arms;
and now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should get to shore
zlilth them, having neither sail, ear, or rudder, and the least capfull of wind would have overset

my navigation.

I had three encouragements: l. A smooth, calm sea: 2. The tide rising and setting into the
shore: 3. What little wind there was, blew me towards the land: and thus, having found two
or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and beddes the tools which were in the chest, I
found two saws, an axe and a hammer. and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or there-
sbouts, m3 raft went very well, only that I found it drive a little distant from the place where
I had lan ed before, by which I perceived that there was some indraft of the water, and con-
" neatly Ihhoped to find some creek or river there, which I might make use of as a port to get

an wit my

As I imagined, sort was; there appeared before me a little opening of the land. and I found
a stro current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well I could to keep in the middle
of the ream: but here I had liked to have snfiered a. second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think
venly would have broken my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft run a-Eround at
one end of it upon a shoal, and not being a-gmund at the other end, it wanted but a 'ttle that
all my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I
did my utmost, by setting um back against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could
not thrust 05' the ran with my strength, neither durst I stir from the posture I was in; but
holding up the chests with all my might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level; and a little after, the water still
rising, my raft floated ' , and I thrust her of? with the ear I had, into the channel ; and then
driving up higher, I at ength found myself in the mouth of a little river, with land on both
sides, and a strong current or tide running up: I looked on both sides for a proper place to get
toshore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river, hoping in time to see some
shi at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as could

_ t length I ied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to which, with great pain and
difficulty, I i ed in raft, and at last got so near,as that, reaching ground with my oer, I
could thrust er dir y in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the sea again;
for that shore l ' g retty steep, that is to so sloping, there was no place to land, but where
one end of the oat, it run on shore, would is so In h, and the other sink lower as before,
that it would endanger my cargo again : all that I coulgl do. was to wait till the tide was at the
highest, keeping the raft with :3 our like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the shore,
near a flat piece of ground, whi I expected the water would flow over; and so it did. As
soon as I found water enough (for my raft draw about afoot of water), I thrust her on upon
that flat piece of ground. an there fastened or moored her by sticking my two broken oars into
the ground; one on one side near one end; and one on the other si near the other end; and
thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the coun , and seek a roger place for my habitation, and where
to stow my s, to secure them from whatever might appen; where I was I yet knew not;
whether on e contineutor on an island.whether inhabited or not inhabited.whether in dan of
wrld beasts or not; there was a hill not above smile from me, which rose up very steep and ' h,
and which seemed to oventop some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it northward; I
took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the istols, and a horn of powder, and thus
armed I travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill, where, alter I had with great labour
and difliculty got to the top, I saw my fate to in great afllictiou, viz. that I was in an island
environed every way with the sea, no land to seen, except some rocks which lay a great
my 03, and two small- islands less than this, which lay about three leagues to the west.

found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw good reason to believe,
uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of
(owls, but knew not their kinds, neither when I killed them could I tell what was fit for food.
and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree on the
side of a t wood; Ibelieve it was the first that had been fired there since the creation
of the wor d I had no sooner fired, but from allupirts of the wood there arose an innumerable
number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and cryin every one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew; as for e creature I killed,
took it to be a kind of hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws more
than common; its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and fell to work to bring m cargo
on shore, which took me up the mt of that day; and what to do with myself at night knew
not. nor indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowin but some
pild beast might devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was really no n for those

ears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with the cheats and boards that I
had brought on shore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's lodging: as for food. I yet saw
not which way to snppl myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run
mi "Wm "hm {'hiizuielmflia t t c t to! th sh hr hwould

now tocousi er, a ' e agree man ' on e i,w 'c

be useful tome, and particularly Eggs ofymegrigging and soils, an such other thih as might
come to land, and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel, ifpossib e; and as I -
knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in ieces, I resolved to set

all other things apart, till Igot every ' out of the shi thatI con d :then_I called a

council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whet er I should 0 back the : but this appeared
impracticable; so I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down, and I did so, 0 y that

I stripped before I went from my hat, hang: nothing on but a chequered shirt, and a pair of

linen trousers, and a pair of pumps on my 1' . .

Igotonboardtheahi ,asbefore, and reparedasecond raft; audhavmghadexpenenceof
the nrst, I neither In this so nuwiel y, nor loaded it so hard; but yet I bro ht away
several things very useful to me; as first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two or bags
full of nails and ikes, a screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all, that most
useful thing <<113 a grin tone : all these I secured, er with several things belonging to
the gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, an two barrels of musket-bullets, seven
muskets, and another fowlingjpiece, with some small uautity of powder more; a large bag full
ofsmdlshotandagreatro ofsheetlead;butthia wassoheavyIcouldnot mstrtup
to get it over the ship s ' . - ,.

Besides these thin , I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a spare foretzfi-nil, 1
hammock, and somsfidding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them safe
on shore, to my very great comfort.
_I was under some apprehensions during my absence from the land, that at least my provisions
might be devoured on shore; but when came back, I found no s' of any visitor, only there
sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when came towards it, ran away
a little distance, and then stood still: she set very composed, and unconcerned, and looked
full in my face, as ifshe had a mind to be acquainted with me; I presented my gun at her, but
as she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away:
upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit. though by the way I was not very free of it, for my
store was not great: however, I spared her a. bit. I say, and she went to it, smelled it, ate
it, ailigdlotgred, as pleased, for more: but I thanked her, and could spare no more; so she
marc o .

Having ' t in second cargo on shore, though I was fain to open the barrels of wder, and
bring themgb'y parcels (for they were too heavy, being large casks), I went to work snake rue
a little tent With the sail and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into this tent I
brought every thing that I knew won d spoil, either with rain or sun. and I filed all the em
chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any and en attempt, ei er
from man or beast.

When I had done this I blocked up the door of the tent with some boards within, and an
empty chest set up auend without: and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my
two pistols just at mxy head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and
sle t ve quietl a] night, for I was very wear? and heavy; for the night before I had slept
1i ,an hadla nredveryhardallday,as wel tofetch all those things from the ship,a.s
to them on shore.

had the biggest magazine of all kinds now, that ever were laid up, I believe, for one man;
but I was not satisfied still; for while the ship sat upright in thnt posture, I thought I ought
to get everything out of her that I could: so every da at low water I went on board, and
brought away something or other; but particular t e third time I went. I brought away
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the s ropes and rope twine I could with a
piece of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel 0 wet in-
powder: in a word, I brought away all the sails first and last, only that I was fain to cut t em
in pieces, and bripf as much at a time as I could; for they were no more useful to be sails. but
as mere canvas 0 y.

But that which comforted me more still, was. that. last of all, after I had made five or six
such voyages as these. and thought I had nothing more to from the shi that was
worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found a great ogshead of b , and three
large rnnlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar and a barrel of line flour: this was an rising
to me, because I had 'ven over expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled y the
water: I soon cmp ' the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it u ,purcel by parcel, in pieces
of the sails, which I cut out: and, in a word, I got all this safe on s ore also.

The next day I made another voyage; and now, having plundered the shi of what was
portable and fit to hand out, I n with the cables; and cutting the great en la into ieces,
such as I could move, I got two on lea and a hnwser on shore, with all the ironwork I can] get;
and having cut down the spritsail- rd, and the mizen- ard, and eve thing I could to make
a large raft, I loaded it with all osc heavy , an came away: ut my good luck began
now to leave me; for this raft was so unwiel y and so overladen. that after I had entered the
little cove, where I had landed the rest of mg goods, not being able to guide it so handil as
I did the other, it overset, and threw me an all my cargo into the water. As for myse it
was no great harm, for Iwas near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost,

ial y the iron, which I (1 would have been of great use to me: however, when the
ti was out, I at most of t e dpiecee of cable ashore; and some of the iron, though with
infinite labour; or I was fain to ip for it into the water, a. work which fatigued me very much.
After this, I went every day on board, and brought away what I could m

I had been new thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times on the ship, in which
time I had brought away all that one pair of hands could well be an posed capable to bring;
though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should have rought away the whole
ship, ecebypiece;hut ' thetwslfthh'meto onboard,Ifoundthew-indbegrn' to
rise : however, at low wate I weng on board, and thougfi thought I had ruin: the cabin
so efiectuelly, as that nothing more could be found. yet I discovered a locker wi drawers in
ihruoneofwhchlfoudtwoorthnemmandoue ' ofhrgelcimmwith some ten or
a dozen of good knives and forks; in another I found 1; thirty-six pounds value in money,
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of 6%... some go! some silver.

Ismrledtomyselfstthesightof thismou . " drug!" said I, aloud, "what art thou
goodies? thouartnctworthtomemmnot tskingofioftheground: one ofthoseknives
is worth all thisheap: I have no mannsrofuseforthee, even remain where than artandgo
to the hottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving." However, u second thoughts,
I took it swing; and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas. I began to thifiudf making another
raftibutw I wasp ' this,Ifonnd the skyovercsst. and thewindbegantorise,
and in a quarter of an our it lew a fresh gals from the shore. It presentl occurred to me.
that it was in vain to pretend to make araftwith the windofi'shoraan that it was my
business to be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the
shore at all; accordingly I let myself down into the water. and sworn across the channel. which
lay between the ship and the sands, and siren that with dificulty enough, partly with the
weight of things I had about me. and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all my wealth about me very
secure. It blew very hard all that ni ht; and in the morning when I looked out. behold no
more shipwastabeseen: Iwasali'. e surprised.but recovered myself with thiseatisfectory
reflection, viz. that I had lost no time. nor abated any diligence to get everything out of her
thatcouldbeusefnltome; andthatindeedthereweshttleleltinherthatlwasabe to bring
. awlay,ifIhsdhsAimoretirueill hts ft]: h' f ' t fh pt hat 'ht

now vsoversn more on o esi,oro anythm on o er.erce w ml
drive on gore from th wreck, usgindeed diversppieces of er afterwards did; but those hinges
"airfoil: hmwm hll 1 ed bout If at th (is

o tswerenowwo emo a scour-in mee ' eiersavuges'
any ihoulfippeer) or wild beast's, if En ywere in the islands; arid I hymen thoughts of the
method how to do this, and what kind 0 dwelling to make; whether I shonl make me a cave
in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and. in short,I resolved upon both, of the manner
and description of which it may not be im per'w 'vesn amount. .

I soon found the place I was in was not or my se ent, particularly because it was upon
a low moorish ground near the sea. and I believed would not be wholesome, and more partr-
cularly because there was no fresh water near it; so I ruched to find a more healthy and
more convenient spot of ground

I consulted several things in my situation which I found would be 5: for me: first,
health and fresh water, 1 Just now mentioned; secondly, shelter from s eat of the sun;
thirdl , security from ravenous creatures, whether man or beast; fourthly. a new to the see;
that Ll God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my delrveranw. of which
stenetwillingtobsnrshallmyexpeotationyet. _ .. _

In searchof aplscs pm for thie,Ifound a little lsinon the sideofansrnghill,whose
fronttowards this little painwas steep as e house-si s, so that nothing could come down
upon me from thetop; onthe side of thisrocktherewas a hollow place, worn_a httlem
in,alilke the entrance or door of a cave : but there was not really any cave or way into the
at .

0n the date! the green, 'nst before this hollow lace,Iresolved to pitch my tent: this

lain was notaboveahundredyardsbroad,aud uttwiceasleng.andlay_liksagreen

m to door, and at the end of it descended irregularly every way down into the low
grounds {y the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill, sothatI was sheltered from
theheateveryday. fillitoametoew.andby 8. sun, or tbueabcutawhxch inthoss
countries is near the setting. . .

Before I set up my tent, I drewahslf cimlebeforethehollow plseawhrchtookrn about
ten. yards ind its semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its
befinnm an en .

thisghalf circil'enfpitehed two rows of strong stakes, driving them into the ground till the
stood very firm, like piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about five feet and a ,
and ned on the top; the two rows did not stand above six inches from one another.

Then took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows one u n
another, within the circle between these two rows of stakes, u to the top, placing other eta es
in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a hal high, like a spur to a post; and
this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it: this cost me
a great deal of time and labour, especially to out the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this lace I made to be not by a door, but by a short ladder to go over the
top; which ladder, when was in, I lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in,
and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and consequenmt secure in the night.
which otherwise I eoul not have done; though, as it appeared , there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that I a rehended dan er from.

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite u'r, I carri all m riches, all my rovisions,
ammunition and stores, of which you have the account above; an I made me a tent,
which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the year are very violent thers,I made
double, viz. one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost
with a large ta ulin which I had saved among the sails.

And now I ay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought on shore, but in a
hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and belon to the mate of the shit};

Into this tent I brozfiht all my provisions, and every ' g that would spoil by e wet; and,
having thus enclosed m goods, I made u the entrance, which till now I had left open, and
so and repassed, as said, by a short der.

an I had done this, I began to work my "lain" the rock; and bringing all the earth and
stones that I dug down, out through my tent, I 'd them up within my fence in the nature of
a terrace, that so it raieml the ground within about afoot and shelf; and thus I made me a
cave just behind to rent, which served me like a cellar to my house. -

It cost me muc labour, and many da , before all these things were hroughtto perfech'on,
and, therefore, I must go back to some at er ' which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened. after I had laid my so eme for the setting 11 my tent, and making
the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud, a an den flash of lightning
happened, and after that a t clap of thunder, as is natural! the efiect of it: I was not
so much surprised with the ' htning, as I was with a thought w 'eh darted into m mind as
swift as the lightning itself: 0 my powder! my very heart sank within me, when thought,
that at one blast all in powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as thought, entirely depended: I was nothing near so anxious about my
own danger, though had the powder took fire, I had never known w 0 had hurt me. .

Such ingression did this make upon me, that after the storm was over, I laid aside all my
works, my uilding, and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the
powder, andto keeg it alittle an a little in a parcel, in hope, that whatever mi ht come, it
might not all take re at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not be poaefiyle to make
one fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I think, my powder,
whic in all was about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels: as
to the barrel that had been wet, I didnot a prehend an danger from that, so I placed it in my
new cave, whichin m fancy I called my tehen; an the rest I hid up and down in holes
men the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In e interval of time while this was doin , I went out once at least every day with my gun,
aswelltodivsrtmselfiastoseeiflcould anathmgfitforfoodandnsnoaraslcould,
to acquaint m with what the island rodn The first time I went out I presently
discovered that there were goats in the islans, which was a t satistacticn to me; at then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. .--that ey were so shy, so subtle, and soThe Life MAdmm quah'm'm Cmae. 3r

swiftoffoohthatitwesthemostdifioultthingin the world to some atthem; buthes not
discouraged st this. not doubting but I ' ht now and thou shoot one. es it soon happened;
terafierlhadfoundtheirhaunts alittls, leidwait in this manner tor them: Iobssrved, if
theysawmeinthsvallsys, tho htheywere uponthe mks.thsywouldrunawa asina
terrible ' ht;butiftheywere eedifiinthevallerandensupontherooh, took
nonotieeo me: ftomwhenoe I oonol ,thatbyt eposifionoftheiropfimthsirsig twas
sodireoteddownwud, that they did not readily see objectsthatwere abovethem: "afterwards

little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell,
thekidstoodstoekstillbyhertillloameandtookherup; andnotonlyso,hutwhenIoarried
the old one with me upon my shoulders. the kid followed me quite tony enclosure, upon which
Ilaiddownths damendtook theiridin myarms,aud carried it ovsr mypols,inhopes to
have bred it up tame, but it would not eat. so I was loroed to kill it and eat It myself; these
two supplied me with M a great while. for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions (my
bread especiallygxas muohespossibl Ieould.

Having now ed. my habitation, found itahsolutely to 'de aphee to make a
firsimmdfnsltoburn;andwhat1didforthat,saalsohow e myoave,andwhat
conveniencesImade,Ishallgiveefullaccountofinitsplace: butImustdrstgivesomslittls
Mgount of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which it may well be supposed were not
a ew.

Ihadadismel prospect of my oondition; torus Iwas not castaway upon thatislandwit'h.
out being driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of our imam voyage,
anda way,viz.somehundredsof esoutofthe ordinaryeourseofthstradeofman-
kind, had treason to consideritas e ' 'on of Heaven. thatin this desolateplaoe.
audinthis humannsr,Ishouldsndmylife. The tearswould runplentifullrdown my
face when I made these refleoho' ns, and sometimes' I would s with m wthro-
videnoe should thus oompletely ruin His creatures, and render in so absolute y misera le. so
Fithmhelfi abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to bethanflul

on a e.

But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts, and-to reprove me;
andporfioularlyoneday,walkingwithmy inmyhudbythosa-sidaIwesverypsnsive
upon the subset of my present condition, w enrseson as it were expostnlntedmth me the other
way, thus: ell, on are in adesolate eondifion,itistrue; bu'tvfiny remember,wheroare the
restofyouP Di notyoueomeelevenofyouinto theboatP y
the not saved and you 1m? Whywere you singled out? Isithettertobehereorfhere?

thenI intedto theses Allevilsors'w be eonsidersdwith thegood that is in than,
and withw worse attends them.

Thsnitocounedtomsagaimhowwell stsfurnished for mymhsistenmandwhat would
have been myoess ifithad not hop ed,whichwas a hundred themndbomthatths
shrpfloabdfiomthsplaeawhmshsg'eszstruck, andwas drivensoneertheshorethatI had.
turret? get all thessthingsont of her: whstwouldhavebeen myoese ifiIhadbeentohsve
lived in the condition in whiohIatfirstmsonshomwithont necessaries of life orneees-
sanes to supply and. rooure them? Particularly, said I aloud (tho it from). what
should Ihnve done wi at a , without ammunition, without an to anything,
ortoworkwith;withontelo beddin,atent,oranymsnner oov ' :andthatnow
Iliadallthesetossufioientqusntitymndwasinafairwuytoprovidem mnohaman-
ner. as folive without my sun when my ammunition was spent; so that I a tolerable view
ofnbmshng,withentanywant.sslengasllived; forIeonsideredhvmths beginninghowI
fizzlflpronde for the aqoidenu that might happen and for the time thatwns to come, even

'3'"?
IoonfossIhsdnotenterteinedanynotionof mymmnnifionbdngduhoyedatmbhstl

mzipoyderbeingblmuphy ' htning,andthismsdethethoughts ofitsosurprising'I

32 ' T he Life and Admmrar of Robinson Crusoe.

And now being aboutto enter into a melanchol relation of a scene of silent life. such perhaps
as was never heard of in the world before, I s take it from its hfiinning, and continue it in
its order. It was, lg: account, the 30th of September, when, in a manner as above said, I
first set foot upon ' rrid island, when the sun bein , to us, in its autumnal equinox, was
almost just over my head; for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9
demo and 22 minutes north of the line. . .

r I had been there about ten or twelve da it came into m th hts. that I should
lose in reckoning of time for want of books, an pen and ink, an shoud even forget the
Sabbat days from the working days: but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large

at in capital letters, and making it into a tcross, I set it up on the shore w ere I first
Ended, viz. " I came on shore here on the h Sept. 165 ." Upon the sides of this square
post. I cut eve da a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the
rest, and every rot y of the month as long again as that long one: and thus I kept my calen-
dar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe, that among' the man things which I brought out of
the ship in the several vo ages, which. as above mentioned, made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not all see useful to me, which I omitted setting down before; as in
particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and car
penter's keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, rspec-
tives. charts. and books of navigation; all which I huddled together, whetherI mig t want
them or no: also, I found three very good bibles which came to me in my oargo from Eng-
land, and which I had packed up monfismy things; some Portuguese boo 's also, and among
them two or three popiah prayer-boo , and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say something in its place; for I carried
both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he Jumped out of the ship of himself, and
swam on shore to me the dsyafter I went on shore with myfirst cargo,andwas a trusty
servant to me many years; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, or any compau that he
could make up to me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he could not As I
oburved before. I found figs, ink. and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall
show, that while my ink , I kept things very exact ;' but after that was gone, I could not;
for I could not make any ink, by any means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that Iwanted many things, notwithstanding all that I had amassed
together; and of these this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-are, and shovel, to di or remove
tdl'iiefimrg; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, soon learned to want that wi out much

This went of tools made every work I did go on heavily. and it was near a whole year before
I had entirel finished in little pale or surrounded habitation: the piles or stakes, which were
as heavy as. could well ' were along time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more
by farin bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and brin ' home
oneof those ste,and a third do in driving it into the ground; forwhichpnrpoeeIiota '
heavy icce 0 wood at first. but at set bethought myself of one of the iron crows, which 0 -
ever]; iough I found it, yet it made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious
WOI' .

. But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had to do, seeing I had
time enough to do it in, nor had I any other employment if that had been over. at least, that I
could foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more or less every day.

I now to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstance I was reduced to, and
Idrewup stateofrnyafl'airsinwri' ;notsomuchtoleavethemtoan thatwsreto
come after me, for I was like to have bu few heirs. as to deliver my thong ts from dail
porin upon them, and afllictinlg my mind; and as my reason began now to master my u -
en_c , togantocomfortm so eswell as I could,andtosetthegood ' theevil. tI
mig t have something to ' ' ish my case from worse; and I are it very impartially
like debtor and creditor, the co orts I enjoyed against the miseries I sulfered, thus:
nvm. soon.

I am cast upon a horn'ble desolate island. But I am alive, and not drowned, as all my
void of all hope of recovery. shi 's company was.

I am singled out and separated, as it were, at I am singled out too from all the ship's
from all the world, to be miserable. crew to be spared from death; and He that

miraculously saved me from death can de-
liver me from this condition.

I am divided from mankind. a solitaire, But I am not starved and perishing on

one banished from human society. a barren place, afiording no sustenance. '

Ihave not clothestecover me. But I am in a hot climate where if I
had clothes I could hardly wear them.

I am without any defence or means to But I am cast on an island, where I see

resist any violence ofman or beast. no wild beasts to hurt me, as I saw on the
. coast of Africa; and what if I had been
shi wrecked there?

I have no soul to speak to, or relieve me. at God wonderfall sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, t I have tten out
so many neceuarythings aswill ei er supale
my wants, or enable me to supply my
even as long as I live.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was scarce any condition in
the world so miserable, but there was somethin negative or something tpositive to be thankful
for in it; and let this stand as a direction m the experienw of e mod miserable of
all conditions in this world, that we may always find in it something to comfort ourselves from,
and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit side of the account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition. and 'vecu over looking out
to sea, to see if I could spy| a ship; I say, 'ving over these things, began to apply myself
towcommodatemywayo " ,audto ethingsaseasytomeaslcould.

I have already described my ha itation. which was a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded
with a strun pale of posts and cables, but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a
kind of w up against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside, and after some time, I
think it wasayearand a half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or
covemd it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I
found at some times of the yen very violent.

I have already observed how I bro ht all my goods into this pale, and into the cave which
I' had made behind me : but I must 0 rve too that at first this was a confused heap of
Which as theylay innoorder,sotheytoolrupallmy healhaduo mom toturnm ; so
I set In if to enlarge my cave and works farther in the earth; for it was a loose sandy
rock, w 'oh yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it; and so when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the ri ht hand into the rock; and then turning
to the right again, worked quite out and made me a r to come out. on the outside of my pole
or fortification

Thisgave me not onlyegress and regress." it wers,abaok wayto my tent and tomy
store-house, but gave me room to stew my .

Andnowlbegnntoapplym tom ssuchneceesarythin asIfoundImostwnnted,
as Moularlyaohairandats ls, for withouttheeelwasnota leto euoythefew comforts
Ihnd in theworld; I could not write or eat, or do several things wi so muohplessuro
without a table.

PS195??th woe-Ill" and hersbI must need; observe, that magma" is the sums" and

0 e we ematics, so statin an uaring eve ' reason, an mahng'

the most rational judgment of things, Every :an may befin fime master of every mechanic

art. .I had never handled a tool in In life, and yet in time by labour, application, and

communal found atlastthatlwan nothing but I could have made it, especiallyi! I
l c
had had tools, however I made abundance of things, even without tools, and some with
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which, perhe , were never made that way before,
and that with' infinite labour; for esainple,if I wen a board, I had no other way but!>>
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it'flat on either side with m are, till
Ihadbrou htittobeasthinasa plank, and then dub it smooth with my adu. t istrue,
by this met od I could make but one board out of a whole tree, but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour which it
took me to make a plank or board: but my time or labour was little worth, and so it was
as well employed one way as another. .

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above, in the first place, and this I
did out of the short pieces of boards which I brought on my raft from the s ' : but when I
had wrought out some boards, as above, I made large shelves, of the breadth o a foot and a
half one over another, all along one side of my cave, to la all my tools, nails, and iron-
work, and in a word, to separate every thin at large in t eir places, that I might come
easily at them; I knocked pieces into t io will of the rock to hang my guns and all things
that would hang up.

So that had m care been tobc seen, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary
thin : and I be every thing so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to .
see a my goods in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's employment; for. indeed. at
first I was in too much hurry; and not only hurry as to labour, but in too much discom urc
of mind, and my journal would have been full of many dull things. For example, must
have said thus r--Scpt. the 30th. after I ot to shore, and had esca d drowning, instead of
being thankful to God for my deliverance, win first vomited with a great quanti of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, an recovering myself a, little, 1 ran a at the
shore, wrin ' g my hands, and beating m head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and
crying out, was undone, undone; till. fired and faint, I was forced to he down on the ground
to repose, but dnrst not sleep for fear of being devoured.

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship. and got all that I could out
of her, yet I could not iorbear gettin up to the top of a little mountain, and looking outta
sea in hopes of seeing a. ship; then ncy at a vast distance I spied a sail; please myself
with the ope: of it; and then, otter looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and
Sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But hevin gotten over these things in some measure, and having settled my household-
stufi and bu itation, made me a table and a. chair, and all as handsome about me as I could,
I began to keep my journal, of which I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told '
i111 theze particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for having no more ink, 1 was forced to
cave i o . .

TEE JOURNAL.

Sept. 30, 1659.

I, ma miserable Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the oiling,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I called the Island of Despair, all the
rest of the ship's compan being drowned, and myself almost dead.

All the rest of that y I spent in ufllictiug myself, at the dismal circumstances I was
brought to, viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to fly to, and in despair
of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either that I should bedevonred by wild beasts,
murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the a roach of night I slept
in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained night.

October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the shiphad floated with the high
tide, and was driven on shore again much nearer the island, whio as it was some comfort
on one hand, for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated,
I might get on board, and get some food or necessaries out of her for my relief; so, on the
other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who I imagined if we had all
stayed on board might have saved the ship, or at least that they would not have been all
drowned, as the were; and. that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have built
IIIS e bzat en: mi 121111128 dig the shi to havemfcarn'edthus moms bother of the world.
spen grea ' yin erin m on eee ' : ntet h,seein the
ship almost dry, I went upon thePesrdhd asgnedr as I could. en than swamengiti boardgthis
da also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.
m the let of October to the 24th. All these days entirely spent in making several
gages to get all I could out of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide of flood. upon
ts. Mu rain also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems,
this was the rainy season. -

Oct. 20. I oversetm raft, and all the goods I had got upon it; but being in shod water,
and the things ' c iefly hea , I recovered many of them when the tide was out.

Oct. 25. It rain all iii ht an all day. with some flats of wind, during which time the ship
broke in pieces. the wind wing e little harder than fore, and was no more to be seen, erce t
the wreck of her. and that only at low water. I spent this day in covering and. securing e
goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a place to fix my habitation,
greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in the night. either from wild beasts or
men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a semi~eircle
for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with a work, well, or fortification made of
double piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked ve hard in chugging all my goods to my new habita-
tion, though some part of the time it rain ex '

The Shit, in the morning, I went out into the island with in gun, to see for some food, and
discover the country; when I killed a shegoat. and her kid to owed me home; which I after-
wards killed also, because it would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the first night, making it as
large as I could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon. _

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards. and the ieoes of timber which made my rafts. and

- with them formed a fence round me, a little wi ' the place I had marked out for my

fortification.

Nov. 3. I went out with in gun, and killed two {owls like ducks, which were very good food.
In the afternoon went to wor to make me a table. ' ' _

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of go out wrth my gun, time of
sleep, and time of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out wi my gun for two or three
hours, if it did not rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven o clock, then ate what
I had. to live on, and from twelve to two I lay down. to sleep, the weather being excessive
hot, and then in the evening to work 3111' flie working part of this day, and or the next.
were wholly employed in making my Is, for I was yet but a very sorry workmen. though
time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any
one else.

Nov. 5. This de went abrofi with my and m dog. and killed a wild eat. her skin pretty
soft, but her fleshy for nothing: everyggeature killed I took of _the skins and reserved
them. Coming by the sea-shore I saw many sorts of sea-(owls, which I did not un erstand;
but was surprised and almost frightened with two or three seals. which, while I was gazing at,
not well knowing what they were. got into the sea, and escaped me for that time. .

Noe. 6. After my morning walk. I went to work with in table again, and finished it, though
not to my liking. nor was it long before I learned to men it.

Nov. 7. Now it began to he settled fairweather. The 7th,8th_, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th
(for the 11th was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a chair, end.with much ado_ brought
it too tolerable shape, but never to please me; and even in flie making I pulled it in mass
several times. Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for omitting my mark for them on
my post, I forgot which was which. _ _

Aron. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed mezexeeedingly, and cooled the earth, but it was

0
accompanied with terrible thunder and li htning, which frightened ine dredtully for fear of my
powder: as soon as it was over I resolv to separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I s at in making little square chests or boxes, which
might hold about a pound, or two poun at most. of powder; and so putting the powder in,
I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one not or as possible. On one of these three
da s I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I know not what to call it.

no. 17. This day I began to di behind my tent into the rock, to make room for my fiarther
oonvenieuoy. Note, three things wanted exceedingly for this work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel,
and a wheel-barrow or basket, so I desisted from my work, and began to consider how to supply
that want, and make me some tools: as for a pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enou h, though hear ; but the next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely
possum: indeed I co d do nothing efi'eetually without it; but what kind of one to make

cw no .

Nov. 18. The next day in searching the woods I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which
in the Brazils they call the Iron Tree, for its ex ' hardness; of this. with great labour and
almost spolilling my are, I cut a piece, and brought it ome too with difficulty enough, for it was
exceeding envy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, made me a long while upon
this machine; for I worked it eEectuall by little and little into the form of a shovel or spade.
the handle exactly shaped like ours in ngland, on] that the bro" part he. ' no iron shod
n n it at bottom, it would not last me so long; owever it served well enoug for the uses
w 'ch I had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion,
or so long a making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a. wheel-barrow: a basket I could not make
by any means, having no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker were, at least
none et found out; and, as to a w eelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but
that had no notion of, neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no possible way
to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axisof the wheelie run in, so I gave it over;
and so for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a had
which the labourers carry mortar in, wnen they serve the bricklayers.

This was not so dificult to me as the making the shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and
the attem t which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me u no less than four days.
I mean a ways excepting my morning walk with my gun, which seldom failed; and very
seldom failed also bringing home something to eat. -

Nov. 23. If other work having now stood still, because of my making these tools, when they
were finished went on, and working every day, as in strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen
(is s entirely in widening and deepening my cave, t at it might hold my goods commodionsly.

ote, During all this time. I worked to make this room or cave spacious enough to accom-
modate me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a. dining-room, and a cellar; as for m
lodging, I kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet season of the year it rained so hard
that I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards tacover all my place within my
pale with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock. and load them with flags
and large leaves of trees like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I
had made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side, so much
that in short it frightened me, and not without reason too; for if I had beenunder it I had
never wanted a grave- ' er: upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do over again;
for I had the loose eart to carry out, and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling
to mp up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.

. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and t two shores or me itched
upright to the top, with two pieces of boards across over post; this I fiuis t e next
day; and setting more posts up with boards. in abouts week more I had the roof secured; and
the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to part of my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed shelves. and. hooked up nails on the
m'th' t3 hang every thing' up that could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
iv; in core.

Dec. 20. Now I carried eve hing into the cave, and began to furnish m house, and set up
some pieces of boards, like a resser, to order my victuuls upon; but has begun to be very
source with me: also I made me another table.

Dec. 24-. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.

Dec. 25. Rain all day.

Dec. 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and pleasanter.

Dec. 27. Killed a oung goat. and lanied another, so that I caught it, and led it home in a
string; when I it home I bound and sglintered up its 1 . which was broke. N.B.--l
took such care of it that it lived, and the eg grow well, an as strong as ever; but by
nursing it so longiit grew tame, and fed upon the lime green at my door, and would not go
away : this was e first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures,
that I might have food when my powder and shot was all spent.

Dec. 28, 29. 30. Great heats an no breeze; so that there was no stirrin abroad, except in
the evening for food : this time I spent in putting all my things in order wi ' doors.

January 1. Very hot still, but 1 went abroad early and late with my gun, and is still in the
middle of the day. This evening, going further into the valleys, which lay town the centre
of the island, I found there was lenty of goats, though exceedingoehy and hard to come at;
however I resolved to try if I eoul not bring my dog to hunt them wn.

Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my d . and set him upon the goats; but
I was mistaken, for ey all faced about uponthe dog; and e knew his danger toowell, for he
"0;" n; tIco 13$" fliem' all h' b be' still 'eal i being attacked b

an.. my enceorw ;wie, mg ouso m ysoms-
body. I resolved to make very thick and strong. J y .
N .B. This well being described before, I purposely omit what was said in the Journal; it is
suflicient to observe, that I was no less time than from the 8rd of January to the 14th
of April, working, finishing, and perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about
24- ivlaxds in length, bein a half circle from one place in e rock to another place about
eig t yards from it, the 00: of the cave being in the centre behind' it.
All this time I worked vs hard, the reins hin ering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks
together; but I thought I s ould never be perfectly secure until this wall was finished; and
it is scarcely credible what inexpressible labour everythin was done with, especiallythe hriugm
piles out of the woods, and driv'ing them into the groun , for I made them much bigger than
need to have done. _

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced with a turf-wall raised up close
to it. I persuaded myself that if any people were to come on shore there, thewould not per-
ceive anything like a habitation: and it was very well I did so, asmay be 0 rved hereafter
upon a very remarkable occasion. , '

During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game every day, when the rain admtted
me, and mode uent discoveries in these walks of somethin or other to my edvau ;
particularly 1 icon a kind of wild pigeons, who built not new pigeons,in a tree, but ra or
as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, [endeavoured to
breed them up tame, and did so; but when the grow older they flew away, which perhaps was
at first for want of feeding them. for I had no ring to give them ; however I frequently found
their nests, and ugot their young ones, which were vorylgood meet. . .

and now, in e managing my household ufiuirs, found myself wanting in many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed, as to some of them, it
was. for instance, I could never me. e a one]: to be hooped: I had a small runlet or two, as
I observed before, but I could neverarrive to the capacity of making one by them, though I s t
many weeks about it; I could neither put in the heads, or joint the stoves so true to one
as to make them hold water, so I gave that also over.

In the nextplaoe, I was ate. great loss for candle; so that as soon as ever it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of bees-wax with which I made candles in m African adventure, but I had none of that now.
the only remedy I had. was. that when I had ' ed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a little
dish made of c a ,which I baked in the sun. to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made
me a lamp. an this gave rue light. though not a clear steady li ht like a candle In the
middle of all my labours it happened. that mmmafling m thinns, found a little bag, which,
as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the To ing of poultry--not for this voyage.
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon; what little remainder of corn had
been in the bag, was all devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and
dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other use, I think it was to put powder in.
when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shook the hnsks of corn out of
it on one side of my fortification under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that I throw this stuff away,
taking no notice of anything, and not so much as remembering that I had thrown anything
there; when about a month after. or thereabonts, I saw some few stalks of something green
shooting out of the nnd. which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I was
surprised and perfect y astonished, when after a ittlo longer time I saw about ten or twelve
ears come out, which were perfect green barley of the same kind as our European, nay, as
our English barley.

It is im ssible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts on this occasion;
I had hit crto acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed I had we tow notions of
religion in my head, or had entertained any sense of an 'thing that had beta en me, otherwise
than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases G ; without so much as inquiring into
the end of Providence in these things, or His order in governing events in the world; but
after I saw barle grow there. in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I "new not how it came there. it startled me strangely; and I be to
suggest, that God had miraculously caused this grain to grow without any help of so sewn,
on that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild miserable lace.

This touched my heart a little, and brou ht tears out of my eyes, and) I began to bless
myself, that such a prodigy of nature shou (1 ha pen upon my account; and this was the
mom strange to me, because I saw near it still, along by the side of the rock. some other
struggling stalks. which proved tobe stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it

w in Africa, when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my support, but not
doubting but that there was more in the place. I went all over that part of the island, where
I had been before, peeping in every corner and under every rock to see for more of it, but I
could not find any; at last it occurred to my thought. that I had shook abag of chickens'
meat out in that place, and then the wonder began to cease; and I must confess, in religious
thankfulness to God's providence. began to abate too, upon discovering that al this was
nothing but what was common; though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen a providence as it it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of Providence
as to me, that should order or appoint ten or twelve grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when
the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from heaven: as also, that I
should throw it out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it
sprang up immediately; whereas if I had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure. in their season, which was about
the end of J une, and laying up every corn, resolved to sow them all in, hopin in time to
have some quantity snflicieut to supply me with bread: but it was not ti 1 the fonrt year that
I could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall
say afterwards in its order: for I lost all that I sowed the first season. by not observing the
proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least
not as it would have done: of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved
with the same care, and whose use was of the same kind or to the same pu ose, viz. to make
me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking, t ough I did that
also after some time. But to return to my journal.

I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get my wall done; and the 14th of
April I closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall by a. ladder,
that there might be no sign in the outside of my habitation. _

April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with the ladder to the top, and then pulled it
nil)I after me, and let it down on the inside: this was a coinalete enclosure to me; for within
1 adaiitliom enough, and nothing could come at me from wi out, unless it could first mount
my w .

The very next day afier this wall was finished, I had almost had all my labour overthrown
at once, and myself killed; the case was thus: As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my
tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadful
surprising thing indeed; for on a sudden I found the earth come crumbling down from the
roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill, over in head, and two of the posts I had_set up
in the cave cracked in a fri htful manner: I was eartily scared, but thought nothing of
what was really the cause, on thinkin that the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it
had done before; and for fear I should ie buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which
I e: ted might roll down upon me: I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground,
but plainl saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook thrcetimes
at about cig t minutes distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be sup ed to have stood on the earth; and a test piece of the top of a
rock, which stood about alf a mile from me next the sea, fell own with such a terrible
noise as I never heard in all my life : I perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion
by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like, or discoursed with any
one that had, that I was like one dead or stupified; and the motion of the earth made in
stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the
awoke me, as it were, and rousing me from the milled condition I was in, filled me
with horror, and I thought of nothing then but the ' falling upon my tent, and all in
gouschold goods, and burying all at once; and this sunk my very soul within me a second

me.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began to take courage.
and yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive.
but sat still u n the ground, greatly cost down and disoonsolate, not knowing what to do:
all this while had not the least serious religious thought, nothing but the common, "Lord,
have mercy upon me :" and when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it wouldrain; soon afier
that the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most
hurricane: the sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth, the shore was
covered with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm
it was; and this held about three hours. and then began to abate, and in two hours more it was
stark calm, and to rain very hard. '
_ All this while set upon the ground, ve much terrified and dejected, when on a sudden
it came into my thoughts, that these winds on rain being the consegueneee of the earthquake,
the earth nake itself was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave again: with
this than t my spirits began to revive, and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in
and sat. own in in tent, but the rain was so violent. that my tent was resdytobe beaten
down with it; and was forced to go into my cave. though very much afraid and uneasy,
for fear it should {all on my head.

_ This yiolent rain forced me to a now work, viz. to cut a hole through my new fortification
like a sink to let water go out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had been in
my cave some time,and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I begauto be
more com ; and now, to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went
to my lit e store, and took a sma sup of rum, which, however, I did then, and always, very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that was no.

It continued rainin all that night, and great part the next da , so that I could not stir
abroad; but my min being more composed, I to think of what had best do, concluding
that if the island was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a cave.
but I must consider of building me some little hut in an open place, whic I might surround
with a. wall as I had done here, and so make in self secure rom wild beasts or men: but con-
cluded if I ate ed where I was, I should certui y, one time or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the place where it stood, which was
just under the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would cer-
tainly fall ii n my tent: and I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in
contriving w era and how to remove my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me that Inever sle t in quiet: and yet the
ap rehension of lyin abroad, without any fence, was almost equ to it; but still, when I
loo ed about and sawIiow everything was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how
safe from danger, it made me very leth to remove.

In the meantime it occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do
this, and that I must be contented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed a camp
for myself, and. had secured it so as to remove to it; so with this resolution I composed myself
for a time, and resolved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles
and cables, kc" in acircle as before; and set my tent n in it when it was finished, but that
glwould venture to stay where I was till it was finish and fit to remove to. This was the

at

A ril 22. The next morning I began to consider of means to put this resolve in execution.
but was at a great loss about my tools; I had three large axes and abundance of hatehets
(for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians), but with much chop ing and cuttin
knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull, and thou h I h a grindstone,
could not turn it and grind my tools too: this cost me as much thong t as a statesman would
have bestowed upon a d point of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At
length I contrived a. w eel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty. Note, I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to take
notice how it was, done. though since, I have observed it is very common there; besides that,
my pggndstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's work tobring it
to ection. >

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools, my machine for
turning m ' dstone performing very well.

April . avinlg perceived my bread had been low a great while, now I took a survey of it,
and reduced in sel to one biscuit cake a day, which made my heartv heavy.

May 1. In e morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide being ow, I saw something lie
on the shore bi ger than ordinary. and it looked like a cask. When I came to it. I found a
small barrel, an two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the
late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of
the water than it used to do: I examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found
it was a barrel of gun wder, but it had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a
stone; however. 1 re ed it farther on shore for the present, and went on upon the sands as
near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed: the forecastle which lay before
buried in sand, was heaved up as least six foot; and the stern, which was broken to pieces
and rtsd from the rest by the force of the sea. soon alter I had left rummaging her, was
toss , as it were, up, and cast on one side. and the send wasthrown so high on that side
next licr stern, that whereas there was a great place of water before, so that I could not come
within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite a to her

'when the tide was out. I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it must done
by the earthquake: and as bgfih violence the shi was more broken open than formerly, so
many things came daily on s ore, which the sea h loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to the land.

This whol y diverted my thoughts from the den? of removing my habitation; and I busied
myself mightily that day especially, in searching w ether I coal make any way into the ship:
but I found nothing was to be expected of that kind. for that all the inside of the ship was
choked up with sand: however, as I had learnt not to despair of anything, I resolved to all
eve ing to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding, that everything I could get from or
won d be of some use or other to me.

May 8. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through, which I thought held
some of the upper part or outer-deck together; and when I had cut it through. I cleared away
the send as well as I co d from the side which lay highest; bat the tide coming in, I was
obliged to 've over for that time.

May 4. went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat of, till I was w of
my sport; when just going to leave elf, I caught a yonn dolphin. I had made a on
line of some rope yarn, but I had no books, yet I frequent y caught fish enough, as muc
as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.

May 5. Worked on the wreck, out another beam asunder, and brought three great fir
planks of! from the decks. which I tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide
of flood came on.

May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-
work; worked very hard, and came home ve much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.

May 7. Went to the wreck againubut wi an intent not to work. but found the weight of
the wreck had broken itself down, the beams being cut, that several pieces of the ship seemed
to lie loose : and the inside of the hole lay so open, that I could see into it, but almost full of
water and sand.

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now
quite clear of the water or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on shore also
with the tide: I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day.

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the body of the wreck, and
felt several cash, and loosened them with the crew, but could not break them up; I felt also
the roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove. '

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14-. Went every day to the wreck, and got a great many pieces of
timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three hundred weight of iron.

May 15. I can-led two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a piece oi! the roll of lead, by
placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and
a half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.

M'ay 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared more broken by the force
of the water: but I ate. ed so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented
me go' to the wreck day. ' _

May 7. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great distance, near two miles
0E me, but resolved to see what they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too
heavy for me to bring away. .

Ma 24. Every dayto this day I worked on the wreck, and with hard labour I loosened

some hinge so much with the crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and
two of the seamen's chests, but the wind blowin from the shore, nothing came to land that day
but to: of cigar, and a hogshead, which hag some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and.
sea il it.
Icontinhlzl this work every day to the 15th of J nae, except the time necessary to get food,
which I always appointed, during this {art of my em loyment, to be when the tide was up,
thatImightbereadywhen it wasehedout; an I) .thistiniel hedgottimber,and
plank, and non-work enough to have built a good boat, if had known how; and also, 1 got at
several times, and in several 'eces, near 100 w ' ht of the sheet-lead. '

June 16. Going down to ease side, I to a large tortoise or turtle,thiswas thefint

 

\ ,

"fl:
I had seen, which it seems was only my misfortune. not any defect of the lace, or scarcity, for
had I happened to be on the other side of the island, I might have hundreds of them
every day. as I found afterwards. but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I foun in her threecsoore eggs. and her flesh was
to me at that time the most savon and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having had no
flesh, but of goats and fowls, since landed in this horrid place.

June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought at this time the rain felt cold,
and I was something chill , which I knew was not usual in that latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and s ivering, as if the weather had been cold.

June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my head and. feverish.

June 21. Very ill, frightened almost to death with the apprehensions of my and condition,
to be sick and no help. Frayed to God for the first time since the storm of Hull, but scarce
knew what I said, or why, my thoughts bein all confused

June 22. A little better, but under dreadf apprehensions of sickness. ,

June 23. Very had again, cold and shivering, and then a violent head-ache.

June '34-. Much better.

nfJune 25. An ngne very violent, the fit held me seven hours, cold lit and hot, with faint sweats
tor it.

June 26. Better; and having no vietuals to eat, took my gun but found myself very weak,
however I killed a she-goat, and with much dificulty tit home, and broiled some of it, and
ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth? but had no t.

June 27. The ague again so violent, thatIlav a~bed all day, an neither ate or drank. I
was ready to 'sh for thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or to get in self
any waterto rink: prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and, when I was not, was
so ignorant that Iknew not what to so ; only I lay' and cried, " Lord, look upon me; Lord
pity me; Lord, have mercy upon me." suppose I did nothing else for two or three hours till
the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. When I awoke, I found
myself much refreshed, but weak and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water in my
w ole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In this second
sleep I had this terrible dream :--

I thought that I was sittin on the ground on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the
storm blew after the earth no 1, and that I saw a man descend from a. great black cloud, in a.
bright flame of fire, and a 'ght upon the ground. He was all over as bright as a. flame, so
that I could but 'ust bear to 100 - towards him. His countenance was most inexpressibly
dreadful; impossib e for words to describe. When he stepped upon the ground with his feet;
thought the earth trembled 'ust as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to
my apprehension as if it h been filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved forward towards me, with a long
spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he eameto a rising ground. at some distance.
he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it; all
that I can say I understood was this. " Seein all these ings have not brought thee to repen-
tance, now thou shalt die;" at which words thought he lifted up the spear that was in his
hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should be able to describe the
horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I mean diet, even while it was a dream, I even
dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awoke and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received by the ood instruction of my father
was then worn out by an uninterru ted series, for ei ht years, 0 sea-farin wickedness, and a
constant conversation with nothin at such as were, ' e myself, wicked an profane to the last
degree. I do not remember that I ad inall that time one thought that so muc as tended either
to looking 11ng towards God, or inwards towards a. reflection upon my own ways; but a
certain stup' 'ty of soul, without desire of good or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed
me, and I was all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common
sailors can be supposed to be. not having the least sense either of the fear of God in danger,
or of thankfnlness to God in deliverances.

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more casil believed when
I shall add that, through all the variety of miseries that had to this day be on me, I never
had so much as one thought of it being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for
my sin, my rebellious behaviour against my father. or mzegressnt sins, which were great; or so
much as a punishment for the general course of my wic life. When I was on the desperate
expedition on the desert shores of Africa. I never had so much as one th ht of what would
become of me; or one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to esp me from the
danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel saavges:
but I was merely thoughtless of a. God, or a Providence; acted lilre a mere brute, from the prin-
ci lee of Nature, and by the dictates of common sense only, and Indeed hardly that.

Vhen I was delivered, and tslren up at sea the Portugal captain, well used, and dealt
justly and houourably with, as well as charitab y, I had not the least thankfulness on m
thoughts: when again I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of brings? on this island,
was as far from remorse, or looking on it as n jufiment; I only said to my oflen, thathas
an unfortunate dogE and born to be always miss Is.

It is true, when on shore first here, and found all my ship's crew drowned, and m
spared, I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy. and some transports of soul, which, the
grace of God assisted, might have come up to true thankfulnoss; but it ended where it hm
m a. more common flight of joy, or, as I may say, ' glluad I was alive, without the
reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of the hen w 'oh had preserved ms, and had

sin led me out to be reserved, when all the rest were destroyed; orau inquiry why Providence
h been thus mercilgrl to me; even just the sums common sort of )0 which seamen generally
.have, afler they h islot safe on shore from a shipwreck, which they all in the next howl

ave
of unch,andforgst, mostas soonasitisover; andallthsrestofmylifewaslikeit.
ven when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of my condition; how I

was cast on this dreadful place, out o! the reach of human kind, out of allhope of relief, or
prospect of redemption; as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve
and perish for hunger, all the sense of my adirction wore OE, and I to be very easy,
gamed myself to the works proper for my goreservation and sutplpli, and was r enough from being

icted at my condition, as a Judgment m heaven. or as e and of God against me : these
were thoughts which v seldom entered into my head.

The growing up of a corn, as is hinted in my journal. had at first some little influence
upon me, and began to afi'ect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had something
miraculous in it; but as soon as ever that part of thought was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it wore 03 also, as I have noted already.

.Even the earthquake, th h nothing could be more terrible in its nature. or more immo-
dlately directing to the invieib e power, which alone directs such things; yet no sooner was the
first fright over, but the impression it had made went of also; I had no more sense of God.
or fire udgmonts, much less of the present adiiction of my circumstances being from Eis hand,
than it had been in the most rosperous condition of life. .

But now, when I began to sick, and a leisurely view of the miseries of death came to
place itself before me; when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper,
and nature was exhausted with t e violence of the fever; conscience, thnthad slept so long,
began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my life, in which I had so evidently,
by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice of God to y me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. .

_These reflections oppressed me from the second or third day of my distem r. and in the

olonce. as well of the fever as of the drewful reproaches of my conscience. exto some words
from me, like {trying to God, though I cannot say the were either a prayer attended with
desires, or with open; it. was rather the voice of more gight and distress : my thoughm were
col-'sf'PptLthe.convictionsgreatuponin mind, and the horror-of dying in such a miserable
condition. raised vapours into my with the mere apprehensions; and, in these hurries of

' we. '5'-
m soul, I know not what my tongue might cigaress. But it was rather exclamation; such as,
" rd! what a miserable creature am I ! If should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of
help, and what will become of me P " Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no
more for a good while. .

In this interval the good advice of my father came to in mind, and presentl his prediction,
which I mentioned in the be ' ing of this story: viz. t at if I did take t is foolish step.
God would not bless me, and F321;] have leisure hereafter to reflect upon havin neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. Now, said I alou , my dear
father's words are come to pass: God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or
hear me ; I rejected the voice of Prowdence. which had mercian put me in a posture or
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I won d neither see it In self, nor
learn to know the bleasin of it from my parents; I left them to mourn over my ally, and
now I am left to mourn un er the consequences of it; I refused their help and assistance, who
would have lifted me into the world, and would have made everything easy to me; and now
I have dificulties to stru 1e with. too great for even nature itself to sup rt, and no assistanw.
no help, no comfort, no edgice. ThenI cried out, " Lord,be my help, for em ingreat distress 1"
"This'w" :11" first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made for many years. But I return

my Journ .

June 28. Havin been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had, and the fit being entire]
off, I 3," up; an though the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I conside ,
that e fit of the ague would return again the next daly, and now was my time to get some-
thing to refresh and support myself when I should be i ; and the first thing I did, I filled a
large square case bottle with water. and set it u n my table, in reach of my bed; and to take
of the chill or sguish disposition of the water, put about a quarter of a. pint of rum into it,
and mixed them ther: then I got me a. iece o the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but could eat very 'ttle. I walked about, at was v weak, and, withal, very sad and heavy-
hearled under a sense of my miserable condition, d ing the return of my distemper the next
day: at night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
ate, as we call it, in the s rell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing
to, even, as I could remember, in in whole life.

After I had eaten I tried to w ; but found myself so weak, that I could hardly carry the
gun (for I never went out without that); so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the
ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. As

sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me :

What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is it produced? And
what am I, and all the other creatures. wild and tame, human and brutal; whence are we P

Sure we are all made by some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky;
and who is that P

Then it followed most naturally: it is God that has made it all. Well, but then it came on
strangely; if God has made all these things. He guides and governs them all, and all things
that concern them; for the Being that could make all things, must certainly have power to
guide and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His works. either without His knowledge or
appointment.

And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that I am here. and am in this
dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has appointed all
this to befall me.

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of these conclusions; and therefore it
rested upon me with the ter force, that it must needs be, that God had appointed all this
to befall me; that I was relight to this miserable circumstanceby His direction, He having
3:1; Eels eplower, not of me only, but of everything that happened in the world. Immediately
i n ow ,--

Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be thus used?

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed; and methought
it spoke to me, like a voice : Wretoh! dost thou ask what thou hast done? Look book upon a
dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it thatthou wert
not log a?! eetr'oyed? W'hty wort thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads 9 killed in the fight
when a s 'p was taken b e Sallee man--oi--wat; devoured by the wild beasts on the coast
hiaAhIiod'? 0;, drowned Khalil-E. when all the crew pens" had but thyself? Dost thou ask, What
ve one

Ivmestrnekwiththese reflections as one astonished, andhad notawordtosaymomotto
answerto myself; but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to m retreat, and went up over .
mywall,asrfIhadbeengoingtobed;butmytho htswere Ldnismhd,MIMno
inelinationtoslee;soIsatdowninmyehair,an lihtedmy ,foritbegantobe
dark. Now, as t apprehension of the return of my mper ts ' ed me very much, it
occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take no physio but their tobacco, for almost all
distemper-r; and I had apiece of atolloftobaceoin one ofthe sheets. which was quite cured,
and some also that was green, and not quite cured.

Iweut,directed by Heaven, no doubt! for in this chest I foundaours both for soul and body!
Iopenedthecheshaud found what Ilooked for,viz.thetoboeoo; and asthefewhooks Ihad
saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and which, to this
time, I had. not found leisure. or so much as inclination, to look into; I say I took it out, and
brou ht both that and the tobacco with me to the table.

W usetomakeof thetoheocoIknewnotastomydistsm r, orwhetheritwasgoodfor
it or no: but I tried several experiments with it, as if I ved it should hit one way or
other: I first took a'pieoe of a leaf. and chewed itin my month, which, indeed, at first almost
stupified mfibrain, e tobacco ' green and strong. and that I had not heenmuch used
tort; then took somaund stse itanhonrortwo in somerum,and resolved to take a
doseofitwhenIlaydown; and lastl ,I burnt some upon :1. p2: of coalaaudheldmynose
close over the smoke of it, as long as {could bear it, as well for heat as the virtue of it, and
I held almost to eufiocation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and began to read; but my head was
too much disturbed with the tobweoto hearresding, at least at that time; oily having 0 ned
the bookcasunlly,thefirstwordsthatooourredtomewerethese,"Gall on in the yof
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me."

The words were very apt to in case. and made some impression upon my thoughts at the
time of reading them, though no so much as the did afterwards; for, as for being delivered,
the word had no sound, as I may say,to me; the thingwas so remote,soimpossiblein my
apprehension of thin , that I began to so as the children of Israel did when they were re-
misedilesh toeat," anGodspread a lein the wilderness?"so I begantosey,0anaod
Himself deliver me from this lace? And. as it was not for many years that any hope
appeared, this prevailed very 0 upon in thoughts; but, however, the words made a
very min: ression n n me, and mused upon them very often, It grew now late,and
theto ,esIsai ,dovzedm'yheadsomuohfihatlinelinedtosleep; soIleftmy lamp
bur ' in the cave, lost I shonl want anything in the night. and wentto bed: but before
I lay own,I did what I neverhaddonein all mylife; Ikneeleddowu and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me,that ifI calleduponEim inthe day of trouble. He would deliver me.
After my broken and imperfect rayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the
tobacco, which was so strong rank of the tow, that indeed I could some get it down.
Immediately upon this I went to bed, and I found presently it flew up into my head violently;
but I fell mtg a sound sleep, and woke no more, till the sun it must necessarily be near
three o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this our I ampartly ofthe opinion, that
Isleptalltbenertda andnighhandtillalmoetthreetheda after; foretherwiseIknewuot
how shouldloeea youtofmyreek ' inthe days tbeweek. ssitappeared some

eusafler-I haddone; for-if I had lost it hyerossingandreoressingtbe line, should have
ost more than one day: but certainly I lost adayin myaoeount, sud noverknewwhieh way.

Do that however one way or other, when I woke I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
myspu-rtshvely andohserful. Whenlsot up I mahongerthanlwns edsybefomsnd
my stoth better, for I was hungry, and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but continued
much altered for the better. ' This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with my gun, but did not care to
travel toofar. I killed a seafowl or two, something hire a brand and brought them
home, but was not very forward to eat them, so I ate some more 0 the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed did me good the
day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum, only I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; however, I was not so well the next
do , which was the first of July, as I hoped I should have been, for I had a little spice of the
cofil lit, butit was not much.

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and dosed myself with it at first, and
doubled the quantity which I drank.

July 8. I missed the fit for and all, though 1 did not recover my full stren 'th for some
weeks after. While I was t us gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly; upon the
scri tore, "Iwill deliver thee;" and the un ssi ility of my deliverance lay muc upon my
min , in bar of my ever exgectiu it, but as was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it
occurred to my mind, that so much upon mly deliverance from the main uflliction, that I

' rdod the deliverance had received. and was, as it were, made to ask myself such

uestrons as thaw--Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness? from
t s most distressed condition that could be, and that was so ' htful to me ? And what
notice had I taken of it? find I done my part? God had d 'vered me, but 1 had not
glorified Him; that is to say. I had not owned and been thankful for that as adelivorance;
and how could I expect greater deliverance P

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled down, and gave Godthanks
aloud for my recovery from my sickness.

July 4-. In the morning I took the Bible, and, beginnin at the New Testament, I began
seriously to read it, and imposed u n myself to read aw e every mornin and every night,
not tying myself to the number 0 chamrs, but as lou as my thoughts ould engage me.
It was not long after I set seriously to ' work, but I ound my heart more deeply and sin-
cerely affected with the wickedness of my at life; the impression of my dream revived, and
the words, "All these thin have not rought thee to repentance," ran seriously in my
thoughts. I was earnestly figging of God to give me repentance, when it happened rovi-
dentially the very day that, we 'ug the Sari ture. I came to these words: "He is c ted a
Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance, an to give remission." I threw down the Book, and
with my heart as well as in hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out
aloud. "Jesus, Thou Son of avid, Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance!"

This was the first time that I could say, in the true sense of the words, that I prayed in all
my life; for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the Word of God; and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hope that God would hear me.

New began to construe the words mentioned above--" Call on Me, and Iwill deliver thee "--
in a different sense from what I had ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything
being called deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity I was in; for thou h I was
indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, uud\that in e worst
sense in the world; but now I loaned to take itin another sense. Now I looked back upon
myeiast life with such horror, and my sins ap so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing
of ad, but deliverance from the load of t that bore down all in comfort. As for my
solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be delivered m it, or think of it;
it was all of no consideration in comparison of this : and I add this part here to hint to who-
ever shall read it, that, whenever they come to a true sense of things, they wrll find deliverance
from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction.

But. leaving this part, I return to my journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my way of living, yet much
easier to my mind; and my thoughts being directed by a constant reading the Scripture, and
prayingnto God, to things of a higher nature, I had a deal of comfort within, which till
now I ew nothing of; also, as my health and strengt returned, I beetirred myself to furnish
myself with everythin that I wanted, and make my way of living as regular as I could.

From the 4th of J y to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in walking about with my gun in
myhand,alittleandalittleatatime,ssamanthatwas gathe' uphisstre after afit
of sickness; forit is hardlyto be imagined how low I was, and to w t weakness wasrednced.
The application which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an
ague before; neither can I recommend it to an one to practise b this experiment; and though
it did carry off the fit, yet it rather contribn to weaken me; or I had frequent convulsions
in my nerves and limbs for some time. . _

I learnt from it also this in particular, that hein abroad in the rainy season was the most
pernicious thing to my health that could be, especi y in those rains which came attended with
storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in a dry season was nearly always
accompanied with such storms, so I found this rain was much more dangerous than the ram
which fell in September and October.

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months; all 'bility of deliverance from
this condition seemed to be entire y taken from me, and I firmly lieved that no human shape
had ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured my habitation, as Ithenght, fully to my
mind, I had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see what
other productions I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I to take a more particular survey of the island itself; I
went up the creek first. where, as I ' ted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came
about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher. and that it was no more than a
little brook of runmng water, and very fresh and good; but, this being the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not enough to run in any stream, so as it
could be perceived.

0n the bank of this brook I found many leasant ssvnnnas or meadows, plain, smooth, and
covered with grass; and on the rising parts 0 them next to the higher grounds, where the water,
as it might be supposed, never ov owed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing
to a great and very strong stalk. There were divers other plants, which I had no notion of, or
nnderstandin about, and might perhaps have virtues of their own, which I could not find out

I searched or the cassava root, which the Indians in all that climate make their bread of,
but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not then understand them: I saw
several sngumnu, but wild and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented m with
these discoveries for this time' and came back musing with myself what course I mig t take to
know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover, but could
bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so little observation while I was in the
Brazrls, that I knew little of the plants of the field--at least very little that might serve no to
on purpose now in rn distress.

e next day, the 1 th, I went up the some way again; and, afler ingeomething farther
than I had done the day before, I found the brook an the savannas to <<use, and the
count become more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits, and particularly
I fonn melons upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; _the vines had
spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now rn their pnme, ve ripe
and rich. This was a surprising discovery, an I was exceedingl glad of them, but was
warned by my experience to camaringly of them, remembering that, when I was ashore in
Barbary, the eating of grapes ' ed several of our Englishmen who were slaves these, by
throwing them into fluxes and fevers: but I found an excellent use for these grapes, and that
was to cure or dry them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which
I thou ht ll:lr'lriuld be, as indeed they were, as wholesome, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes

' ht -
mlIspent all that evening there, and went not back to m habitation, which, by the way, was
the first night, as I might say, I had lain fi'om home. In e right I took my first contrivance,
and got up into a tree, where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded upon my dMovery,
travelling near] four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping still due
north, with a ri go of hills on the soot and north side of me.

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the count seemed to descend to the
west; and a little s ring of fresh water, which issued out of the si of the hill by me. ran the
other way--that is, ue east--and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every-
thin being in a constant verdure or flourishrnfi of sp ' , that it looked like a planted rden.

I amended a. little on the side of that de cious va e , surveyin it with a secret ind of
pleasure (though mixed with other afllicting thoughts) to t ' k that ' was all my own, that I
was kingand lord of all this country indefensibly, and had a. right of ssession; and if I could
convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely as any ord o a manor in England. I
saw here abnn ance of cocoartrees, orsn and lemon and citron trees, but all wild, and few
bearing any fruit--at least not then. owever. the green limes that I gathered were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made
it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.

I found new I had business enough to gather and can home; and resolved to lay up a store.
as well (I); grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myse for the wet season, which I knew was
up rose a .

order go do this I gathered a great hea of grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in
another lace, and a t parcel of limes an lemons in another place; and taking a few of
each wit me, I trove led homcward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or seek, or
what I could make, to carry the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three da s in this journey, I came home (so I must now call In
tent and my care); but. before I got t ither, the gr-a were s iled; the richness of the fruit
and the weight of the juice having broken them an bruised em, they were good for little or
nothing. As to the limes. the were good, but I could bring but a. few.

The next da , being the 1' h. I went back, having made two small bags to bring home my
harvest. But was s rised when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine
when I gathered them, found them all sgread abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some
here, some there, and abundance eaten an devoured. By this 1 concluded there were some wild
creatures thereabouts which had done this; but what they were I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up in iron , and no carrying them awn in a
suck, but that one way they would be destroyed, and the ot er way they won] be crush with
their own weight, I took another course; for Igatheredalsrge quantit of the grapes, and hung
them upon the outer branches of the trees, that they mi ht cure and in the sun; and as for
the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I coul well stand on er.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great pleasure on the fruitfulness
of that valley, and the pleasantncss of the situation, the security from storm! on that side of the
water, and the wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was
by far the worst part of the countrv. Upon the whole, I to consider of removin
habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as where now was situated, if possib e, in
that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.

This thou ht run long in my head, and I was exceedingly fond of it for some time, the plea-
santneee of e 31h" temptin me: but when I came to a. nearer view of it, and to consider that
I was now by e sewside, w ere it was at least possible that something might happen to my
advantage, and that the same ill-fate that brought me hither mi ht bring some other uuhapqy
wretches to the some place; and though it was scarcely probube that any such thing won d
ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and woods,in the centre of the island. was to
anticr te my bondage, and to render such an ali'nir not only improbable, but impossible, and
that t erefore I ought not by any means to remove.

However, I was so enamoured of this place that I spent much of my time there for the whole
remarnmg part of the. month of July; and though, n a second thoughts, I resolved as above,
not to remove, get I built a little kind of a bower, an surrounded it at a distance with a strong
fence, being a ouble hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked and filled between with brush-
wood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going over it
with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now I had my country house and my W
house : and this work took me u to the beginning of August.

I had but newl finished my ence, and began to enioy my labour, when the rains cams on,
and made me stic close to my first habitation; for t ough I had made a tent like the other,
wrth a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me
from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the be 'nning of Au t, as I said, I had finished my bower and began to en'oy my-
self. The thi of August I ound the gm I had h up were perfect] dried, on indeed
were excellent good raisins of the sun: so I gun to take em down from t e trees. and it was
very happy that I did so, for the rains which ollowed would have spoiled them, and I had lost
the best rt of my winter food, for I had above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I en them all down, and carried most of them home to my cave, than it began to rain;
and from thence, which was the fourteenth of August, it rained more or less every day till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently that could not stir out of micave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my family. had been concerned
for the loss of one of my cats, w 0 ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead, and I
heard no more tale or tidings of her till. to my astonishment, she came home about the end of
An st with three kittens! This was the more strange to me, because, though I had killed it
wil cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was uite a different kind from our
European cats; yet the oung cats were the same kmd of house- reed like the old one; and both
my cats being females, thought it very strange: but from these three cats I afterwards came
to be so pestered with cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts, and to
drive them from my house as much as ible.

From the fourteenth of August to e twen -si:th, incessant rain, so that I could not stir,
and was now very careful not to be much wet. n this confinement I began to be straitened for
food; but, ventnri out twice, I one day killed a goat; and the last day. which was the twenty-
sirth, found averynfirge tortoise, which was a treat to me; and my food was regulated thus: I
ate a bunchof raisins for my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle. for my-
dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), and two
or three of the tnrtle's eggs for supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked dail two or three hours at
enlarging my cave, and, by degrees, worked it on towards one side till came to the outside of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in
and out this way : but I was not perfectly easy at l ' so open, for, as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure, whereas now I ought I lay exposed; and yet I could
not perceive that there was any living thing to far, the biggest creature that I had seen upon
the Island being a goat.

amber the thirtieth. I was now come to the unhgfipy anniversa of my landing I cast

ui e notches on my post, and found I had been on ore three hun and sixty- ve days.
I ept this day as a. solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious exercise, rostratin myself on
the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to aoknow edging His
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ;
and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even to the going down of the
sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I

n it.

had all this time observed no Sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of religion upon
my mind, I had after some time omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer notch
than ordinary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of the days were; but
now. having cast up the days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh do. for a Sabbath, though I found at the end of my
account I had lost a day or two in my res oning.
' Alittleafterthismyink tofailme,andsoIcontentedmyselftouseitmoregr-
ugly, and to write down only s most remarkable events of my life, without continuing a ' y
memorandum of other things.

a
The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear re lar to me, and I learned to
divide them so as to provide for them accordingly. But I bou t all my experience before I
had it; and this I am going to relate was one of the most ' uraging experiments that
I made at all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which I had.
so surprisingly found ring up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there were about
thirty stalks of rice, an about twenty of buley; and now I thought it a. proper time to sow it
afier the rains, the sun being in its southern position Y=ng from me.

Accordingly Idug up agiccc of ground, as well as could, with my wooden spade, and,
dividing it into two arts, sowed my figrain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thought that I woul not sow it all at rat, because I did not know when was the proper time
for it; 301 sowed about two-thirds of the seeds, leaving about a handful of each. twas a
great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
toanything; for the dry months following, the earth having had no rain after the seed was
sown, it had no moisture to assist its $2th11, and never came up at all, till the wet season had
come again, and then it w as if it been newly sown.

Finding my first se did not grow, which I easily imagined was by the drought I
sought for a moistcr piece of ground to make another trial in; and I dug up a piece of ground
near my new bower, and sowed the rest of in seed in February, a httlebe are the vernal

uiuox; and this, having the rainy months 0 March and Atfiril to water it, sprung up very
p easautl , and 'cldcd :1 ve good crop; but having part of e seed left only, and not daring
to saw that had yet, I ad but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting
to above half a peck of each kind.

But by this experience I was made master of my business, and knew exactly when the
proper season was to saw, and that I might expect two seed-times and two harvests every

ear.

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery, which was of use to me afterwards.
As soon as the rains were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about the month
of November, I made a visit up the coun to m bower, where, though I had not been
some months, yet I found all things just as left em. The circle or double hedge that I
had made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I had cut of of some trees
that grow theroabouts were all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as a willow-
trcc usually shoots the first year after lopping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it
that these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees ow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike as I could. and it is
scarce y credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three tiears; sothat. though the
hedge made a circle of about twent -five yards in diameter, yet e trees--for such I might
3:" call them--soon covered it; an it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the

y season.

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make a hedge like this in a semicircle
round my wall--I mean that of my first dwelling--which I did; and placing the trees or
stakes in a double row, at about eight 'ards' distance from In first fence, they w presently,
and were at first a fine cover to my ha itation, and afterwa served for a once also, as I
shall observe in its order.

I found new that the seasons of the year might generally be divided, not into summer

and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons an the dry seasons, which were generally
1: us :--

Kalf Februa ,
Henri} Rainy, the sun being then on or near the equinox.

June, Dry, the sun being then to the north of the line.
Half August,
Se tember,} Rainy, the sun being then come back.
Half ctoher,
Half October,
November,
December, Dry, the sun being then to the south of the line.
January,
Half February, .

Therein season sometimes held lon or or shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but
this was e general observation I e. After I had found. by experience, the ill-con- ,
sequence of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provision beforehand,
thatI mi htnotbe obligedtogo out; andI sat within doorsasmnchaspossible duringtha
wet men s.

In this time I found much employment (and very suitable also to the time), for I found . ;
greatocoaaiou of manythings whohIhsdnowaytofurnishmyselfwithbntbyhudlabour '
and constant ap lication: particularly I t 'ed many wage to make myself a basket; but all ~
the twigs I coud get for the purpose proved so brit e that they would do nothing. It .. _ -
proved of excellent advan to me now, that, when I was a ho , I used to take great delight -!
in standing at a basket-m er'a in the town where naly father 'ved, to see them make their ,
wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are. veryo eions to help, and a great observer-of.
the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes landing a hand, I had by this means
so full knowledge of the methods of it, that Iwanted nothing but the materials; when it
came into my mind that the twigs of that tree, from whence I cut my flakes that grew, might
possibly be as tough as the sallows and willows and oeiere in England. and I resolved to try.

Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house, as I called it, and, cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could desire; wherou I came
the next time prepared with ahatohet to cut down a quantity, which I soon foun for there
wasagreatplentyof them: theseI setup todrywithiumycircleorhedges; andwhenthey
were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here during the next season I employed
myself inmaking(aswellasI could) a great man baskets,both toearryearth, or to carry
or la up anything as I had occasion; and thong I did not finish them handsomely,
yet made them snfieisntly serviceable for my purpose; and thus a! I took care
never to be without them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; My I made
strongtdeep baskets to place my corn in, instead' of sacks, when I should cometohave any
quanti y o it.

Having missed this dificulty, and ample ed a world of time about it, I bestirred myself to
see, if possible, how to supply two wants. had no vessels to hold anythin that was liquid,
except two rundlets. which were almost full of rum, and some lass bottfee, some .of the
common size, and others which were ease-bottles square, for the ho ' of waters, spirits, &o.
Ihadnotso muchasapot to boilanything imexceptagreatketflew 'chI savedoutof-the
ship. and which was too big for such uses as I desired for it, via, to make broth, and stew a- :1
bit of meet by itself. The second thing I would fain have had was a tobacco-pipe. but it was i
no ssible for me to make one; however, I found a contrivance for that too at last. . -

employed myself in planting my seeondrows of stakes or piles, and inthis wicker-work,
allthe summerordry season, when another business took me up more time than it could
be Imagined I could spare.

I mentioned beiorathatIhadagreatmindtoseethewholeieland, anth I had
travelled up the brook, and so on to where built my bower, and where I _had an opening
quite to themon theothersideot theisland. I nowreeolved to travelth acrosstothe
seashore on thatside: so, taking mygnn and hatchet and m dog, and a larger quantity
of powder and shot than usual. with two biscuit--cakes and agreatbunchof raisins mm
pouch for my store, I began my journey. When I had the vale where my bower ,
unbovalcame within view of the mto the west; and it beingavery clear da ,Ifsirl
deemed land--rwhethu-anislnnd orcontiuentlgeonld not tell--hut it lsy veryhigiextend- ,
ing from the West to the W.S.W. at a very great distance. By my guess it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues 05.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than that Iknew it must
be part of America, and, as I concluded b all my observations, must be near the Sptanieh
dominions, and perhaps was all inhabi by so. as, where, if I should have landed, had
been in a. worse condition than I was now; and ereforo I acquiesced in the dispositions
of Providence, which I u now to own, and to believe, ordered everything for the best. I say
I nieted my mind with t is, and left afilicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there.

Ilesides, after "W" upon this aflair, I considered that, if this land was the Spanish
coast, I should cert ' y, one time or other, see some vessels or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was the sayage coast between the Spanis country and Brazil, which are
indeed the worst of sava es; for they are caunibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder
and devour all the human 'es that fall into their hands. -

With these considerations I walked vary leisurely forward. I found that side of the island
where I now was much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields sweet, adorned with
flowers and grass, and full of v fine woods. I saw abundance of arrots, and fain would I
have caught one, if possible, to ave kept it to be tame, and tang t it to speak to me. I
did, after some pains taken, catch a you parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and,
having recovered it, I brought it home, ut it was some years before I could make him
speak. However, at last I to ht him to call me by my name, very familiarly; but the
accident that followed, though iiifie a trifle, will be very diverting in it: p see.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found, in the low grounds. hares, as I
thought them to , and foxes, but the differed tly from all the other kinds I had met
with; nor could I satisfy myself to eat em, thong I killed several. But I had no need to be
venturous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was v good too, especiall these
three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons. and turtle or tortoise, which, add to my pes, Lea enhall
market could not have furnished a better table than I, in proportion to a company; and,
thou h my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness that I was
not ven to uni extremities for food, but rather lenty, even to dainties.

I never trove ed in this journey above two 1:: es outrifht in a da , or thereabouts; but I
took as man turns and returns, to see what discoveries could in e, that I came weary
enou h to e place where I resolved to sit down for all night, and then either reposed
my in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set uprightin the und, either
from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without wa ' g me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I had taken up my lot on
the worst side of the island; for here indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles,
whereas on the other side I had found but three in gear and a half. Here was also an infinite
number of fowls of many kinds. some of which I h not seen before. and many of them very
good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as man as I pleased, but was v ' g of my powder and shot, and
therefore had more mind to a she-goat, if I could,::hicEI could better feed on: and though
there were man more goats here than on the other side of the island, yet it was with much more
dificnl that could come near them, the country being flat and even, and they saw me much
sooner on when I was on the hills.

_ I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine,bnt yet I had not the least
inclination to remove, for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed,
all the whileI was here, to be, as it were. u n ajonrney, and from home. However, I travelled
along the shore of the sea towards the east, suppose about twelve miles, and then, setting up a
' great pols uson the shore for a mark, I conclnd I would go home again, and the next journey
took shoul been the other side of the island, east from my dwelling, andso round, till I came
to my st again, of which in its lace.

I too another way to come than that I went, ' ' I could easily keep all the island
so much in my view, thatI could notmiss finding my first welling b viewing the country;
but I found myself mistaken, for, being come abouttwoor three miles, I ound myself descendedmm x..' mm 'l a},

C
27:: L1)": and Athenian: of Robinson Crusoe. 53

into a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those bills covered with'wcods, that
I could not see which was my way by any direction but that of the sun. nor even then, unless I
lrnew very well the position of the sun at that time of the day.

It happened, to my further misfortune. that the weather proved hazy for three or four days,
while I was "I this valley, and, not being able in see the sun, I wandered about very uncom-
fortably, and at last was obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post. and come back the
same wayI went. and. then by mourns" I turned homeward, the weather being exceedingly
hot. and my gun, ammunition, he at, and. other things, very heavy.

Inthis journey my dog sure-grind ayonng kid. and seized upon it; and I, run ' intetake
hold of it, caught it, and sav it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring i home i! I
could, for I had often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and so
raise a breed of tame goats which might sup 1y me when my powder an shot should be spent.

I made a collar for this little creature, an with a string which I made of some rope-yarn.
which I alwatis carried about me, I led him along. though with some difliculty,till I came to my
bower, and ere I sacked him and left him, forI was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot orgies what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch, and lie down in
my hammock- This little wandering 'ourney, without a settled place of abode. had been so
unpleasant to me, that my own house, as called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to me.
compared to that; and it rendered eve ' about me so comfortable that I resolved I would
neiergsgdgreatwa fromit ' w' itdsprugllgbem meets onthersland.' d hrch

re myself ereawes,toreetan my in o 'curney, urin w'
most of the time was taken up in the weightyI ail'air of makiny :gcdge for my P0811, who
began nowtobesmere domestic, andtebemig tywellaequain withme. ThenIbe to
think of thepoorkid,which I hadpentinwithm mylittle circle, andresolved to go an fetch
it home, and give it some food. Awordingly I went. and found it where I left it ; for indeed it
could not get out. but was almost starved or want of food. Iwent andout bc he at trees and
branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and havi fed it. tied it as I did
beforeto load it away. but it was so tame with being hungry, that I no need tehavetied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
fintle, and so fond, that it. became from that time one of my domestics also, and would never

ve me afterwards.

Therainyseasonofthe autumnal equinoxwu new come,and Ikeptthe 30th of Septembsrin
the same solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island, having
now been there two years. and no more prospect of being delivered than the first day I came
there. I spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments d! the many wonderful
mercies which my solitary condition was attended with. and without which it might have been
infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks that God had been pleasedte
discover to me, even that it was possible I might be more happy in this soli condition than
I should have been in a liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the wor : that He could
fully make up to me the deficiencies of mfixs'olitary state and the want of human society by His
presence, and the communication of ' grace to m soul, "ppm. comfortug, and
encouraging me to do nd upon His providence hormand ops for His e presence hereafter.

Itwas now that I ggan sensibly to feel how much more happi the life I now led was, with
allits mherable circumstances,thanthewiohed,cursed,abcmma lehfeIledallthe pastpart
of my days: and now, having changed both my sorrows and my joys. my desires altered,
my afi'ectrons changed their gust, and my delights were perfectly new from w at they were at

coming, or indeed for two years . .

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewm the country, the anguish of
my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a an on, and my very heart would
die within me,to thinkof the woods,the mountains,tbe deserts I was in; andhowIwasa
prisoner, locked up with the eternal bolts and bars of the ocean. in an uninhabited wilderness,
withoutredemption. Inthemidstof the greatestmgsurse of my mind, thiswould break out
uponmelikeastermmndmademewrmgmy andweeplikeachrld. Bometrmssit
would take me in the middle of my work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh and look
upon the ground for an hour or two together; and this was still worse to me; for if I could
burst out into tears, or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts; I daily read the Word of God, and
applied all the comforts of it to my present state. One morning. being very sad, I opened the
Bi le 1: 11 these words: " I will never, never leave thee, nor forsukethee !" Immediawa it

that these words were to me; why else should theybe directed in suehamanner, just at
the moment when I was monrnin over my condition, as one forsaken of God and man ? Well,
then, said I, if God does not fo 'e mo, of what ill-co uence can it be, or what matters it,
tho h the world should all forsake me--seeing, on the ot er hand, if I had all the world, and
sho'rifd lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be no comparison in the loss?

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was possible for me to be more
happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was beble I should ever have been in any
other particular state in the world; and with this thong t I was goingto give thanks to God for
bi-ingg me to this place.

I ow not what it was, but something shocked my mind at that thought, and I dnrst not
Erik the words. How canst then be such an hypocrite (said I, even audib y), to retend to be

nlrful for a condition which, however thou mayeet endeavour to be conten with, thou
wouldest rather pray heartil to be delivered from 2' So I stop there; but though I could
not say I thanked God for in there, yet I sincerely gave t ankle to God for opening my
eyes, by whatever afllicting provi ences, to see the former condition of my life, and to mourn for
my wickedness and repent. I never 0 nod. the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me
blessed God for directing my friend in ngland, without any order of mine, to pack it up among
in goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the sh: .
us, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and though have not given
the reader the trouble of so particular an account of in works this year as at the first. yet in
general it may be observed that I was v12? seldom i e, having regularly divided my time
aceo ' to the several daily employments t at were before mksuch as, first, my duty to God,
and ' g the Scriptures, which I constagg'liy set apart some time for, thrice every day.
Secondly, t e going abroad with my gun for f , which generally took me up three hours every
mornin when it id not rain. ' hirdl . the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what
Ihad killed or caught for my sup ly. hese took up great part of the day. Also it is to be
considered that, in the middle of t e day, when the sunwas inthe zenith, the violence of the heat
was too t to stir out; so that about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be
cup to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
war ' g, and went to work in the mornin , and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, desire may be added the exceedin laboriousness of
my work; the many hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want 0 skill, everythin
that I did took up out of my time: for example, I was full two-and-forty da s making a board
for a. long shelf which I wanted in my cave, whereas two sawyers, With t eir tools and saw-
pit, would have out six of them out of the same tree in half a day.

Myeasewas this: It was tobea lurgetreewhich was to be cut down, becausemy board
was to be a broad one. The tree I was three days a. cuttin down, and two more cutting off the
hon he, and reducing it to a log. or piece of timber. Wi inexpreesible hacking and hewing,
I need both the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough to move; then I turned
it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end: then, tnrnin that
side downward, cut the other side till I brought the plank to be about three inches thic , and
smooth on both sides. Any one mailing: t e labour of my hands in such a iece of work;
but labour and patience carried me ug that and many other things. I on y observe this
in particularto show the reason why so much of in time went away with so little work, viz.,
that what might be a little to be done with help an tools was a. vast labour, and required a
prodigious time to do alone and by hand.

But, notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I went through many things, and, indeed,
fjvlerytlrmgI ' that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will appear by what
0 owe.

I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my crolp of barley and rice.
The ground Ihad manured or do n for them was not great; forms observed myseedof
each was not above the quantity of a peck, for I had lost one whole crop bf sowing in the
dry season; but now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I found was in danger
of losing it all again b enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it.
At first, the goats, an wild creatures which I called hares, which, tasting the sweetness of the
blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so closethat it could get no time
to shoot up into stalks.

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it with a hedge, which I did with
a great deal of toil; and the more because it required a great deal of speed, the creatures daily
spoiling m corn. However, as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it total]
well ten in about three weeks' time; and, shooting some of the creatures in the da ' s,
set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he wo d stand
and bark all ht long: so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew
very stro an well, and began to ripen space.

But as e beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade so the birds were as like
to ruin me now, when it was inthe ear; for sing alo by the place to see how it throve, I
saw my little crop surrounded with fowls of Ifinow not w many sorts, which stood as it were
watehin till I should be gone. I immediately let fl among them (for I always had my gun
with me . I had no sooner shot than there rose up a 'ttle cloud of fowls, which I had not seen
at all, from among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that, in a few days, they would devour all my hopes,
that I should be starved, and neverbe able to raise a crop at all, and what to do I could not tell.
However, I resolved not to lose my corn, if ible, though I should watch it night and day.
'In the first lace, I went among it to see w t damage was already done, and found they had
spoiled a deal of it, but that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so great,
but the remainder was like to be a good crop, if it co 6. be saved.

I stayed by itto load my gun, and then, coming away, I could easily seethe thieves sitting upon
all the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it to be
so ; for as I walked off, as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their syht than they dropped
down one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked that I coul not have fieneeto
stay till more came on, brewing that every grain that they ate now was, as it mrg t be said,
apeck loaftomeinthe consequence; but, coming up to the hedge, I tired , and killed
three ofthem. This was what I wished for; so Itook them up and served emas weserve
notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged them in chains for a terror to others. It isim-
possible to imagine almofl that this should have such an efi'ect as it had, for the {owls would
notonly not come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part of the island, and I could
neverseeabird nearthe laceaslengasmy scarecrowshungthere. .

This I was very glad o , you may be sure; and about the latter end of December, which was
our second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.

Iwassadlyputtoitforasoytheor a sickle to cutitdewn,and_allIcoulddowastpmake
one as well as could, out of one of the broad-swords or cutlasses which I saved among the arms
out of the ship. However, as my crop was but small, I had no great didiculty to cut_ it down :
in short, I rea it my way, for I cut nothing of but the ears, and earned it awe. m a t
basket which had made, and so rubbed it out with :3 hands: and at the en of my
harvestin I found that, out of my half-peck of seed, I h new two bushels of rice, and above
2: bushgs and a half of barley--that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that

e.

However, thiswasagreat enco entto medeformwthatintime, it would

please God to suppl me with bread. d yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither knew
ow to grind or maze med ot'my corn, or indeed howto clean it andpartrt; nor, ifmade mto
meal, howtomakc breedefit; andithow tomakelt, yet I knew not howtobakert. These56 272 Life and Adi/allure: of Radius-m C mos.

thi being sddedto my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure o. constant

supp y, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the next

season, and in the meantime to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this
work of providing m self wit corn and bread.

It might be trul said 1: at now I worked for my bread. It is a little wonderful, and what
I believe few peep e have thought much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little things
:eceslsary in the providing, producing. curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one article of

res .

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to be my daily discouragement,
and was made more and more sensible of it every hour, even after I got the first handful of
seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no lough to turn the earth, no spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered
by makin a w on spade, as I observed before, but this did my work in but a wooden manner;
and thong it cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only wore
out the sooner, but made my work the harder, and made it be performed much worse.

However, this I bore with too, and was content to work it out with patience, and bear with
the badness of the performance. When the corn was sowed, I had no barrow, but was forced to
g: over it myself, and drag a t heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as it may

celled, rather than rake or arrow it.

When it was growing or grown, I have observed already how many things I wanted to fence
it, secure it. mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, thrash, port it from the chaff, and save it.
Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into breed,
and an oven to bake it in; and all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet
the corn was an inestimable comfort and ndvanta to me too. But all this, as I said, made
everything labofious and tedious to me, but that t era was no help for; neither was my time
so much less to me, because I had divided it. A certain part of it was every day appointed to
these works; and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity1
by me, I had the next six months to apply myself, wholly by labour and invention, to fn '
myself with utensils pro r for the performing all the operations necessary for the making
the corn. when I had it, t for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough to sow above an acre of
ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at least to make a. :pade, which, when it was

us, was a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required don e labour to work with it.
However, I went through that, and sowed my seeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as near
my house as I could find them to my mind. and fenced them in with a good hedge. the stakes
of which were all cut off that wood which I had set before, which I knew would grow; so that

in one year's time I knew I should have a quick or living hedge that would want but little
repair. This work was not so little as to take me up less than three months, because great part
of that time was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.

Within doorothat is, when it rained, and I could not f0 out--I found employment on the
following occasion, alwa s oburvin that, all the while was at work, I diverted myself with
talking to my parrot, on teaching ' to speak; and I quickly learnt him to know his own
name; at last to speak it out pretty loud. Poll, which was the first word I ever heard spoken
in the island by any month but my own. This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to
my work: for now, as I said, I had a great em loyment upon my hands, as follows: viz., I had
long studied. by some means or other, to m e myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I
wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at them. However, considering the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find out any such clay, I-might batch u some such t
as might, being dried by the sun, be hard enon h and strong enough to hear andling, an to
hold anything that was dry, and required to be e t so: and as this was necessary in preparin
corn, meal, &c., which was the thin I was 11 , resolved to make some as large as I co
and lit only to stand like 'ars to he 6. what onld be put into them.

It would make the res pigdme, or rather laugh at me, to tell how many awkward we I
took to raise this paste--what , mis-shnpcn, ugly things I made--how many of them f in,
and how many fell out. the clay not being stiE enough to bear its own weight--how many
cracked h the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily. and how may tell to
. w: onlyremonng.aswall before as aftertheywere dried, and.in a word, homafier
vmglabouredhard to find the ole .to dig it. to temperit. tohdngithomeandworkihl
couldhuoii rinoake above two large ugly thinge' --I cannot call them jars--in about two
men s' a nr.

However, as the sun baked thesetwo very dry and hard. I lifted themvery gentl up, and
set them down againin two greaterwickerbukete. which I hadmadeon purposefor on that
they ht not break; and as between the pot and the basket there was a little room to .
I stufi it full of the rice and barley straw; and these two pots, being to stand always m
thought would hold in dry corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.

.ThoughImiscarri eomuchinmydeeignforlargepots, at I made several smallerthings
with better suoeem, such as little round ts, flat dishes, pitcgers. and pipkins, and anything my
handturnedto, andthe heatofthe sun edtherustrangelyhard.

_ But all this would not answer my end, which was to fat an earthen pot to hold what was
hand and. hear the fire, which none 0! than could do. t happened after some time, making a
preglarge fire tor cooking mymeat. when Iweutto put it out afterthsd donewithit,I

ou abrokenpieeeofaneof myearthenwarevesselsin hefire.hnrntaahardasashne and
redasatile. Iwasugreeahly fisedtoueihandsaidtomyselffhatcortainlytheymight
be made toburn whole if they wo d burn broken.

This set mete studyhowto order myflre,eo ash make itburnrnesomepois. Ihadno
notion of a kiln, such as the potter-s burn in, or of glaring them with lead. though I had some
lead to do it with; but I placed three largepiplzius, and two orthree pots, inapile one upon
another, and placed my firewood all round it, with a great h of embers under them: I
plied the firewith fresh fuel round the outside, anduponthe top, I sawthefotsinthe inside
red-hot quite through. and. observed thatthey did not crack at all: when saw then clear
red,I let them stand in fhatheetabont five or sixhonrs. till Ifoundoueofthem, thoughit did
not creek, did melt or run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay, melted by the vio-
lenoeofthe heatandwouldhaveruninto laes,iPSIhadgoneon;soIslaekedm fire
gradually, fill the pole began to abate of the colour; and watching them all $31M, I
mightnotletthefireabatetoofastinthemruinglhadthreevery _I ' notsay
handsome pi kins, and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could he ; and one of
them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthenware for my use;
but I must needs say, as to the shapes of them, they were veryindliierent, as any one may
sup so, when I had no wayof making them, but as the children make dart-pies, or as a woman
wo d make pies that never learnt to raise paste.

Nojoyatathiugof someanauaturewas ever. ualtomine,whenIfoum_i I had made an
earthenpotthatwouldhearthsfire;and1had ypatieneetostsyhfltheywese cold
before I set one upon the fire again, with some water in it, to box! me some meat. which it did
admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, thouil'hbwanted
oatmeal and several other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would have it.

Myuext ooneernwes to getmeastouemortartostarnp orbeatsomecornrn; ions-tothe
mill, there was no thought of arrinnf to that eofiou otartwrth one pair of hands. To
supply this went I was at a great on; for, 0 all trades 1n the world, was as perfectly
unqualified for a stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither had I angotools toga about it with.
I spent manyu daytofind out a great stone big one h focut Human make fit for a
mortar, and could find none at all, except what was in sohd rock, and which I had no '31
to dig or cutout; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the islandoflhardness suficieut, but were
of a sandy, crumbling stone, which would neither bear the weight of _a heavy pestle, nor would
breakthe oomwithontfillingitwithsand; so.afteragrmt deal of time loetm War
a stone. I vs it over, and. resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood, which I d.
indeedmu easier; and, getting one as big as I hadstreugth to star I rounded_it.and for-med
itontheoutsidewith myaxe and hatchet; udthemmththehelpoffimandinfimtslabonr,58 27.: Life and Adveuturuqfkabimm Cram.

made ahollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. Afierthis, I made a
great heavy pestle or beater of the wood called the iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by
against I had my next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my
corn or meal to make my bread. .

My next difficulty was to make a. sieve. or scarce, to dress my meal and part it from the bran
and the husk, without which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a most
difficult thing, so much as but to think on; for, to be sure, I had nothing like the 1:
thin to make it with--I mean fine thin canvas, or stufl, to searce the meal throu h. An
here was at a. full stop for man months, nor did I really know what to do. Linen I none
left but whatwaa mere rage; I goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it,
and, had I known how, here were no tools to work it with. All the remed that I found for
this was that at last I did remember I had, among the seamen's clothes w 'ch were saved out
of the ship. some ncckcloths of calico or muslin; and with some {pieces of these I made three
small sieves, but Kilo?" enough for the work: and thus I made s ' for some years; how I
did afterwards I s show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should make bread when
I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was no supplying
the want, so I did not concern myself much about it. But for an oven I was indeed in great
pain. At length I found out an e riment for that also, which was this: I made some earthen
vessels, very broad, but not deep; at is to say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine
inches deep. These I burnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and when
I wanted to bake I made a great fire upon the hearth, which I had paved with some square files
"17%: own making and burning also; but I should not call them square.

on the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers or live coals, I drew them forward
upon this hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie till the hearth was very
hoxteh then, sweepi swag" the embers,be Enset dodthlh my laafdgr gogesfigtndzvihelming dmdflt:
(tea enpotn n em, wt eem rs roun con i o e eepinan
he heat; an thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my bar ey-loaves, and
became in a little time a mere pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made myself several cakes
of the rice, and puddings; indeed, I made no pics, neither had I anything to put into them,
supposeipg I had, on: t the flesh either of fowls or oats.
tn notbewon eredat,if allthesc thiugstoo men mostpurtoi thetbirdyearo! my
abode here ; for it is to be observed, that in the intervals 0 these things. I had my new harvest
and husban to mans : for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I
could, and lai it up in t e ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no
floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it with.

And now indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to build my barns bigger. I
wanted a place to lay it up in, for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had
of the bar ey about twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more; inasmuch that I now
resolved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had been uite gone a. great while; also I
resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a w ole year, and to sow but once a

year.

Ugou the whole I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much more than I
conl consume in a. year, so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that Isowed
thelest. in he that such a. quantity would fully provide me with bread, <<he.

All the whi e these things were doing. you ma be sure m thoughts ran many times upon
the prospect of land which I had seen from the 0 or side of e island; and I was not without
secret wishes that I was on shore there, funcying that seeing the main land. and in an inhabited
countryefI might find some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some
means escape.

_But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such a condition, and how' I
might fall into the hands of savages, andgrha such as I might have reason to think Ear
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa : at ' I once came into their power, I should run
ahazard more than athousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had
heard that the pmle of the Canbeau coasts were csunrbels, or men-eaters, and I knew by the
latitude that I co not be far ofi' from that shore : that. supp'ose they were not cannibals, yet
theymight kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen into t sir hands hadbeen served. even
when they had been ten or twenty together; much more I that was but one, and could make
little orno defence. All these things, I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and I
did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took none of my apprehensions at first; and my
head ran ' hfily upon the thoughts of getting over to that shore.

Now I ' for my boy Xury, and the long boat with the shoulder-of-mntten sail, with
which I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa, but this was in vain. Then I
thought I would go and look on our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the
shore a. great way in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost where she did
at first, at not quite. and was turned, by the force of the waves, and the winds, almost bottom
upwards, 'nst the high ridge of a beeehy rough send, but no water about her as before.

If I had ads to have ratified her, and have launched her into the water, the boat would
have done well one h, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough, but
I might have easily creseen that I could no more turn her and set her upright upon her hem.
than I could remove the island. However I want to the wood. and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, resolving to by what I could do. suggesting to myself, that if I could
but turn her down, I might easily repair the damage she had received, and she would be a
v goodboahandImig tgoteseainhervezyeasily.

spared no pains indeed in this g' of frui ess torl, and spent. I think, three or four weeks
about it: at last finding it impossi ls toheave it u with my little strength, I fell to diggm rug
away the sand to undermine it; and so to make it down, setting pieces of wood to
and guide itri htinthefall. '

But when I done this. I was unable to stir it up again, or to get under it. much law to
move it forwards towardsthewater; sonasfotcedto give it over: and et,tho h Iguve
over hopes of the boat, in desire to venture over for the main increased, ra er than ,
as the means for it seem impossible.

This at l set me upon thinking whether it was not possible to make myself a canoe or
periagua, an as the natives of those climates make, even without tools, or as I might say,
without hands, viz. of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy;
and pleased myself extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with m avirg much more
convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering e particular
inconveniences which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz. want of hands to move it into
the water, when it was made; a didiculty much harder for me to surmount than all the conse-
quences of want of tools conldhe tothem; for whatwas it tome, that when I had chosen avast
tree in the woods, I might with great trouble out it down, if, alter I might be able with my
tools to how and dub the outside into a proper shape of a boat, and burn' or cut out the inside
to make it hollow, so to make a ham of_1t; if, after all this, I must leave it just there where I
found it, and was not able to launch it into the water?

One would have thought, I could not have had the least reflection upon my mind of m
circumstances, while I was making my boat, but I should have immediately thought how
should get it into the see; but my thoughts were." intent upon my voyage over the sea in it,
that I never once considered how I should get it of the land: and it was really in its own
nature more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than about forty-five fisthom of
land,whereitla,tosetitafloetinthewater. _

I wentfo wor this boat the most like a fool that ever man did, whohsd any of his
senses awake. I p eased myself with the ' without determining whether I was ever able
to undertake it: not but that the difioultiof unehlilgfi myboat cams often mtom head; but
Ipntastoptemyowninuiriesintoit ythisfoo' auswsrwhiehIgavem ;"Mm
firaythzakeihlwillwmnt fimdodwniezvayotothnmgptitmwhmma" k

' wasamost reposterous ; a eengerneuso my rs _ tower
I went, and felled speeds: tree; I question much whether Solomon ever end such a one forth
huildingthefempleofd'ernsalem; :1th five feet ten Inches dlameter at the lowerpartnext
the stum , and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened or awhile, and then parted into branches. It was not without infinite labour that I
felled this tree; I was twenty days haekin and hewi at it at the bottom: I was fourteen
more gettin the branches and limbs and t e vast sp 'ng head of it out 05', which I hacked
and hewed t ugh with my use and hatchet, with inexpressible labour; after this it cost me a
month to shape it and dub it to a. proportion, and to somet ' alike the bottom of a boat, that
it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near t res months more to clan- the
inside, and work it out so as to make an exactboat of it; this I did indeed without fire, b

mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour; till I had brought it to be a very hen -

some agua, and big enou h to have carried six-and-twenty men, and, consequently, big
enoug to have carried me an all my cargo. .

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with it: the boat was really
much bigger than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life; many
a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, for there remained nothing but to get it into the
water; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I should have begun the
maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be rformed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my evices to get it into the water oiled me, tho h they cost infinite labour too; it
lay about one hundred yards from the water, and not more; ut the first inconvenience was, it
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement. I resolved to dig into
the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity; this I began, and it cost me a prodigious
deal of pains; but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in View P But when this was
worked through, and this diflicu I. managed, it was still much at one; for I could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other at.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the
water u to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began
this wor , and when I began to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug. how
broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found that b the number of hands I had, being none
but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years fore I should have gone through with
it; for the shore la high, so that at the upger end it must have been at least twenty feet deep;
so at length, thong with great reluctancy, gave this attempt over also.

This grieved mo heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the folly of beginning a work
bears we count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
wi it.

'In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this place, and kept my anniversary
with the same devotion. and with as much comfort. as ever before; for by a constant stud , and
serious application of the word of God, and by the assistance of His grace. I gained a di erent
knowledge from what I had before : I entertained difl'erent notions of things; I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote; which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and
indeed no desires about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever like to
have; so I thought it looked, as we may Eerha a look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had
lived in, but was come out of it: and well might say. as father Abraham to Dives, " Between '
me and thee there is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of the world here: I had neither
the " lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, or the pride of life :" I had nothing to covet, for I
had all I was now capable of enjoying: 1 was lord of the whole manor; or, if I opleased, I might
call myself king or emperor over the whole country which I had possession : there were no
rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me; I might have
raised ship-loadin of corn, but I had no use for it; so let as little grow as I thought enough
for my occasion: had tortoises, or turtles enough; but new and than one was as much as I
could put to any use: I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; I had grapes enough
man made wine, or to have cared into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they had been

But all I could make use of, was all that was valuable: I had enou h to eat, and to sup 1y
my wants. and what was all the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the 0g
mustoatitorthevermin; if IsowedmoreeornthanIcould estitinnstho spoiled: thetrsss
thatIeutdcwnwere lyingto rot on the ground,I could makenomoreuse o! themthsnfor
fuel; andthstIhaduooccasion for, butto dress myfocd.

Inamrdfthenntureandexperieuce of things dimted tome, uponjust refiection,that all
the goodthingsofthisworldaro no farthergoodtousthen astheyareforouruse: andthet
whatever we my heap up indeedto give to others, we euj as much as we can use. andno
more. The most covetous griping miser in the world we d have been cured of thsvice of
covetonsnees, ifha had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than I knew what to
do with. Iliad no room for desire, except it was of things which I had not. and they were
but trifies, the h indeed of t use to me. I had. as I hinted before. 3 parcel of money, as
well fild as ' ver, shout ' -six pounds ster' ' i alas! there the misty, sorry, useless
stufi y;Ihadno mannerof ' essforit;and oftentho htwithmyself,thathould
havengiven a handful of it for agrees of tobacco-pipes, orfor ahau -millto gnud my corn; nay,
Iwo dhavegivenit allforsix- nnyworthof turnip and carrotsoed outof E laud.crPSor
ahandfuloi audbeens,au obottleofink:aeitwas.1hadnottheleest van by
it, or benefit it; but there it la in a drawer, and grew mould with the damp the
cuveinthewetseasou;audif1hsd thednwerfullofdiain ,ithadbeenthesamo
case; audthey had beenofno mannerofvaluetome, because olnouse.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than it was at first, and much
easier to my mind, as well as tomy body. Ifregneutl setdown to mymeatwith thankfulness,
and admired the hand of God's rovidence, which thus spread my table in the wilderness.
I learned to look more upon the ' ht side of mly condition, and less upon the dark side; and
to consider what I en'oyed, rather than what wanted; and this ve me sometimes such
secret comforts, that cannot express them; and which I take n 'ce of here, toput those
giantented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them.

use they see and wvet something that He has not given them : all our disconteuts about
what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfuluess for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless would be so to any one that should
fall into such distress as mine was; And this was, to coinsm my present condition with
what I at first it should he; nay, with what it won] certainly have been. if the

rovidence of had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore. w

not only could come at her, but could bring what I got out of her to the shore for my relief
and comfort; without which I had wanted tools to work, weapons for defense. or gunpowder
willfilwttfor ol'hgmyiood. hl d ' representi to It" th mostliel

nweours,masnwoeays,in n in me vy
colorfrpse how I must have sotgd, II I had gitunothin out of the flhipfiow I could not have
wmuchugotmyfmdexcegtfl hand es;an that.asitwas long beforeIfoundeny
of them, I must have perished : that I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a. more
savage: thatif Ihadkilledegoatorufowl byany contrivsnce, Ihadnowayfoslayoropen
them, or the fleehfrom the skin and the bowels, or to out it u ; but must gnaw it nth my
teeth," punitwithmychwglikeabeaet. _

These reflections made me very sensible of We" of Providence to me, and very
thankful tor my present condition, with all its h 'ps and misfortunes; and this part also
Icanuot but recommendtotheredection ofthosewhoueaptiiitheirinieerytosa ."Issn
nfliction like mine P " Let them consider, how much worse the cases of some poop are, an
what their case might have been, if Providence had thought fit. . . . .

I had another reflection which assisted me also to comfort my mind withehgtpes; and this
was, com ' my present condition with what I had deserved, and had th oremeeson to
expect from s hendof Providence; I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledgesudfeuofaod: Ihadbeenwsllinstructedbymyfotherandmother- neither had
they been wanting to me in theirearlyendmvmto infuseareligiousawe ofGodintom
mind, asenseofmyduty,and ofwhat the neturesudendof mybeing unedof me. Bu.
alsslfiillingearl intetheuafaringhquhichofallthshveslsfliemost teofthefesr
ofGodthough ' tenors ore always before them; Isay,PSallmgeerlymtotheseafnnnghfe,
and into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained, was
laughed out of web my meesmates; by a hardened despisin of dangers. and the views of
death, which grew ha itual to me; by my long absence from manner of opportunities to
converse with anything but what was like myself, or to hear anything of whatwas good, or
tended towards it.

So void was I of eve thing that was good, or of the least sense of what I was, or was to be,
that in the greatest dc 'verances I enjoyed, such as my escape from Sallec, my being taken up
by the Portu ese master of the Ship. my being fainted so well in Brazil, my receiving the
cargo from ngland, and the like, never once the words " Thank God," so much as on
my mind, or inm month; not in the greatest distress, had I so much thought as to pray to
Him; nor so mu as to say, " Lord, have mercy upon me!" No, nor to mention the name
of God, unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.

1 had terrible reflections upon in mind for many months, as I have already observed,
on the account of my wicked and ha ened life past; and when I looked about me, and con-
sidered what particular providences had attended me, since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bonntifully with me; had not only punished me less than my iniquity
deserved, but had so plentifulllyasrovided for me; this gave me great hopes that my repentance
was waged, and that God et mercies in store for me.

With ese reflections I work my mind u not onlyto resignationto the will of God in
the present disgosition of my circumstances, at even to a sincere thankfulness for my condi-
tion; and that , who was yeta living mun, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due
punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so manymercics, which I had no reason to have e
in that place; that I ought never more to reprue at my condition, but to rejoice, and to 've
daily thanks for that dail bread which nothing but a cloud of wonders could have bro t:
that I oughtto consider {had been fed even y a miracle, even as great as that of f ' g
Elijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I could hardly have named aplace
in the uninhabited part of the world, where I could have been cast more to my advantage: a
me where, as I had no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous

ts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous creatures, or poisonous,
which I mi ht have fed on to m hurt; no savages to murder and devour me.

In a wo , as my life was a li e of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another: and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my sense of God's ness
to me, and care over me in this oondidion,be my daily consolation; and afler I di makes,
just ILivingnovemeat oi these thi I went away, and was no more sad.

I now been here so long, t many things which I brought on shore for my help, were
either quite ne, or ve much wasted, and near spent.

My ink, as observed, nd been gone for some time, all but a. very little, which I eked out

with water a little and a little, till it was so eit scarce lefl'. any appearance of black upon
the paper: as long as it lasted, I made use 0 it to minute down the days of the month on
which any remarkable thing happened to me; and first, by casting up times past. I remem-
bered that there was a strange concurrence of days, in the var-ions provrdences which befall me,
and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might
have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of cunosity.

First, I had observed that the same day that I broke away from niy father and my friends,
nudran awaytofiullinordsrtogotosea, thesamsday afterwards was taken by the Sallee
man-of--war and made a slave.

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that ship in Yamouth Roads,
that same da. of the yearaiterwardslmade my escape from Sallee in the boat.

The same day of the year-Iwas born on, via, the30th of September, the same day I had my
life so miraculously saved twenty-six care after, when I was cast on shore in this island; so
that my wicked life and solitary his bo began on a day.

Thenext ' torny iak's bein wasted, wasthatof myulzread; I mean the biscuit which
Ibro ht out o the ahi . ThisIhadhusbandedtothe . degree,ullowmg myself batons
cake bresdadayfora veayear;andyet1wasqmtewrthoutbread fornearayearbeiereTtw'wflm'

   

27:: Life and Adventures of Robinson Crime. 63

Igotanycornofm own;sndgreatreason1hadtobsthaukfulthatIhedauyatalL the
gettingitbeing, as asbeensheadyobeervedmexttomirseulous.

Myclothes wobegautodecsyinightily: astelinen, I hndhadnmeagwdwhfleexcopt '

some chequered shirts which I found inthe chests of the other semen, and which I carefully
preserved, because niau times I could hear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very
great helphto me, that had among all the men's clothes of the ship almost three dozen of
shirts. ere were also several thick watch-costs of the seamen's. which were left indeed, but
they were too hot to wear; and though it is true. that the weather was so violently hot that
there was no need of clothcsayet I could not quite naked; no, though I had been inclined to
it, which I was not; nor co I abide the lights of it. though I was all alone.

One reason why I could not go quite naked, was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well
when quite nah , as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin;
whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whistling under the shirt, was
twofold cooler than without it: no more could I ever bring in self to go out in the heat of the
sunwithont a cap orahat; theheatofthe sun heating wi suchviolence as itdoesinthat
place, would give me the headache presently, by darting so directly on rn head, without a cap
or hat on, so that I could not hear it; whereas. if I put on my hat, it wo presentl away.
_ Upon these views I began teconaidsr aboutputting the few rage I had, whichI calfego clothes,
into someorder; Ihadworn out all thewaistcoats Ihad. and mybusinesswasncrwtotryifl
could not make Jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such other ma.-
terials as I had; so I set to work a tailoring, or rather indeed a botching; for I made most
piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three waistcoats. which I hoped
mulgeservme a great while; as for breaches or drawers, I made but u very sorry shitt indeed,

a we . .

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed
ones; andI hadh themu stretchedoutwithsticksinthesun; bywhichineaussorneof
them were so and rd. the? they were fit for little; but others, it seems, were very useful.
The first thing made of these was a great cup for my head, with the hair on the outside to
shoot 0E the rain; and. this I performed so well, thataftsr thisI made a suit of clothes wholly

oithoseskius; thatisfesay,awaisteoataudbreechesopenat thelniees, and both loose; for -

they were rather wanted to hes me cooLthan to keep me warm. I must not omitto acknow-
10589, thatthey were ymade; for ifI wasshsdcsrpentsr.1wasaworsetailor:
however, themere such as I made very goodshiitwith; and when Iwas abroad, if it happened
to rain,the ' of the waistcoetand capheingoutmoehlwasheptverydri.

AfierthisIs tadeeloitimeandpamstemakemeanumbrellalwasinesdingreetwant
of one, andha agreatmindtomake one. IhadseentheminadeiutheBrazils, wherethe are
ve useful in thegreat heutswhicharethere, and. I felt the heats everyjot as greet ere.
an greater too. being nearer the uinox; besides, as I was obligedtobe much abroad, it
wasamostusefulthiugtoine," w fortherainsesthehsats. I teokaworld of ' at
it, and was agreatwhile before Icould makean ' likelytehold;_nay,after I light I
had hitthewa ,IspoiledtwoorthreebeforeI oneto my mind;hutat lastIrnadeonethat
answered in ' emutly well; the main dificulty I found waste make it to let down. I could
niakeitto spread; but ifit did not let down too, and draw in, it would not bepomble for
me any way, but just over- my head. which would not do. However, at last,asI_sagd. I made
onetoanswer; Icovsreditwith slcins,the hairupwerds,so thatitcastofi'theram hke spent.
house, and keptofi' the sun soefisetuall thatIcould walkout in the hottest of theweather,
withgreater advantage than I could {store in the cooleshand whenth no need of it]:
00*: "Ilia..." 1: "mm, d entirel posedbyrcsigning' toth will f

us v ' co l .m min ' ' com ' o ' 0
God. and throwinii: rdyysellf wholly dponythe diam of Hisyl'rovidencc': this made my life better
; to

than sociable for when regret the wantof converssfionJ would ask myself, whether
thus conversing mutually wi my own thoughts, and, as I hope, I may say, with even God
Hing, byeJaoulations, mmbetterthantheutmost enjoyment ofhuinan society in the
wor , . .

   

 
  
 
 

3.4.. ' "

 

.mm

wins 5'
I cannot say, thataiter this, for five years, any extraordinary thin happened to me; but I
lived on in the same course, in the same are and place just as re. The chief thing I
was emplo ed in. besides my early la ur of planting my barley and. rice, and curing my
raisins, of th which I always liept up just enough to have sufieieut stock of the year's provi-
sions beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily labour of going out with my
gun,Ihad one labour tomake me a canoe. which at last I finished: sothat by 'ggmg a canal to
at, six feet wide, and four feet d , I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for
the first, that was so vastly big, as made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to
do, how I should be able to launch it; so never being able to bring it to the water or bring the
water toit, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser
next time. Indeed the next time, though Icould not get a tree groper for it, and was in a
place were I could not get the water to it, at any less distance an, as I have said, of near

alf a mile; yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over; and though I was
near twlzsytv'ears about it, yet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go of to
sea at

However, though my little periagun was finished, yet the size of it was not at all answerable
to the design which I had in view when I made the first; I mean of venturing over to the term
firnw, whereitwasabove forty miles broad ; accordingly, the smallness of in boat assisted to put
an end to that design, and now I thought no more of it. But as I had a t, in next design
was to make a tour round the island; for as I had been on the other side, in one 1) , crossing,
as I have already described it. over the land, so the discoveries I made iuthat journo ,made me
:3 eager to see other parts of the coast; and new I had a boat, I thought of nothing but

' 'ng round the island.

For this purpose, and that I might do everything with discretion and consideration, I EM
raga little mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's sails,
w ich lay in store, and of which I had a great store by me.

Eavin fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found she would sail very well. Then
I made rttle lockers and boxes at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and
ammunition, &c., into, to be kept day, either from rain, or the spray of the sea; and a little long
hollow place I cut in the inside of e boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang
down over it to k it dry.

I fixed my um s also in a step at the stern. like a mastic stand over my head, and keep
the heat of the sun of me, like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little voyage
upon the see, but never went far out, nor far from the little creek; but at last, being eager to
new the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved u n my tour, and accordingly I
victualled m shipfor the voy ; puttin in two dozen of my eaves (cakes I should rather call
them) of bar ei-bread; an en f of parched rise, a food I ate a deal of; a. little
bottle of rum, alt a goat, and w erwith shot for killing more, and two watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned be ore, I had saved out of the seamen's chests; see I took, one to
lie upon, and the other to wver me in the night.

It was the sixth of November. in the sixth year of my m'gn, or my captivity, which you
please, that I set out on this voya e, and I found it much longer than I expected : for
though the island itself was not very rge, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a.
{great led e of rocks lie out about two lmues into the see, some above water, some under it; and
ieyoud is a shoal of sand, lying dry a league more; so that I was obliged to go a great
way out to sea to double that paint. _

Vhen I first discovered them, I was going to give over m5 enterprise, and come back again,
not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to see, an above all, doubting how I should
get back again; so 1 came to an anchor. for I had made me a kind of 1m anchor, with a piece
of broken grappling which I t out of the shis. _

Bavrng secured my boat, took my gun, an went on shore, climbing up a hill, which seemed
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

Inmyviewing the seafromthathill whereIstood,I pereeivedastrongmndindeedamost
furious current, which ran to the east, and even came close to the point; and I took the more
noticeof it, because I saw there mightbe some da rthat when I came~into it, I might be
oarriedontto seahy thestrength ofit. and not be is to make tlieisland in. And indeed,
hadInot gottsnfiratuponthishillJbelieve it would have been so; for erewas the some
current on the other side of the island, only that it set it of at a farther distance; and I saw
there was a strong eddy underthe shore; so I had nothing to do butto getout ofthe firstcur-
rent, and I shoal presently be in an eddy.

I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blowing retty fresh (E. at SE. and that
being Just contrary to the said current) made a. great breach 0 the sea upon the int; so that
itfvzhasnagssfsformetokeeptooclomtotheshoreforthebreaoh,nortogoteo cfibeesuse
o e e am.

The third day in the morning, the wind having abated over night, the sea was calm, and I
ventured; but am a warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I
come to the point, when I was not my boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a
great depth of water. and a current hke the sluice of a mill. It carried in boat along with it
with such violence, that all I could do maid not keep her so much as on edge of rt: butI
found it hurried inc farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on the leit hand. There
was no wind stirring to help me, and all that I could do with my paddles signified nothing;
and now I began to give myself over for lost; for, as the current was on both sides the island.
I knew in afew leagues distance they must join again, and then I was irrecoverabl gone; nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it : so that I had no prospect before me but 0 perishing;
not by the sea, for that was calm enough, but of ' for hunger. I had indeed found a
tortoiseonthe shomubigalmcstaslcouldliitand h tosseditintothe boat; andIhada
great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pets; but what was all thisto being

riven into the vast ocean, where, to he sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island, for a
thousand 1 as at least l

And now saw how easy it was for the providence of God. to make the most miserable condi-
tion that mankind could be in worse. Now I looked back upon m desolate solitary island, as
the most pleasant place in the world, and all the hatgpiness my cart could wish for, was to
be there ' . I atretehed out my hands to it wi eager- wishes. " 0 happy desert," said
I, " I never see thee more! 0 miserable creature . " said I, "whither am I going 9 "
Then I reproaehed myself with my untbankful temper, and how I had repined at my solitary
condition; and now what wouldI 've to be on shore there again! Thus we never see the true
state of our condition, fill it is ' ustrated to us by its contrarisa; nor know how to value what
we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was
now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost twoleagues, and inflie utmost ' 0 ever recovering it again: however, I
worked hard, till indeed my stren was almost exhausted; and kept my boat as much to the
northward, that is, towards the si e of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could;
when about noon, as the sun the meridian, I thou ht I felt a httla breeze of wind in my
face, mginfi'up from the .S.E. This cheered my cart a little. and e?ecially when in
about an our more, it blew a pretty small gentle gale. 28 this time .was gotten at a
frightful distance from the island ; and, had the least cloud of weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I had no corn on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I h but case lost sight of it; but the weather
continuin clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to e north as much as possible, to get out of the current.

JustasIhsdsetmymast and sail,and the boat began to stretch away,Iseweven hythc
cleanses of the water, some alteration of the current was near; for where the current was so
strong, the water was foul; hut perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and re-
cently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of theses. upon some rocks; ese
rocks I found caused the current to part again; andasthemainetreuofitrauawaymore
southerl , leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rock. made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west with a very sharp
stream.

a
They who know what it is to have a. re rieve brought to them upon the ladder, or to be
rescued from thieves just going to murder em. or who have been in suchlike extremities, may

see what in resent surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of
t is edd ; an a wind also freshening, how gladl I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
before a wind, and with a. strong tide or eddy un or foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again direct! towards the island.
but about two 1 es more towards the northward than e current y, which carried me
away at first; so when I come near the island, I found myself open to the northern shore
of it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way by the help of this current or
eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no further. However, I found, that being between
the two great currents, viz., that on the south side which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which la about two leagues on the other side; I say, between these two. in
the west of the islan , I found the water at least still, and running no way; and having still a
breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not making such
fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening. being then within about a league of the island, I found
the point of the rocks which occasioned this distance, etretchin out as is described before, to
the southward, and casting off the current more southerly, had 0 course made another edd to
the north; and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the we. my course lay, w ich
was due west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh gale, stretched across this
eddy, slanting northwest, and in about an hour came within about a mile of the shore: it
bein smooth water, I soon to land.

on I was on shore, I is on my knees, and gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving

to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with suc
things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had espied under
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the
V0 .

are; now at a great loss which wnyto get home with my boat; I had run so much hazard,
and knew too mm: the case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and what might
be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more
ventures; so I only resolved in the morning to make my way westward along the shore, and
to see if there was nocreek where I might lay up my frigate in set , so as to have her
again if I wanted her. In about three miles, or thereebouts, coasting shore, I cameto a
ve good inlet. or boy, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet,
or k, where I found a convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay us if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her: here I nt in, and having stowed my boat
v safe, I went on shore to look about me, and see where was.

soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had been before when I travelled
on foot to that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella, for it
was exceeding hot, I began my march: the way was comfortable enough after such a vo age
asIhad been upon, an I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found eve ing
attending as I left it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I said .before, my country-

ease.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest m limbs, for-I was very
weary, and fell asleep: but ju you, if you can, that read my stag, w t a surprise I must be
in, when I was awoke out o my slee by a voice calling me y my name several times,
"Bohin,Eobin, Robin Crusoe, poor Bo in Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where
"Eye"? (1 dreading ymlirst, lie" fatigued th dling called. th

wasso ea eepat ing ' wi rowing,or ' ,asitis efirst
got the day, and walking the latter part, that I did not [geeks thoroughly; and dosing
_eeu sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that somehod spoke to me: but as the voice
continued to repeat " Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last Ihegau to awake more perfectly.
and was atfirstdresdfnlly frightened, and started up in the utmost consternation; but no sooner
were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immediame knew
that thiswaahejhat spoketome;forjustinsuchbemoaning nageIhadusedtotalkto
him, and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly, that be we art upon my finger, and
lay his bill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe, Where are you? Where have you
been P How earns you here P "--and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it could be nobody else, it
was a good while before I could com so myself. First, I was ammd how the creature got
thither, and than how he should just eep about the place, and no where else: but as I was well
satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; and holding out my hand, and cam
him by his name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and eat upon my thumb. as he
to do, and continued talkin to me, Poor Robin Crusoe, and how did I come here? and
31mm hogI been? justas if a had been overjoyed to see me again; and MI carriedhim home

on W! me.

I ad now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough to do for many
days to sit still, and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would have beenve glad to
have had my boat again on my side of the island, but I knew not how it was practice le to get
it about. As to the east-side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew well enou h there
was no vent ' that wzy; my very heart would shrink. and in very blood run c ' but to
think of it; and as to e 0 or side of the island. I did not ow how it might be there;
but su'pposing the current ran with the same force against the shore at the east, as it passed by
it on e other, I might run the same risk of being 'van down the stream, and carried b the
island, as I had been before of being carried own from it: so with these thoughts con-
tented myself to be without any boat, though it been the product of so many months'
labour to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea. . . _

In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a very sedate, retired life,
as dyou may well suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed, as to my condition, .
an fully comfortedin ' ' myself to the dispensation of Providence, I thought I lived
really very happily in am except that of society. . _ . .

I improved myself.in this time, in all the mechanic exercises which my necessities put me
upon a plying myself to; and I believe could, upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter,
"why considering how few tools I had. .

'des this, I arnvad at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware. and contrived well
enough to make them with a wheel, which found infinitely easier andbe , because I made
things round and shapeable, which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think I
never was more vein. of my own performance. or more joyful for anything I found out, than
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly, clumsy thin , when
it was done, and only burnt red like other earthenware, yet, as it was hard and firm, an would
draw the smoke, I was exceedin ly comforted with it; for I had been always used to smoke, and
there were pi in the shi , but I forgot them at first, not knowing there was tobacco in the
island; and. when searched the shi again, I could not come at any pipes at all.

In my wickerware I also im raved much, an made abundance of necessary baskets, aswell
as my invention showed me, t ough not very handsome, t convenient for my laying things
up in, or fetching things home in. For example, if I kill algoat abroad. I could has it _up . V
inatree,flayit, anddrees it, and cutit inpieces,andbring it homemabasket- and_ alike
by a turtle: I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a. race or two of the flesh, which was
enou h for me, and bring them home in a basket, and vs the reetbehmd mag also large
doe $88k"! were my receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry,
on cured; mdkeptitingmtbasketeinsteadofagranary. . _ .

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; andflns was a want which it was
impossible for me to sup ly : then I began serionsl to consider what I must do when I
should have no morepow or; that is to say,howIs ould deioh'll an goats
observed, in the third year of my being here, kept ayonug kid, andbred tam _-
ho of gsttinf a he-kid, butI could not by any means bring 16. to pass, till my
01 goat; and couldneverfindinmyheartfozkillherfiillshedisdatlastofmmaga.

s
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have said, my ammunition
growing low, I set myself to study some art to tra and snare the goats, to see whether I
could not catch some of them alive; and particularly wanmd a shevgoat great with young.

To this urpose I made snares to hamper them; and believe they were more than once
taken in t em; but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and always found them
broken, and m bait dcvon . ,

At length resolved to try a pit-fall; so I dug several large fits in the earth, in places
where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over these pits laced hurdles of my own
making too, with a great weight upon them: and several times I pa ears of barley. and. dry
rice, without setting the tra ; and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in, and
eaten up the corn, for I coul see the mark of their feet; at length, I set three traps in one
night, and going the next morning. I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and
gone. This was very discouraging; however, I altered my trap; and not to trouble you with
particulars, iag one morning to see in tra , I found in one of them a large old hegoat;
and, in one o the others, three kids, a m e an two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce I durst not go into the
pit to him; that is to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted; I
could have killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer in end; so I e'cn let
him out, and he ran awayas if he had been fri htened out of his wits; but did not then know
what I afterwards learned, that hunger woul tamea lion: if I had let him stay there three
or four days without food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then a little
corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable
creatures. where they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time; then I went to the
three kids; and taking them one by one, I tied them with strings together; and with some
difficulty brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted
them, and they began to be tame: and new I found that ' I expected to supply myself with
goat's flesh, when had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when
perhaps I might have thorn about my house like a flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me, that I must hes the tame from the wild, or else
the would alwa s run wild when they grew up; and the 05 way for this was to have some
one osed piece 0 ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so efi'ectnally,
that those within might not break out. or those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet asI saw there was an absolute
necessity of domg it, my first piece of work was to find out a per piece of ground; viz. where
there was likelyto be herbage for them to eat, water for em to drink, and cover to keep
them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures. will think I had very little contrivance, when I pitched
upon a place we proper forall these, beingaplain o a piece of meadow-land, or savanna -
(as our people 0 it in the western colonies), which hmfetwo or three little drills of fresh water
in it, and at one end was very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell
them I began my enclosing of this piece of groan in such a manner, that my hedge, or pale. A
must have been at least two miles about; nor was the madness of it so great as to the
compass; forifitwas ten miles aboutlwasliketo have time enough todo itin; butIdid not
consider, that my ts would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had had 'the whole
island; and I shougda have so much room to chase them in, that I should never catch them.

My henge was and carried on, I believe, about fifty yards, when this thought occurred
to me; so presen ysto ped short, and forthefirst beginnmgIresolved toenolose apiece of
about 150 yards in length), and 100 yards in breadth, which as it would maintain as many as I
shzluld have in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could. add more ground to my
en osare.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with courage. I was about three
months hedging mthe firstpiece; and,till I haddoneit. I tethered the threelridsinthe beet
partof it,andusedfhemtofoedasnesrmeaspom'ble,tomahsthemPSamilias; andvcry oflon
would go and carry them some ears of barle , or a handful of rice, and feed them out of.my
nd; so that after my enclosure was finish and. I let them loose, they would follow me up

d down, bloating after me for a handful of corn. ~

This answered my end, and in aboutayear and ahalf I had a flock of about twelve goats,
kids and all; and in two years more I had three-end-forty, besides several that I too and
killed for my food; and after that I enclosed five several pious of ground to feed them in, with
littl'glgens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted them; and gates out of' one piece of
gro into another.

But this was not all; for new I not only had goat's flesh to feed on, when I pleased, but milk
too, a thing which indeed in myrfiinning I did not so much as think of, and which, when
it .came into my thoughts, was an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my dairy, and
had sometimes a gallon ortwo of mil: in a day. And as Nsture, who 'ves supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I, had never milked
a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readil and handily, though
after a. great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter and ease at lust, and never
wanted it afterwards. -

How mercifully can our great Creator treat His creatures, even in those conditions in which
the seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the bittsrest providencea
an give no cause to praise Him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was ere spread
for main awilderness. whereI saw nothing atfirstbutto psrishfor hun r! '

It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and my little fem' y sit down to dinner:
there was my majesty, the rince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my sub-
jects at absolute commas ; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, andno rebels
among all my subjects!

Then to see how like a kin I dined too, all alone, attended by my servants! Poll, as if he
hadbeenmyfavourite,wast eonlypersonpermittedtotalkto me; my ,whichwasnow

wn old and crazy, and found no 'es to multiply his kind upon, sat ways at my {PS13
mid; and two cats, one on one side a table, and one on the other, expecting now and
a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour.

But these were not the two sets which I brought on shore at first; for they were both oftheni
dead, and had been interred near my habitation by my own hands; but one of them having
multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, these were two which I preserved tame,
whereas the rest ran wild into the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last; for
they would often cams into my house, and plunder me too, till at_la.st I was obliged to shoot
them, and did kill a great many; at length they left me with this attendance, and in this
plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be said to want anything but society, and of that, in'
some time after this, I was like to have too much. ,

I was somethin impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my boat, though very loth
to run any more ; and, therefore, sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about
the island, and at other times I sat in If down, contented eno h without her. But I hula
strange uneasiness in my mindthohgo own to the point of the ' d, where, as I have said in
mylast ramble,Iwent u the ' to see how the shcislay,a.nd howtheoumntMthatI
might see what I hadto o. This inclination increased upon me every day, and. at length I
resolved to travel thither by land, and, followin the edge of the shore, I did so: but had. any
one in England been to meet such a man as was. it must either have frightened them, or
raised a great deal of laughter; and, as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not
but smile at the notion of my tra ' through Yorkshire with such an equipagc and in such
adress. Bepleasedtotakeasketch myfigumasfollowa:-- . .

I had a great, high, shopsless cap. made of goat's-skin, with _a flap hanging down behind, as
welltokespthssunirom meastoshoottherainofi fromrunnin mtomynechnothingbemg
sohurliulintheseclimatesastherainuponthefleshunderthe thss. .

I had a short jacket of goat'Hkin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of my

 

.1". '
andapairofopsn-knesdbrecchesofuiesanie. Thebreechesweremadeoftheahnuhyan . .
old he-goat, whose hair hun down such a length on either side that, like pantaloons, it reached
to the middle of my legs. tockin and shoes Ihad none; but Imnde me a pair of something.
I scarce know what to call them, 11 'e buskins, to do over my legs, and lace on either side lik'e
spatterdashcs; but of a most barbarous shape, as in eed were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's-skin dried, which I drew together with two ,thongs of the
same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and
dagger, hung a little saw and hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had another belt.
not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the end
of it, under my lelt arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's-skin too, in one of which hung
my powder, in the other in shot. At my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun,
and over in head a at, c umsy, ugly goat's-skin umbrella, but whic , after all, was the most
necessary t ing I ha about me, next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really
notso mulatto-like as one might ex tfrorn a man not at all careful of it, and living within nine
or ten degrees of the equinox. My rd I had once sufiered to ow till it was about a quarter
of a yard long; but, as I had both scissors and razors sufiicient, had cut it pretty short, erupt
what grew on my wiper lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such
as I had seen worn y some Turks whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors did not wear such,
though the Turks did. Of these mustachios. or whiskers, I will not say they were lon enough to
hang my hat upon them; but they were of length and shape monstrous enough, an such as in
En and would have nssed for frightful.

at all this is by-t e-byc: for, as to my figure, I had so few to observe me that it was of no
manner of consequence; so I say no more to that rt. In this kind of I went my new
journe ', and was out five or six days. I travelled rst along the mahore, ' y to the place
where first brought my boatto an anchor to get up upon the rocks; and, having no boat now to
take care of, I went over the land a nearer way,to the same hei ht that! was upon before, when,
looking forward to the point of the rock which lay out, and whic I was obliged to double with my
boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the see. all smooth and quiet--no rippling, no motion,
no current, any more there than in other laces.

I was at a strange loss to understand t is, and resolved to spend some time in the observin
of it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was resently convinces
how it was, viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and 'oining with t c current of waters
from some triver on the shore, must be the occasion of t ' current; and that according
as the win blew more forcibly from the west, or from the north, this current came nearer,
or went farther from the shore; for, waitin thereobouts till evening, I went u to the me):
again, and then the tide of ebb being made, plain] saw the current again as be ore, only that
it ran farther ofi, being near half a league from t e shore; whereas in my case, it set close
uporlr1 thedshore, and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at another time it would
not ave one.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but to observe the ebbing and the
flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the island again: but when I
began to think of puttinag it in practice, I be such a terror upon_my spirits at the remem-
brance of the danIger I h been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience; but
on the contrary, took up another resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious; and
this was, that I would build. or rather make me another pedagua, or canoe; and so have one
for one side of the island, and one for the other. .

You are to understand. that now I had, as I may call it, two plantations in the island; one
in little fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the rock, wrth the cave behind me.
which by this timeI had enlarged into several a rtments or eaves, one within another. One
of these, which was the driest and largest, and ad a door yet beyond my wall or fortification,
that is to say, beyond where my wall 'oined to the rock, was all filled up mth large earthen ts,
of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would old
five or six bushels each, where I laid n my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the
car out of short from the straw, and t e other rubbed out with my hands. _

As for my well, made as before, with long stakes or piles, those piles grow all like trees, and
were by this time grown so bi , and spread so ve much, that there was not the least appear-
ance, to any oue's view, of any hitahon behind em.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and upon lower and, 1a.
my two pieces of corn ground; which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which ul yielded
me their harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more con, I had more land

"giggling as fit as that. V
' 'des this, I had my country-seat, and I had now a. tolerable plantation there also; for
first, I had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say. I kept the
h which circled it in, oonstantl fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always
in t e inside: I kept thetrses,whi at firstwere no more than my stakes, but werenow wn
vs? firm and tell ; Ikept them always so cut, that they might spread and w thick an wild,
on make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to my mind. a the middle of this
I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a soil spread over poles set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewirgs; and under this I had made me a ash or
coach, with the skins of the creatures I had ' , and with other soft things, and a b at laid
on them, such as belonged to our see-bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover are; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chiet seat, I took up my
country habitation. .

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is to say, my goats; and as I had
taken an inconceivable deal of ' s to fence and enclose this ground. I was so uneasy to see it
kept entire, lest the goats shorfidmbroek through, that I never ett 05 till, with infinite labour, I
had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it
was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through between
them, which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made
the enclosure strong, like a well; indeed, stronger than any wall.

Thiswill testify for me thathus not idle,and that I spared no pains talking to pass
whatever appeared necessary for mmmfortable support; for I considered the keeping up a
breed of tame creatures thus at my , would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese, for me, as lougasIlived in the place,if itwere to be fortyyears; and that keeping
them in my reach, depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a niggree
I might be sure of keeping them together; which by this method, indeed, I so actually
secured, that when these little stakes began to grow, had planted them so very thick, I was
forced to pull some of- them up again.

In this place, also, I had my grapes wing, which I principally depended on for my winter
store olilmdsdiu' an? whicllrI inglver fended 3mg" very cazefu'llly, as "We": meet."

e 'n omwo 'et; in eywerenooyegrm upysr
wholesome, nontryishingfaud refreshing to the last degree. _

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place where I had laid
up my boat, I generally stayed. and 1a here in my way thither; for I used frequently to Visit
my boat. and I opt all things about or longing to her in very good order. Sometimes I went
outiu her to divert m , at no more hazardous voyages would I , nor scarce ever above
a stone'scastor two mtheshore,Iwas so a prehenseve of being urnedout of myknow-
ledge again by the currents,orwinds,oranyo er acoident. ButnowIcomtoanewscene

ofmylrfe.

Itha edoneda aboutnoon, ' towardsm boatlwasexceedingly risede
the riritpgiiaman's riakedfmtongthbngrmwhichiasveryplaintobemflemd. I
etoodlikeousthundersh'uekmrasiflhadseenanappar-itiou. Ihstened; Ilookedroundme,
Icouldhearn ' ,norseeanything;Iwentnptoa " smudfolookfarther. Iweut
uptheshomand owntheshorabutitwssallone;leoul seenoothsrimpreeswabntflrat
one. Iwenttoitngain.toseeiftherewsreanymore,andtoobeervex!rtmrghtnotbem
fancy,buttherewasnoroomPSorthat,iorfherewaseneflythevzfipnntofatoohtoes,
nudeverypartofafoot HowitcamefhitherIknewuohnoroo mtheleastrmsgms. But
atterinnumerable fluttering thoughts, likeamauperfectl confusedmndoutotm self,Ioame
hometomyfortificafion,notfseling.sswesay,tbegreun Iwentombntternfiedtothelast
degree. looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and
faneying every stump at a distance to be a man: nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes an aflrighted imagination representedthingsto me in; how many wild ideas were formed
Every moment in my fancy, and what strange, unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by

e way.

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever after this, I fled into it like one
pursued. Whether I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the
rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I rememberthe next morning. for
never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this retmt.

I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from the occasion of m fright, the greater my
apprehensions were; which is something contrary to the nature of sue things, and especially
to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with my own frightful
ideas of the thing, that I formed nothin but dismal imaginations to :yself, even though I
now was a great way 03 it. Sometimes fancied that it must be the de ' ; and reason joined
in with me n n this sup sition. For how should any other thing in human shape come into
the place? Vhere was e vessel that brought them? What marks were there of any other
footsteps P And how was it possible a man should come there P But then to think that Satan
should take human shape upon him in such a place where there could be no manner of occasion
for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too-for he
could not be sure I should see it--this was an amazement the other way. I considered that
the devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me, than this of the
single print of a foot. That as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he would never
have been so simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I
should ever see it or not--and in the sand, too, which the first surge of the sea u n a high
wind would have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the thing i , and with
all notions we usuall entertain of the subtlet of the devil.

Abundance of an things as these ' to argue me out of all apprehensions of its being
the devil. And Ipresently concluded that it must be some more dangerous creature; viz., That
it must be some of the savages of the mainland over against me, who had wandered out to sea
in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made the island;
and had been on shore, but were gone away again to sea. being as loth, perhaps, to have
eta ed in this desolate island, as I would have been to have had them.

&M' 9 these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was ve thankful in my thought,
that I was so happ as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that ey did not see my boat, by
which they woul ave concluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place, an perhaps
have searched further for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat, and that there were people here; and that if so, I should certainly have
them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen so that they
31101115 not find me. yet the would find in enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my
flock of tame goats. and I s ould perish at t for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious ho : all that former confidence in God which
was founded upon such wonderful expenence as had had of His goodness, now vanished; as if
He that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not reserve by His power the provision which
He had made for me by His goodness. I reproacheg. myself with my essiness, that would not
sow any more corn one year, than would just serve me till the next season, as if no accident
could intervene to prevent or enjoying the crop that was upon the ground. And this I thought
so Just a reproof, t at I reso ved for t e future to have two or three years' corn beforehand, so
that whatever might come, I might not ' for want of breed.

How strange a chequer-work of Provi ence isthelife of man! And by what secret difi'ering
spnngs are the afiections hurried about, as difi'ering circumstances present! To-day we love
what tomorrow we hate; to-day we seek what tomorrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-
morrow we fear. nay, even tremble at the a prehensions of. This was exemplified in me at
thistime, in the most lively manner imaginsb e; for I, whose only afiliction was, that I seemed
hamshed from human society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut of
from mankind, and condemned to what I call asilent life; that I was as one whom Heaven
thought not worthy to be numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of his
creatures; that to have seen one of my own sfieiee, would have seemed to me a raising me
from death to life, and the greatest blessin that seven itself, next to the supreme blessing of
salvation. wold bestow; I say. that I shou d now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a
man. and was ready to sink into the ground, at but the shadow, or silent appearance of a man's
havin sethia footontheislandl

Sue is the uneven state of human life: and it afforded me a great many curious speculations
afterwards, when I had. a little recovered my first surprise. considered that this was the
station of life the infinitely wise and good providence of God had determined for me; that as I
could not foresee what the ends of dinne wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute
His sovereignty, who, as I was His creature. had an undoubted right, by creation, to govern and
die of me absolutely asHe tho ht fit; and who, as I was a creature who had. ofiended Him,
h likewise a judicial right to con emn me to what punishment He thought fit; and that itwas
mv part to submit to bear His indignation, because had sinned against Him.

'I then reflected that God, who was not onl righteous. but omnipotent. as He had thought
fit thus to punish and afflict me. so He was a to deliver me; that if He did not think fit to do
it, it was my unausstioned duty to resign myself absolutely and "61:11 to His.will. And, on
the other hand, it was my dut alsoto hope in Him, pray to Him, quietly to attend the
dictates and directions of His ily rovidence.

These thoughts took me up many ours, days, nay. I may say, weeks and mouths; and one
particular efiect of my oogitations on this occasion I cannot omit; viz. one morning early, lying
in my bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appearance of savages, I ound i
disoomposed me vs much; upon which those words of the Scripture came into mighoughts,
" Call upon Me in e day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify "

U n this, rising cheerfuny out of my bed, my heart was not only comforted. but I was
gui ed and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. When I had. done pra ' , I
took up my Bible, and o ning it to read, the first words that presented to me, were, " sit on
the Lord, and be of cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart: wait, I so , an the Lord."
It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me; and in return, I thank! y laid down the
hook, and was no more and ; at least, not on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitatious, apprehensions, and reflections. it came into my thoughts
one day, that all this might be a mere chimes-s. of my own, and that this foot ' ht be the print
ofmy own foot, when I came on share from my boat. This cheered me up a ttle too, and I
began to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own feet; and
why might not I come that way from the boat as well as I was going that way to the hm?
A in considered also, that I could by no means tell for certain where I had trod, and where
I adnot; andthatif atlastthia was onlytheprintofmy ownfoot,Ihad playedthepartof
thou fools. who strive to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are themselves
fri htened at them more than anybody else. .

PS10le to take coma and to pee abroad again; fothad not stirred onto! my
oastlet'or three days and nig ts, so thntIRgan to starve for revision; iorI hadhttleor
nothing within doors, but some barley-cakes and water. Then I w that my goats_wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my eveningeigersion: and the poor creatures were in great

: it almost spoiled some of them. and almost

52m and inconvenience for want of it; and in
ed up their milk. ' .

Hearteuing myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of
mycwn feet (and soImightbetmlyeeidtostartatmyown shadow),Ibegan to go abroad
again, and wentto mycoun -house to milk my deck; but to see With what fear I went
forward, how often I looked 'nd me. how I was ready, eve now and then. to lay down
my basket. and run for my life; it would have made any one vo thought I was haunted
hid": an evil conscience,>> thatIhadbeen latelymostterriblyh'ightened; and so,indeed,I

Howevu,ssteut down thustwoorthree demand having sesnnothing,Ibegantobea
little bolder, and to think there was really nothin in it but my own imagination; but I could
not persuade myself fully of this, till I should go own to the shore again, and see this print of a
foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was an similituds or fitness, that I lit be
assured it was my own foot. But when I came to the p first, it appeared evidently me,
that when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabonts. Secondly,
when I came to measure the mark with in own foot, I found my foot not so large by a great
deal. Both these things filled my head wit new imaginations, and gave me the vapours again
to the hi hest degree; so that I shook with cold, like one in an ague. and I went home 'n,
filled wi the belief that some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security, I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take, when possessed with fear! It deprives them of the
use of those means which reason olIers for their relief. The first thin I roposed to myself
was to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild in t e woods, that the
enemy might not find them, and then frequent the island in p of the same, or the like
booty; then to the simple thing of diggin up my two corn-Eel s, that they mi ht not find
such a grain there, and still to be prompted frequent the island; then to demolis my bower
and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of my habitation, and be prompted to look
farther, in order to find out the persons inhabiting.

These were the subfLects of the first night's itatiou, after I was come home again, while the
apprehensions which ad so over-run my min were fresh upon me, and rip} head was full of
vapours as above. Thus, fear of danger is ten thousand times more ts ' yin than danger
itself, when apparent to the e es; and we find the burden of anxiety eaterqry much than
the evil which we are anxious a ut; but, which was worse than all this. had not that relief in
this trouble from the reignstion I used to practise that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought,
like Saul, who com lain not only that the Philistines were upon him, but that God had or-
salien him; for I 'd not now take due ways to com se my mind, by crying to God in my
distress. and resting u u His Providence, as I had as be ore, for my defence and deliver-
ance: which if I had one, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under this new sur-
prise, and, rhaps, carried through it with more resolution.

This con nsiou of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but in the morning I fell asleep,
and having by the amusement of in mind been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I
slept very soundly, and awaked mue better composed thnnI had ever been before. And now I
began to think sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this island,
which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland than as I had seen,
was not so entirely abandoned as I might ima ' e. That although there were no stated in-
habitants who lived on the spot; yet. that t ere might sometimes come boats off from the
shore, who either with design. or, perhaps, never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place.

hat I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with the least shadow or re 0!
any people before; and that if at any time they should be driven here, it was probab e they
went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix there upon
an occasion to this time.

at the most I could su gest any danger from was from any such casual accidental landing
of straggling peo 1e from c main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wil s; so they made no stay here, but went off again with all possible speed,
seldom staying one ni ht on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides and day-
light back again; and t, therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat,
in case I should see any savages land a n the spot.

New I began sorely to repeat that had du my cave so large as to bring a door through
again, which door, as I said, came out beyond w ere my fortification joined to the rock. Upon
matnroly considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the manner
of a semicircle, at a distance from m wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees
about twelve years before, of which made mention. These trees having been planted so thickwrrwm mm--rmyzi--Nw:

The Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe. 75

before, there wanted but a few piles to be driven between them that they should be thicker and
stronger, and my well would be soon finished.

80 that I had now a. double wall, and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and everything I could think of to make it strong, having in it seven little holes, about
as big as I might at my armout at In the inside of this Ithickened my wall to about ten feet
thick, continually ringing earth out of my cave and laying it at the footof the walland walking
upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to p at the muskets, of which I took notice
that Igot seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted

>> them into frames that held them like a. carriage, that so Icould fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time. This wall I was many a weary monthin finishing, and yet never thought myself
safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without m wall, for a great way every way, as
full with stakes or sticks of the ozierJike wood, which I ound so apt to grow,as they could well
stand; insomuch that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leavin a pretty
large space between them and my well, thstI might have room to see an enemy,and y might
have no shelter from the youngtrees, if they attem ted to approach my outer wall. ,

Thnsin two years' time Ihad athick grove; an infive crsix years' time I had a wood before
my dwelling, we so monstrous thick and sin-ongthat it was indeed perfectly impassable; and
no man, of w t kind soever, would ever imagine that there was an ' beyond it, much
less a. habitation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in and out for I sit no avenue), it
wasby ' two ladders--one to a cftherock which was low, and then broke in, and
left roomto p another ladder upon t at; so, when the two ladders were taken down. no man
living could come downto me without misehiefinghimself, and if they had come down, they were
still on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own preservation; and
it will be seen at length that they were not altogether Without just reason, though I foresaw

nothin atthattimemorethanm merciearsn geeted.
Whifia y careless ofmy otherafi'aimfothadugreat

8
this was doing, I was not altogzther
concern upon me for my little herd of-goa ; they were not only a present supply to me upon
every occasion, and began to be sufieient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, at
also abated thefatigue of m hunting after the wild ones, and I was loth to lose the advantage of
them, and to have them to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think but of two ways to reserve them :
one was to flu another convenient place to dig a cave under und, and to 've them into
it every night; and the otherwas to enclose two or three little its of land, remote from one
another, and as much conceded as I could, where I ' ht keep about half a dozen young goats
in each place; so that if an disaster happened to the k in general, I might be able to raise
themagainwith littletrou leandtime: andthia,thoughit wouldrequiroa greatdealoftune
and. labour. I thought was the most rational design. .

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most retired parts of the island; and I pitehed
upon one. which was as private indeed as my heart could wish; for it was a little damp piece
0 ground in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed. I almost lost
myselfonce before, endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the island:
hereIfound acleer piece of land, near three aerea,so surrounded with woodsthat it was
almosten enclosure h nature; at least it did notwantnear so much labourto make it so,as the
other pieces of gm I had worked so hard at. _

I immediately went to work with this ieee of ground, and in less than a month's tune I had
so fenced it round, that my dock or her; call it which you please, which were not so wrld new
as at firstthey might be supposed tohe, were well enou securedrn it. Sowithout any farther
delay, I removed ten she-feats and two he~goats to ' piece; and when there, I continued.
to perfect the fence,till hadmade it as secureastheother,whieh,however,1did at more
leisure, andittookme up moretimebyagreatdaal.

All this labour I was at the expense 0mm, from my apprehension on the secount
of the print of a man's foot which I seen; ferns yet,I never saw any human
creature come near the island; and I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses.
which indeed made my life much less comfortable than it was before; as may well be
imagined, by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man;
and this I must observe with grief too, that the discomposare of in mind had too t
impressions also upon the religious part of my thoughts, for the dread and terror of to, ling
into the hands of savages and cannibals la so upon my spirits that I seldom found myself in
a. due temper for application to my alrer: at least not with the sedate calmness and
resignation of soul w ich I was wont to do. I rather prayed to God as under great amiction
and. ressure of mind. surrounded with danger. and in expectation every night of being
murdered and devoured before the morning; and I must testify from my experience that a
temper of peace,thsnkfulness, love. and affection, is much more the proper frame for prayer
than that of terror and discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief impending, a.
man is no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of pm ingto God than he is
for repentance on a sick-bed; for these discomposnres affect the min as the others do the
bodmnd the discomposare of the mind must necessarily be as t a disability as that of
the y, and much greateragirayingto God being prgperly an act 0 the mind. not of the bod .

But to go on. After I h thus secured one part my little living stock, I went about t e
whole island, searching for another private place to make such another de 't, when wander-in
more to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and ooking out to sea.
thought I saw a boat upon the sea. at a distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen's sheets which saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me.
and this was so remote that I could not tell what to make of it, than h I looked at it till in
eyes were not able to look an longer: whether it was a boat or not do not know, but as
descended from the hill I can d see no more of it, so I gave it over, only I resolved to go no
more without a pcrspective Sim in-my pocket.

Wheanas come down e hill, to the end of the island, where indeed I had never been
before, I was presentl convinced, that the seeing the rint of a man's foot, was not such a.
strange thing in the is and as I imagined; and, but at it was a s ial Providence that I
was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came, I ould easily have known
that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main when they happened to
be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour; li swise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors. having taken any prisoners, would
bring them .dver to this ore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals,
th would'lrill and eat them: of which hereafter.

en I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being the SJV. point of the
island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the honor
of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands. feet, and other bones of human
bodies; and particularly I oherved a place where there had bed: a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like acoclz- it, where it is sup the savage wretchee had sat down to
their inhuman feastin upon e bodies of their is! ow-crestures.

I was so astouish vnth the sight of these things that I entertained no notions of any
danger to myself from it for a long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutalit , and e horror of the degeneracy of human
nature; which, though I had heard often, yet never had so near aview of before: in short,
I turned away my see from the horrid spectacle, in stomach grow u'clr, and I was 'nst at
the 'nt of 'nting, when nature discharged the ' order from m stomach, and, aving
vomi with an uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but coul not bear to stay in the
place amoment; so I got me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked on
towards my own habitation. -

When I came a little out of that part of fire island, I stood still awhile as amazed; and
then recovering myself, I looked a with the utmost afi'ection of my soul, and," with a flood
of tears m m _ eyes. gave God sake, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was tmguished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that though I had
esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so many comfort: in it,
thatI had still moretogivethanksferthantocomplain of; and this above all, that! had,
even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the know e of Himself. and the hope
of His blessing. which was a felicity more than aufiiciently equi out to all the misery which
I had suffered, or could sufier.

Inthisframeofthaulrfulnsss stnthometomy castle,and beganto be much easier-now,
asto the safety ofmycirenmstances,than everlwasbefore;forI observed,thatthese
wretohsa never came tothis island in search of what they could at; haps not seeking, not
waufing, or notexpectingan ' ghere; and havingoftenuio n beans in thecovered

woody part of it, without fin ' an ' to their purpose. I knew I been here now
almost eighteen years, and never saw the east foo of a human creature there before;
and might be here eighteen more as entirely con as I was now, if I did not discover

myself to them, which Ihad no manner of occasion to do, it being my only business to has
myself eutirel conceded where I was, unless I found a. better sort of creatures than oanui
to make myee known to.

Yet I entertained such an ebhorrence of the savage wretshss that I have been speaking of,
and of the wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another up, that I
continued pensive and sad. and is t close within my own circle for almost two years after
this: when I say in own circle, mean by it my three lantstions, via, my castle, my
country seat, which called my bower, and my enclosure in e woods; nor did I look after
this for any other use than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave
metathesshellish matches was such, that I was as fearful efsesi themes ofseeing the
devilhimsslf: nor did I so much asgo to look after my boat in this time, but began
rather to think of making me another; for I could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me. lest I should meet with some of those
creatures at sea,in which, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had, thatI was in no of being discovered by
these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about them; an I n to live just in
the same composed manner as before; onlynwith this difi'srence, thatI more caution, and.
kept my eyes more about me than I did fore, lest I should pen to be seen any of
them; and, 'cularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, est an of then ' on
the island 3 ould happen to hear it; and it was therefore e vs providence to me,
that I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats,that I no need to hunt any
more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was
with traps and snares, as I had done before: so that for two years after-this, I believe I
never fired my gun once off, though I never went out without it; and, which was more, as I
had saved three pistols out of the shi , I always osrriedthsm out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my goat-skin h3t I likewise fnrhished up one of the great ontlssses
thatIhad outof theshi and made me a belt toput it in also; soqu wasnowamost
formidable fellow to loo at when I went abroad, if you add. to the former WES" of
myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great broad-sword hanging at my side in a t. but
without a scabbard. .

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, exce ' these cautions,
tobereducedtomyformercalm sedate wsyofliving; allthesethingsten toshowmemore
and more how far my condition was from ' miserable, compared to some others; nay, to
many other particulars of life, which it might ave leased God to have made my lot. It
put me upon reflecfin , how little repining there we d be among mankind, at any condition
of life, if 1e woul rather compare their condition with those that are worse, in order
hhfiafiflianbealwayscompariug them withthose which are better, to assist their
mnrinurings and complainings. . _ .

As in mg present condition there were not really mny thing! which I wanted, 60 indeed
Ithought a the fights Ihadbeeu inabont these savage mtshasnd the coneerthad
beeninfor my own reservation, had taken of theedge of my invention for my own son-
vsniences;andI droptagooddesigmwhiehlhadoncebentmythoughtsupou;and
that was, to try if I could not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to brew
myself some beer: this was really awhimsical thought, and I reproved myselt often for the
sim licity of it; for I presently saw there would the want of severe. things necessary
to are making my beer, that it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first, cash to
preserve it in, which was a thing that. as I have observed already. I could never compass; no,
though I s at not many days, ut weeks, nay months, in attem ting it, but to no purpose. In
the next see, I had no hops to make it keep, no yeastto ma c it work, no copper or kettle
to make i boil; and yet, had notall these things intervened, I mean the {rights and terrors
I was in about the savages, I had undertaken it, and perhags bro ht it to pass too; for I
>> selgzm gaere anything over without accomplishing it, when once it in my head enough
to gini . -

But my invention now ran quite another way; for night and day I could think of nothing
but how I might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel, blooddv entertainment, and, if
possible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy. It woul take upa er volume
than this whole work is intended to be to set down all the contrivanoes I hatch , or rather
brooded upon in m thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least frightening them,
so as to prevent eir coming hither any more; but all was abortive. Nothing could be
possible to take effect, unless was to be there to do it myself; and what could one man do
among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together, with their
darts, or thsi; bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could
wit mygun

Sometimes I contrivedto dig a hole under the place where the made their fire, and put in
five or six pounds of powder, which, when the ln'udled their re, would consequently take
firs,and blow up all t was near it; but as, in the first place, I should be very loth to waste
so much powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity of a barrel, so neither
could I be sure of its going off at any certam time, when it might surprise them; and, at best,
that it would do little more than 1:]:th blow the fire about their ears and frighten them, but
not sulficientte make them fore e the place; so I laid it uside,a.nd then roposed that I
would place myself in ambush, in some convenient place, with my three guns double-loaded,
and in the middle of their bloody ceremony let fly at them, when I should he sure to kill or

wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and then, falling in upon them with my three
ma and m sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all.

' fancy p eased my thoughts for some weeks. and I was so full of it that I often dreamt
of it, and sometimes that I was just going to let I! at them in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my indignation that employed myself several days to find out
pro 1- places to put m self in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and Iwent frequent]
to t e place itself, whic was now grown more familiar to me, and especially while m'imin
was thus filled with thc'flfhts of revenge, and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of em to
the award, as I may it; but the horrorI had at the place, and at the signals of the
barbarous wretches devouring one another, abated m malice.

Well, at length I found a. place in the side of the ' where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw any of the boats coming, and ' ht then, before they would be ready to come on
shore, convey myself unseen into thickets 315m, in one of which there was a. hollow large
enough to conceal me entirely, and where I might sit and observe all their bloody doi
and take my full aim at their heads when they were so close the: as that it would
next to impossible that I should miss my shoot, or that I could i ' wounding three or four of
them at the first shoot.

In this lacc, then, I resolved to fix my design, and accordin ly I pre ared two muskets
and my 0 in fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a race of use each, and four
or five smaller allots, about the size of pistol-bullets, and the fowlin -piece I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot of the largest srze. I also loaded m'y pistofs with about four bullets
each; and in this posture, well provided with ammunition or a second andthirdchargs, I
p myself for my expedition. ~

r I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and in my imagination put it in practiw,
I continually made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle,
asIoalledit. abontthree miles ormorc, to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea,
co ' near the island or standing over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty
after had for two or three months <<instantly kept m watch, but came always back without
any discovery, there having. not in all that time been least appearance, not only on or near
the shore, but not on the w ole ocean, so far as my a ea or glasses could reach every way.

AslongasI he t up my dailytour tothehillto oolront, so lo alsoIkeptnpthevigour
ofmydesignnm in spiritsseomedtobeallthewhileina ' frameforsoon eons
an execution, as'the filling twenty or thirty naked savages, for an ofience which I not
at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further than my passions were at
first fired by the honor I conceived at the unnatural custom of the poop e of that country,
who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in His wise dis ition of the world. to have
no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitia passions; and consequent!
were left, and perhaps had been for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
dreadful custom, as nothing but nature, entirel abandoned of Heaven, and actuated by some
hellish de eraoy, could have run them into; at now, when, as I have said, I began to be
weary of e fruitless excursion which I had made so In , and so far, every morning in vain;
so in opinion of the action itself began to alter, an I began, with cooler and calmer
thong ts, to consider what it was I was going to engage in; what authority or call I had
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals. whom Heaven had
thought fit for so many ages tn snd'er, unpunished, to go on, and to be. as it were. the
executionsrs of His judgments upon one another; also, how far thesebmle were offenders
againstme,andwhatrightIhadto inthe narrelofthat whichtheshed
promiscuously one upon another. I de ' very o with myself thus : How do know
whatGodEimselfjudgesinthis 'cularoase? Itiscertain thesepeoledonotcommit
this as acrime; itisnot against eir own consciences reproving, or: their ' ht reproaohing
them. They do not how it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance o divine justice,
as we do in almost all the sinswe commit. Theytliinkitnomoruacrimetokill a captive
takeninwar,thanwedotokillanox; nortoeathumanhah,thanwedotoeatmutton.

When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily, that I was oertainlyin the wrong
in it; that these people were not murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them in
my thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers, who often put to death the

here taken in battle, or more frequently, upon man occasions, put whole troops of men
5 the sword, without giving quarter, though; threw wn their arms and submitted.

In the next place, it occurred to me, al 't the usagethsy gave one another wasthns
bruta'sh and inhuman, yet itwas really nothing to me; these people had done me no injury:
that if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my immediatoflpreservation to fall 11 1:
them, something might be said for it; but thatI was yet out of air power, and they
really no knowledge of ms, and co neatly no design upon me; and therefore it could not be
'nst for me to fall a them: that ' would justify the conduct of the Spaniards, in all their

rbarities ' in America, where they destroyed millions of these people, who, however
the were idolaters and harbariauaand had several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs,
an as sacrificin human bodiesto their idols,wereyet,as totheSpanmdaveryinnocent
peo le; andthat heroo' them ontof thsoountry is _ken of with the utmost abhorrsnce
an detestatien, even by e Spaniards themselves, at time, and byall other Christian
nations of Europe, as a mere hatchery, a. bloody and unnatural opiece of cruelty, unyushfialile
eitherto Godorman; andauch,as orwhiohtheveryname _ a Spaniard isreckonsdto
be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of Christian compasmon; as if the
kingdom of S ' were particularly eminent for the product of a. race of menqvho were without
perinoiplcs oi darness, or the common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to

amarkofageneroustem inthemind. '

Theseconsideiations yputmetoa andtoahndofafnllstop;and1_began
bylittls and little to he ofi' myd ' an toconoludeIhadtaksn awrongmeasnre in my
resolutionstoattacl: the savages; titwasnotmybnsinesstomsddlewiththem,unl_ess

l
they first attacked me, and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent; but that. if I
were discovered and attacked, then I knew mighty.

0n the other hand, I argued with myself, t this really was the way, not to deliver myself.
but entirel to ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one that not
only shonl be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, it but
one of them escaped to tell their count -people what had happened, they would come over
again by thousands to reven the den of their fellows; and I should only bring upon
in self a certain destruction, w 'ch at prmnt I had no manner of occasion for.

pen the whole, I concluded that neither in principles nor in policy, I ought one way or other
to concern myself in this afi'air: that my business was by all possib e means to conceal myself
from them and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by, that there were any living
creatures upon the island--I mean of human shape.

Bali 'ou joined in with this prudential, and was convinced now many ways that I was
perf y out of mi duty, when I was laying all m bloody schemes for the destruction of
innocent creatures. mean innocent as to me; as to crimes the were guilty of towards one
another, I had nothing to do with them; they were national, and ought to leave them to the
justice of God, who is the governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments, to
make a just retribution for national offences, and to bring public judgments upon those who
ofi'end in a public manner, by such wa. s as best please Him.

This a poured so clear to me now, at nothing was a greater satisfaction to me. than that I
had not a sud'ercd to do a thin which I now saw so much reason to believe would have
been no less a sin than that of will murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble
thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness, beswching Him
to grant me the protection of His Providence,that I miglfinotfnll into the hands of barbarians;
or that I might not lay in; hands upon them, unless I a more clear cell from Heaven to do
it in defence of my own ' e.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this: and so im- was I from desiring
an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that in all that fime I never once wentu the
hill to see whether there were an of them in sight, or to know whether any of them been
on shore there or not; that I mi t not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or be provoked by any a vantage which might present itself, to fall u n them; only
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I had on the other side the is d, and carried
it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove which I found
under some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents. the savages durst not,
at least would not, come with their boats upon any account whatsoever.

With my boat I can-led away everything that I had left there belolzgiing to her, though
not necessary for the bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail, which I made for her, and
a thing like an anchor, but, indeed, which could not be called either anchor or grep ling:
however, it was the best I could make of its kind. All these I removed that there mig t not
has theale'alst shadow of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon

cos n

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom went from my
cell, other than upon my constant employment, viz., to milk my she-goats, and manage my
little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was quite out
of danger: for certam' it is, that these savage pimple, who sometimes haunted this island, never
came with any thoughts of finding anth ore, and consequently never wandered off from
the coast; and I doubt not but they might ve been several times on shore, after my appre-
hensions of them had made me cautious, as well as before; and. indeed I looked back with some
horror upon the thoughts of what in condition would have been, if I had chopped upon them,
and been discovered before that. when naked and unarmed, except With one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot. I walked everywhere, pee ing and. peepr about the
island, to see what I could get: what a rise should I have n in, it, w en discovered
the print of a man's foot, I had instead of t t seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them
pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping them!
 

The Life and Admin": ofRabim'm Cmoc. 81

The htsofthissometimessuukmyverysonlwithinme,anddistresssdm mindso
much, that could not soon recover it; to think what I should have done, and owI not
only should not have been able to resist them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done; much less what now, after so much consideration and
preparation, I night be able to do. Indeed, alter serious thinking of these things. I should be
very melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great while; but I resolved it at last all into
thankfuluess to that Providencewhieh had delivered me from so mauyunseen dangers, and had
kept me from those mischiefs, which I could in no way have been the nt in delivering
myself'eromgfm I beagle-not the least notion of any such thing depending' ,or the least
su on i possi

I ' renewed a contemplation, which often had come to my hte in former time, when
firsthe toseethemercifnl ' 'fionsofHeaven,inthe rswernnthreughin
this life; ow wonderinll we are d 'vered whenwe knownothingo it: how,wheuwe are
in a quandary (as we it), a doubt or hesitation, whether to go this way or that way, a
secret hint shalldirect us thiswny, whenweintended to go thatwny; nay, when sense, our
own inclination, and per s business, has called to go the other way, yet a strange impression
upon the mind, from we w not what springs, and by we know not what power, shall
ov rnleusto thiswoy;anditshallafterwaidsappear,thathadwegonethatwuy
w h we shoul have gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone. we should
have been ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like redections,I afterwards made it a
certain rule with me, that whenever I found thew secret hints, or pressings of my mind, to'
doing or not doing anything that resented, or to going this way or that we , I never failed
to obey the secret dictate; thou h knew no other reason for it, thauthat su a ressure, or
such a hint, hungu n my ' I could give many examples of the success of t ' conduct
in the course of my 'e; but more especially in the latter pert of my inhahitiirg this unhappy
island: befides many occasions whic itis very likely I might have taken notice of, it I
seen with thesame eyes thenthatIsawwithnow. But it isnover too late to bewiae; and
I cannot but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary
incidents as mine. or even though not so extraordinary. not to slight such secret intimation of
Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligenm they will. That I shall not discuss,
and perhaps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and
the secret communication between those embodied and those unembodied; and such a proof as
can never be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some very remarkable instances,
in the remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.

Ibelievethe reader of thiswillnotthinkitstrangeifI confess that these anxieties,
these constant rs I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put an errd to all:
invention, and to the ooutrivsnces that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon in hands than that of my
food. Icured notto 'vsanail, or cho a stick of wood now, orfeer the norseIshould
make should be heard; much less won] I fire a gun, for the same reason; and above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which re Visible at a

t distance in the day.shon1d betray me: and for this reasonIremoved that partof my
mine" which required lire, such as burning of pole and pipes, arc, into my new apartment
in the woods; where, after I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a
more natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage,
had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed, would any
man else, but one who. like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe reheat. .

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a t rook, where, by more accident,
Iwonldsay--if Ididnotsceanshundantressontoascrr allsuch things nowtaPrevrdence
-Iivsscu ' down some thick branches oftrees to_make charcoal;aud.befiore1goon,I
must observe e reason ofmy making this charcoal. which was thus:--

I was afraid of makin a smoke about menhabitetiomas Isaidbedore; and yetIcould
not live there without 555>>; my bread, coo ' g mymeat_,&os,soIcorih1ved toburn some
woodheie,asIhadseendonernEnglend,nnderturf,trllitbecameohark.ordrycoel;

r
and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to home, and perform the other
services which fire was wantingnflor at home, without danger o smoke.

But this is by the bye. ile I was cutting down some wood here, I ived that
behind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind 0 hollow place.
I was curious to look into it, and getting with dificnlty into the mouth of it, I found It was
pro large, that is to say, sudicient for me to stand upri ht in it, and perha a another with
me; utI must confessto you, I made more haste out t n I did in; when coking farther
into the lace, and which was perfectlyl dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
whether dhvil or man I knew not, whic twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's
mouth shining directly in, and making the reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call myself athouaand fools,
and tell myself, that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty ears in
an island all alone, and that I durst to believe there was nothing in this cave t was
more frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a great firebrand,
and in rushed again, with t e stick amin in in hand. I had not gone three ate
in, but I was almost as much frightened as was fore; for I heard a very loud sig ,
like that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of words half-
expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a
surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it that my hair might not have lifted it oil: But still, plucking up my spirits as well as
I could, and encouraging in self a little with considering that the power and presence of God
was everywhere, and was ab e to protect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by the
light of the firebrnnd, holding it up a little over in head, I saw lying on the ground a most
monstrous frightful old he-goat. just making his wi , as we say, and gasping for life, and dying
indeed of mere old a .

I stirred him a litt e to see if I could get him out, and he essayed to get u , but was not able
to raise himself; and I thought with myself he might even lie there, or ' he had frightened
me so he would certainly f 'ghten any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy as
to come in there while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise. and began tole round me, when I found the cave
was but very small; that is to say, it mightbe about twelve foot over, but in no manner of
shape, either round or s uare, no hands over having been employed in m ' it but those of
mere nature. I obscrv also that there was a place at the farther side 0 it that went in
farther, but was so low that it required me to creep ripen my hands and knees to go into it,
and whither I went I knew not; so, having no can e, I ve it over for some time, but
resolved to come again the next day rovided with candles an a tinder-box, which I had made
of the lock of one of the muskets, wit some wild-fire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day, I come provided with six large candles of my own making (for I
made rery good candles now of goat's tallow), and going into this low place I was obliged
to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten ards, which, b the way, I thought was a.
venture bo d enough considering that I knew not ow far it mig tgo, nor what was beyond
it. When I was got through the streight I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near
twenty foot: but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say. as it was, to
look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave. The walls reflected a hundred thousand
lights to me from my two candles. What it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other
precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppose it to be, I knew not.

The place I was in was a. most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind as could be eigected,
though perfectly dark. The floor was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose grav upon
it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen. neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or root; the only difficulty in it was the entrance. which, however, as
it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience, so
that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to brin some of
those things which Iwas most anxious about to this place; particularly I resolv to bring
hither my magazmo of powder and all my spare anus, viz., two fowling-pieces (for I had three
in all) and three muskets (for of them Iliad eight in all); so I ke at my castle onl five,
which stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmoat ence, and were read; also
to take out upon any expedition.

l_I u this occasion of removing my ammunition I took occasion to open the barrel of powder
who I took up out of the sea, and which had beenwet,and I found that the water had
penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on every side, which, coking and growing

rd, hsd'prescrved the inside like aksrnel in a shell, so that I had near sixty pound of very
goodpow erinthecentre ofthecashandthis was snagreeablediscoverytomeatthat
time, so I carried all away thither, never keeping]: above two or three pound of powder with me
infea'castleforfearofs surpriseofanykin . alsocarrisd'thitheralltheleadlhad leit for

II

I cied myself now like one of the ancient ' ts, which are said to live in caves and holes
in e rocks, where none could come at them, or I persuaded myself while I was here, if five
hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out, or, if they did, they would not
venture to attack me here.

The old goat, who I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave the next day after I made
this discovery; and I found it muc easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in, and
.coverhim withearth,thau todraghim out; so listened him there,to prevent oifenceto my
nose.

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this island, and was so "tin-dined to the
place and to the manner of living that, could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no ea es
would come to the lace to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitulated or
spending the rest my timsthere,eventothelastmoment,filll hadlaidmedowuanddied.
11 e the old t in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made e time pass more leasantly withme agreatdealthan it didbefore; as, first. I
had taught in Poll, as I noted ore, to speak, and he did it so familiarly, and talked so
articulately an plain, that it was very pleasant to me, and he lived with me no less than six-
aud-twenty years. How long he might live afterwards I know not, thoxh I know they have
a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years. Perhaps poor 1' me be alive there
still, selling after poor Robin Crusoe tothis day; I wish no Englishman the -luek to come
there andhearhim: butifhe did, hewould certainlybelieve itwas the devil. Mydegwas a
ve pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen. gears of my time, and than
(ii of mere old age; as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have 0 rved, to that degree, that
Iwasobligedtoehootseverel of them at Mtskeepthemfmmdevounn meandallIhsd.
But at length, when the two old ones I brought with me were gone, an after some time
eontinuall driving them from me. and letting them have no revision with me, they all run
wild into woods, except two or three favourites, which I kep tame, and whose young, when
they had any, I always drowned, and these were part of my family. Besides these, 1 always
fist two or three household Eds about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand; and I

also more parrots which talked retfiyl well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but
none like my first; nor, indeed, did I tfie e pflns with any of them that I had done with
him. I had also several tame sea fowls, whose names I know not. who I caught upon the
shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes, which I had planted before my castle well,
being now up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees. and bred
there, whi was very agreeablotnme, sothat, aeI saidabove, Ibegauto hevery well
contented with the life I led, if it might but have been muted from the dread of the savages.

'But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all pie who shall meet
with my to make this just observation from it, viz. How frequen y, In the coume of our
lives. the ' whichin itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen auto, 18 the
most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or doorof our deliverance, by which alone
we can be razsed in from the aflicfionweuefalleninto. 'Icouldgiveman examples of
this mthe course myunaccounteble life; butinno ' wasrtmorepartieularyremarkahle
thanmthecucumstancesofmylastyearsofsolitery encemthisislaud. . _

Itwas nowthomonthofDeeember, as I said abominmytwenty-thudyear; smith-bang

!
the southern solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest, and
required my bein pretty much abroad in the fields; when ing out pretty early in the
morning, even ore itwas thorough daylight, I was surp ' with seeanga ' ht of some
fire upon the shore, atadistance from me 0 about two nu es, towards the end 0 the island,
where I had observed some savages had been, as before; but not on the other side : but to my
great afiiction, it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribl surprised at the ' ht, and stopped short within my ve, not daring
to go out, lest I might surprised; and yet had no more peace within, from s ap rehensions
I had, that if these savages, m rambling over the island, should find my corn stun ng, or cut,
or any of my works and im rovements, they would immediately conclude that there were
people in the place, and we d then never give over till "mil found me out. In this
extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the er after me, having made
all things without look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence. I loaded all
my cannon, as I called them, that rs to say, my mushets. which were mounted upon my
new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp; not
iorgettia seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly were to
God to eliver me out of the hands of the barbarians; and in this posture I continu a at
two hours, but began to bc mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send
out.

After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I was not able to
bear sitting in ignorance longer; so setting up my ladderto the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place, as I observed before, and thcnfulling the ladder up after me, I set it u
again, and mounted to the top of the hill; an ailing out my perspective glass, which
had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my lly on the ground, and began to look for
the lace. I presently found there was no less than nine naked sav es sitting round a small
fire t ey had made; not to warm them, for they had no need of that. e weather being extreme
hot; hut, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh which they had
brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon the shore; and as it was
then tide of ebb. they seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is
not easy to imagine what confusion this si ht put me into, especially seeing them come on my
side the island, and so near me too; but w on observed their coming must be always with the
current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in in mind, being satisfied that I
might go abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if t ey were not on shore before;
and having made this observation, I went abroad about my harvest work with the more
composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the westward, I saw them all
take boat, and row (or paddle as we call it) all away. I should have observed, that for an
hour and more before they went of, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glasses: I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but
that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them; but whether they
were men or women, that I could not ' ' ish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone. tool: two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols
at my girdle, and in great sword my side, without asca bard; and with all the speed I
was able to make, went away to t e hill, where I had discovered the first a dpearanee of all.
And as soon as I got thither, which was not lessthantwo hours (forI can not 0 space,
being so loaded with arms as I was . I perceived there had been three canoes more 0 savages
a: that place; and loolu'ng out 1' er, 1 saw they were all at sea together, making over for
t c man.

This was a dreadful sight to me, especial] when going down to the shore, I could see the
marks of horror which the dismal work they 11 been about had left behind it, via. the blood,
the bones" and part of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured b those wretchee
with mernment and sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight. {hat I began now
to prcmelitate the destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be who or how many
soever.

It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus make to this island are not very
frequent; for it was above fifteen months before any more of them came on shore there again; '
that is to say, I neither saw them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time; for
as to the rainy seasons, then th are sure not to come abroad, atleastnot safer: stall
this while I lived uneomfortsblyflry reason of the constant apprehension I was in their
coming upon me I) surprise; from whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more
bittertllan the su ering, especially if there is no room to shake ofi that expectation or those

apBrehensione.

uring all this time, I was in the murdering humour; and tool: up most of my hours,
which should have been better employed. in contri ' how to circumvent and fall u in
them the very next time I should see them; es ' (y it should be divided, as ey
were the last time, into two parties; nor did I consi or at , that ifI killed one party.
suppose ten or a damn, I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and
so another, even at infinite>>, till I should be at length no less a murderer than they were
in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so.

I spent my days now in great laxity and anxiety of mind, ' that I should
one day or other tall into the hen 0 these merciless creatures. And it did at anytime
venture abroad, it was not without looking round me with the greatest care and caution
imaginable; and now I found to my t comfort, how happy it was that I provided
for a tame flock or herd of ts; for I urst not, upon an account, tirem gun, especially
near that side of the islau where they usually some, lest should alarm savages; and
if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have them come back again, with perhaps
two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then I knew what to expect.

However, I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any more of the
savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true they might have
been there once or twice, but either the made no stay, or, at least, I did not hear them, bath:
the month of May, as near as I could eulate, and in my {Osmond-twentieth year, I had a very
strange encounter with them, of which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen months' interval was very great.
I slept nnquiet. dreamed alwa s frightful dreams, and often started out of in sleep in the
night. Inthe day greattroub so overwhelmed my mind; and in thenight I ed often
of killing the savages, sndthereasonswhy Imig tjustifythe doing of it. But towaive all
thisforawhilaitwasinthe middle aim ,on the sixteenthda ,Ithink,aswellasmypoor
woodeucslmduwouldreekomforImark alln nthepost ' ;Isay.itwasthssixteenth
of May, that it blew a very great storm of win all day, with a great deal of lightning and
thunder, and a very foul night it was after it. I know not what was the particular occasion of
it; but as Iwas reading in the Bible, and taken up with v serious thoughts about my
present condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I ought, fired at see._

Thiswas,tnbesnre,nsurprise ofaquite different naturefiomanthadmetmthhefore;
for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the
greatesthasteimaginable; andinatricecla pedmyladdertothe middle ofthemchand
pulled it charms, and mounting it the secon time, got to the to . of the ; the very moment
thataflashof firebade me listenforasecondgun, which according! in abouthalfaminntel
heardmndbythe soundhnewthat it washomthatpartoftheseew ereIwasdnvenoutwith
the current in my boat

I Immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, and that theyhad some
comrademr some other ship in com y,andfired these guns for signals of distresaand to
obtarnhel . Ihadthispresenoeo mmdatthatminuteastoflfinhthattho hIoould
notholpt m,itmayhetheymight he] me; soIbroughtlogetherallthe woodI
could gstat hand, and mah'ngatgoodhan me pflaIeetitonfireuponthe hill: thewood
was dry.s.ud blazed fieely, and "3]: the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt tairiy out,
thathasoertarmitthmwuanyln thingssashimthsymust needs-es it,andno doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and afier that several
others. all from the same Quarter. I plied my fire all night ion ,till day broke; and when
it was broad. day, and the air cleared up, I saw somethin at a. grea distance at see, full east of
the island; whether a sail or a hull I could not distinguis , no, not with my glasses, the distance
was so t, and the weather still something hazy also ; at least it was so out at sea.

I loo ed frequentltymat it all that day. and soon perceived that it did not move; so I
presently concluded t it was a ship at an anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took in gun in my hand, and run toward the south side of the island, to the rocks,
where I had been ormerly carried away with the current; and getting up there, the weather by
this time being ectly clear, I could plainly see, to m great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast
away in the nig t upon those concealed rocks which found when I was out in my boat; and
which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream,
or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering then from the most desperate, hopeless condition,
that ever I had been in in all my life.

Thus, what is one man's safet is another man's destruction; for it seems these men, whoever
they were, being out of their nowledge, and the rocks being who]! under water, had been
driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E. .E. Had they seen the
island, as I must necessarily su pose th did not, they must. as I thought, have endeavoured
to have saved themselves on s ore b t e help of their boat; but their firing of their s
for help. especially when they saw, as imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts. 1%.
Iimagmed that, upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their boat, and
have endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea go' g veryI high), they might have
been cast away: other times I imagined that they might have out t cir at before, as might
be the case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which many
times obliges men to stare or take in pieces their boat; and sometimes to throw it over-board
with their own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or ships in company,
who, u n the signals of distress they had made, had taken them u and carried them ofi :
otherw ' I fancied they were all gone 05 to sea in their boat, an being hurried away by
the current that I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishing; and that Erhaps they might by this time think of
starvin , and of bein in a condition to eat one auo er.

As these were at conjectures at best, so, in the condition I was in, I could do no more
than look upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which had still this good effect
on' my side, that it gave me more and more cause to 've thanks to God, who had so happily
and comfortably provided for me in my desolate con 'tion; and that of two ships' companies,
who were now cast away 'u n this part of the world, not one life should be but mine.
I learned hero afiainn to o rve, that it is very rare that the providence of costs us into
any condition of e so low. or any misery so great, but we may see something or other to be
thankful for. and may see others in worse circumstanws than our own.

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could not so much as see room to
suppose mg of them were saved; no ' could make it rational, so much as to wish or expect
that they 'd not all 'sh there, except e possibility onl of their being taken up by another
ship in company: an this was but mere possibility inde ; for I saw not the least signal or
appearance of any such thing.

cannot explain, by any possible energy of words. what a strange longing or banker-in of
desires I felt in my soul upon this sight; breaking out sometimes thus: 0 that there (1
been but one or two--nay, or but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to me, that
I might but have had 'one companion--one fellow-creature to have spoken to me, and to
haveconversed with! In all the time of my solitary life I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep 8. regret at the want of it.

There are some secret moving sprin s in the afiections, which. when they are set a going by
some object in view, or be it some 0 'eet though not in view, yet rendered present to the
mind by the power of imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its Impetuosity to
such violent eager embraoings of the object, that the absence of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings, That but one man had been saved! "0 that it had
been but one I " I believe I repeated the words, " 0 that it had been but one ! " a thousand
times; and my desires were so moved by it, that when I spoke the words, my hands would
clench together, and my fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had had any soft thing
in in hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my head would strike
teat er, and set against one another so strong. that for some time I could not part them again.

I the naturalists lain these things, and the reason and manner of them: all I can say to
them is, to describe the act, which was even surprising to me when I found it, though I knew
not from what it should proceed; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong
ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow-
Christians would have been to me.

But it was not to be; either their tote, or mine, or both. forbid it; for till the last year of my
being on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of that shi or no; and had only
the afliction some days after to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on re, at the end of the
island which was next the shipwreck. He had on no clothes but a seaman's waistcoat, a pdr
of open-knead lined drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to
guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight, and a
tobacco-pipe: the last was to me of ten times more value than the first. .

Itwnsnowcalm,andIheda mindtoventumontinmybcattothiswrechnpt
doubting but I might find some ing on board that might be useful to me: butthat did
not altogether press me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not onl save. but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree: and this thought ung so to my eart,ihat Icoulil not be quiet night nor
day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this wreck; and committing the motto
Godmrovidence, I thought the impression was so strong upon in mind, that it could not he
resi , that it must come from some invisible direction, and I should be wanting to
mselgfghgidnotgoem_ ' Ihasteedbaclrfo cast! pared rythi f

n r wer o impression, n m e, pre eve n or
in voyage, topgk a quantity of breed, a great pot for fresh watzr, a compass to steer by, .a gottle
o ruin (for I had still a great deal of that left),a basket-full of raisins: and thus leading myself
with eve 'ng necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water out of her. and got her afloat,
loaded my cargo in her, and then went home again for more. My second cargo was a great
hag--full of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another large pot-full'of
fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or barley cakes, more than beforeflwith
a bottle of goat's milk. and a cheese; all which, with greet labour and sweet, I brought to my
boat; and praying to Godto direct my voyage, I put out, and rowi or peddling the canoe
alonfithe shore, I came at last to the utmost int of the island on t side, viz. NE. And
now was to launch out into the ocean, and sit r to venture or not to venture, I looked .on
the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island, at a distance, and which
were very terrible to me. from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and in
heart began to fail me; for I foresaw, that if I was driven into either of these currents,
should be carried nvastway out to sea, amrhaps out of my reach or eight of the island
:gufuaaufitlrtthenmsmyhoetwnshut ,ifanylittlegalsofwindshouldnserhould

mevrte est.

These thzughts so 0 pressed my mind, that I began to give over my enterprise; and having
hauled my boat into a ttle creel: on the shore, I stepped out. and satine down upon a little
rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage;
when, as Iwas musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and_the flood come on.
upon which my going was for so many hours in issuable. Upon this it resently occurred
to mathatlsheuld uptothehi best iece o groundIcoul find,ai_ido ' went I could.
howthesetaof then eorCnmnts y,w entheflood camethAtImiggtindgewhethei-nf
I was driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another way me, with the same
reprdness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in m head, but I cast in eye upon a
little hill which sudiciently overlooked the sea both ways, on from whence I a clear View
of the currents, or sets of the tide. and which way I was to guide myself in in return. Hero
I found, that as the current of the ebb set out close by the son point 0 the island, so
the current of the flood set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing
to do but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morning to set out with the first of the
tide; and repom'ngI myself for the night in the canoe, under the t watch-coat I mentioned,
I launched out. made first a. little out to sea, full north, ' I began to feel the benefit
of the current, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so
hurry me as the southern-side current had done before, and so as to take from me all govern<
ment of the boat; but having a strong steer-age with my peddle, I went at a great rate
directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at; the ship, which by its building was Spanish, stuck fast,
jammed in between two rocks: all the stern and quarter of her was beaten to pieces with the
sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her main-
mast and foremost were brou ht by the board, that is to say, broken short off, but her bow-
sprit was sound, and the he and bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, a dog
appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, elped and. cried, and as soon as I called him.
jum into the sea. to come to me: and took him into the boat, but foundhim almost
dea for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate like a ravenous wolf
that had been starving a fortnight in the snow. Ithen gave the poor (>th some fresh
water, with which, if I would have let him, he would have burst himself.

Afier this I went on board ; but the first sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is
indeed probable, that when the ship struck. it bei in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so
continually over her, that the men were not able to it, and were stran led with the constant
rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been under water; besi es the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life, nor any goods that I could see, but what were iled by
the water; there were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brand I knew not, w 'ch lay
lower in the hold, and which, the water bein ebbed out, I could see; at the were too big to
meddle with. I saw several chests, which believe belonged to some of t e semen, and I
got two of them into the bout without examining what was in them. '

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore broken 05', I am ed I might
have made a good voyage; for by what I found in see two sheets, I room to suppose
the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and if I my guess I) the course she steered,
she must have been bound from tho Buenos Ayres, or the Rio e lo. 1' ate, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havauna, in the gulf of Mexico, and so perhapzdto
Spain. She had, no doubt. a gent treasure in her, but of no use at that time to any y;
and what became of the rest of er people I then knew not.

I found, besides them chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about twenty lons, which I
got into my boat with much dificulty: there were several muskets in o ea in, and a great

wderohorn, with about four pounds of powder in it; as for the muskets, I had no occasion
gr them, so I left them, but took the powder-horn; I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremel ; as also two little brass kettles, a. copper pot to make chocolate, and a grid-
iron; and with t ' cargo, and the dog, I come awa , the tide beginniu to make home again:
and the some evening about an hour within nig t, I reached the is d 88351:: weary and
fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved to harbour what I had
gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing mlyself, I got all
my cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars; the cask of liquor found to be a
kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good; but when
I came to open the chests, I found several things of great use to me: for example, I found in
one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine. and
very good; the bottles held about three pints each, and were ti pedwith silver. I found
two pots of very good succedes, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on to , that the salt water
had not_hnrt them; and two more of the same, which the water had ilcd. I found some very
fid shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen and. of white linen handker-
c 'eis, and coloured neckcloths . the former were alsovery welcome, bei exceedingly refreshing
to wipe my face in a hot day; besides this, when I came to the till inltfie chm, ound there
three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred piwes in all; and in
one of them. wrapt up in a pa r, sir donbloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold;
I suppose the mi ht all we' near a pound.

The other c found 1:5 some clothes in it, but of little value; but by the circumstances,
it must have belonged to the fgluuner's mate, though there was no wder in it, but about two
pounds of glazed powder in c three flasks. ks t, I suppose, for chzrgifi their fowling-pieces
on owasion. Upon the whole, I got very little y this voyage that was any use to me; for
astcthe money,Ihadnomanncr ofoccasionforit; itwas tome as thedirt nnderm feet;
and'I would have given it for thme or four pair of English shoes and stockings, whic were
things I greatly wanted, but had not had on in feet now for many years. I had, indeed,
gotten two pairo! shoes now, which I tool: 08 the set of the two drowned man whom I saw in
the wreck; and I found two ' more in one of the cheats, which were very welcome to me;
but they were not like our nglish shoes, either for em or service, being rather what we call
pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty ieces of or htin royals, but no
guild; I suppose this helongedto apoorer man than the other, w ' seemed to belong to some
0 oer.

Well, however, I logged this money home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that
before which I brought from our own ship; but it was t pity, as I said, that the other part
of the ship had not come to my share, for I am satisfi I might have loaded my canoe several
times over with money, which, if I had ever escaped to England, would have lam here safe
enough fill I might have come again and fetched it.

Havingnowbronghtallm thing-onshore. and securedthemeent becktomyboat, and
rowed or paddled her along 0 shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best
of my way to my old habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet; so I began to re
myselfilive after myold tashion,and takecareof m fiamilyafi'airs; andior a while I ved
easy enough, only that I was more vi ilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go
abroadsomnch;andi!atanytime didstirwithanyfreedomfit was alwa tothesast
of the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, where I conl go
withontso many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition, as I always carried with
me, if I went the other way.

I lived in this condition near two years more; but my unlucky bed, that was always t9 let
me know it was born to make my bod miserable, was all these two years filled with 11me
and designs, how, if it were possible, mi ht tawny from this island; for sometimes I was
for makin another voyage totbe wreck, ug myreaeon toldme. thatthere wasnothmghlgt
there worgrthe hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble on way, sometimes ano ;
andIbelieveverily,if I had the boat thatlwent from Salleein,Ishould have ventured to
sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. _

I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to those who are touched with that general

lagne of mankind, whence, for ought I know, one half of their miseries flow; I mean, that of
not being satisfied with the station wherein God and nature has placed them; for, not_t_o look
Mk upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my tether, the opposition to
which was. as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the samekrnd hadbeen
the means of my coming into this miserable condition; for had that Providence, which so
happily had seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with confined deans, and I_could '
havebsenccntented tohave neongradnallmeight havebeenbyflnshmaImeau mthe
tuneoimybein inthis' oneofthemostconsrorableplantersmtthranls;nay.Iam
Pemadcd.that theimprovementslhad made inthat httletimoIhved there,and the m-
crease I should probably have made if I had stayed, I mi ht have been worth a hundred thou-
sandmordores; and what business had I to leave a settl fortune, well-stocked plantation, rm-
Pl'onng andiaorcasing, to turn supercargo to Guinean fetcthgroee, whenpahance audtmo
would so have increased our stock at home, that we could have bought them at our own doors.
from those whose business it was to fetch them ? And though it had cost us something more,
yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard.

But as this is ordinanly the fate of young heads, so reflection upon the folly of it is as
ordinarily the exercise of more years. or of the dear-bought experience of time; and so it was
with me now; and yet, so dee had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could not
satisfy myself in my station, at was continually poring upon the means and possibility of
my escape from this place; and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring
on the rcmainin part of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my first
conceptions on e subject of this foolish scheme for my escape: and how and upon what
foundation I acted.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into my castle, after my late voyage to the wreck, my
frigate laid u , and secured under water as usual, and my condition restored to what it was
before. I he more wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer: for I had
no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the S niards come there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the our-and-twentieth year of in first
setting foot in this island of solitariness, I was lying in my bed or hammock, awake, an very
well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could b no means close my eyes, that is, so asto sleep: no, not a wink
all night long, otherwise than fo lows :--

It is as impossible as needless to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled
through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's time. I ran over the
whole history of In? life in miniature. or by abridgment, as I ma ca it, to my coming to this
island; and also 0 the of my life since I came to this islan In my reflections upon the
state of my case, since came on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture
of my aifairs in the first years of my habitation here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear,
and care, which I had lived ever since I had seen the print of afoot in the sand: not that I
did not believe the savages had frequented the island even all the while, and might have been
several hundreds of them at times on the shore there; but I had never known it. and was inca-
pable of an apprehensions about it, my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
some: and was as hep y in not knowing my danger, as if I had never really been exposed to
it; this furnished my ought: with many very profitable reflection, and particularly this
one :----How infinitely good that Providence is, which has provided in its overnmcnt of mankind
such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things; and thong he walks in the midst
of so many thousand dangers, the sight of w 'c , if discovered to him, would distract his mind,
and sink his spirits, he is he t serene and calm, b having the event of things hid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of ngers which surrouu him.

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to reflect serious] span the
real danger I had been in for so many years in this very island; and how I had waik about
in the greatest security and with all possible tranquillit , even when perhaps nothing but a. brow
of a hill. 9, great tree, or the casual approach of night, ad been between me and the worst kind
of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who would have
seized on me with the same view as I did of a goat or a turtle, and have thought it no more a
crime to kill and devour me, than I did of a pigeon or a cur-low; I would unjustly slander
myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with t humility, that all these unknown deliverances were due,
and without which I must inevita ly have fallen into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in considering the
nature of these wretched creatures, I mean, the savages; and how it came to pass in the world,
that the wise Governor of all things should ive up any of His creatures to such inhumani ,
na ', to something so much below even bru ity itself, as to devour its own kind: but as this
an ed in some (at times fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part of the
world these wretches lived in; how far 05 the coast was from whence they came; what they
ventured over so far from home for: what kind of boats they had ; and why I might not order
myself, and my business so, that I might be as able to go over thither as they were to come to
me.

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do with myself when I came
thither; what should become of me if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how I should
escape from them if they attempted me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to
rest: the coast. and not be attempted h some or other of them, without any possibility of
deliverin myself; and if I should not fal into their hands, what I should do for provision, or
whither should bend my course: none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way;
but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to the main
land. I looked back upon my present condition as the most miserable that could possibly
be; that I was not. able to throw myself into anything but death. that could be called worse;
that if I reached the shore of the main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief ; or I might coast
along, as I did on the shore of Africa, till I came to some inhabited country. and where I
might find some relief; and after all, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christian ship that
mi ht take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an
an to all these miseries at once. Pray note. All this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an
impatient temper, made, as it were, desperate :3 the lonmntinuanoe of my troubles, and
the disappointments I had met in the wreck I h been on rd of, and where I had been so
near the obtainin what I so earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to learn some
knowledge from o the lace where I was, and of the robable means of my deliverance. I say
I was agitated wholly y these thoughts. All my of mind in my resignation to Provi-
deuce, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had.
as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the pro'ect of avoyage to tho
malig; whrgglicame upon me with such force, and such an impetuosity o desire, that it was not
to resin

When this had agitated m thoughts for two hours or more, with such violence that it set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had been in a fever. merely with the
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with
the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep; one would have thou ht I should have
dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of anything relating to it; but I dream that I was ing
out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw u n the shore two canoes and van
savages coming to land, and that they brought with em another savage, who they were
going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to kill,
{lumped away, and ran for his life; then I thou ht in my sleep that he came running mto my

'ttle thick grove, before my fortification, to hi e himself; and that I seeing him alone, and
not perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him, that he heeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon
which I showed my ladder, made him go up. and carried him into my cave, and he becamemy
servant; and. that as soon as I had efiotten this man, I said to myself, _Now I may certainly
venture to the mainland; for-thief owwill serve meaeapilot, andwrlltellmewhattodo,
and whither to go for govisious, and whither not to go for fear of beiu devoured; what places
to venture into, and w t to ease I waked with this thought, an was under such inex-
pressible impressions of joy at e prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint.
meats which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding it was no more than a dream, were
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very great deJeotIon of spa-it.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only way to go about an attem t for an
esca , was, if possible, to gets savage into my possession; and, if possible. it sh d be one
of eir prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bun thither to kill; but
these thoughts still were attended with this ditficulty, that it was imposmh to affect this with-
out attschng a whole caravan of them, and killing them all; and this was not only a very des~
mm attempt. and might miscarry; but. on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the law-
_ ass of it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much b 3 though
it was for m deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against this,
they being 0 same mentioned before: but though had other reasons to oifer now, viz. that
those men were enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they could; that it was self-
preservah'on, in the highest degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acting
in my own defence, as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, thoug
these thin argued for. it, yet the thou hts of sh ding human blood for my deliveranw were
very terrih e to me, and suc as I could y no means reconcile myself to a great while.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself, and after t perplexities about
it (for all these arrnments, one we an another, strpfigled in my hen along time), the eager
prevailing desire o deliverance at gth mastered the rest, and I resolved," possible, to
get one of these savages into my hands, cost what it would: the next ' then was to con.
trive how to do it; and this indeed was very dificult to resolve on: but as could pitch u n
no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch to see them when ey
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as the opportunity
should present, let be what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as often as 1:19, and
indeed so often, tall I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a half I waited,
and for great part of that time went out to the west end, and to the south-west corner of the
island, almost every day, to see for canoes, but none ap : this was very discouraging, and
beganto trouble me much; though I cannot sa thsti did in this case, as it had done some
time before that, viz. wear ed the edge of my esire to the thing; but the longer it seemed to
be delayed, the more eager I was for it: in award, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight
of these sav and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them.

Besides, I cied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as
to make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their
being able, at any time, to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with
this adhir, but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages came near me for 33181:" while.

Abouta year and a half r I had entertained these notions, and by long musing, had, as'
it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them in execution, I
was surprised one morning early, with seein no less than five canoes all on shore together on
my side of the island, and the people who onged to them all landed, and out of my sight:
the number of them broke all my measures; for soein so man . and knowing that they always
came four, or air, or sometimes more, in a boat, I co d not what to think of it, or how to
take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men singlehsnded; so I lay still in my castle,
perplexed and disoomforted: however, I put myself into all the same tures for an attack
that I had formerly rovided, and was tjust ready for action, if anpthing presented. Havin
waited a good while, ' ning to hear i the made any noise; at engt bshilpf very impatient,
set my as at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top 0 the ' by my two stages,
as usn ; standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that they could
not perceive me by any means: here I observed, b the elp of m <<perspective lass, that they
were no less than thirty in number; that they ad a fire kin , that they had had meat
dressed; how they had cooked it. that I knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing
in I know not how many barbarous gestures and fi res, their own way, round the fire.

When I was thus looking on. them, I reeivelfu by tive two miserable wretches

ed from the boats, where, it seems, t e were laid by, an were now brought out. for the
slang ter. I perceived one of them immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose. with a
club or wooden sword, for that was their wa ; and two or three others were at work imme-
diately, cutting him 0 for their cookery, w ile the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should be y for him: in that very moment this poor wretch, seeing himself a little
at liberty, nature inspired him with he of life, and he started away from them, and ran
with incredible swiftness along the san , directly towards me, I mean, towards that part of
the coast where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frightened (that I must acknowledgf) when I apeerceived him to runrny way;
and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued the wh body; and now I
that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that a would certainly take shelter in myROBINSON CRUSOY. RESCUE FRIDAY.

Page 93.
grove; but I could not depend, any means, a ii my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the
other savages would not pursue 'm thither an find him there. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover. when I found that there were not above three men thatfollowed
him; an still more was I encouraged, when I found he outstript them exceedineg in running,
and gained ground of them, so that if he could but hold it for half an hour, saw easily he
would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I mentioned often at the firstpert
of my story, when I landed my cargoes out of the ship: and this I saw plainly he must neces-
sarily swim over, or the poor wretoh would be taken there; but when the savage esoa ing came
thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunged in, swam t ugh in
about thirty strokes, or thereabonts, landed, and ran on With exceeding strength and swittueu.
\Vheu the three persons came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the third
could not, and that. standing on the other side, he looked at the other, but went no farther;
and soon after went softly back again. which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
mom.

I observed, that the two who swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and
indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to get a servant, and perhaps a eomlplanion, or
assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to savethis poor creature's e. I im-
mediately ran down the ladders with all possible expedition, fetches my two guns, for they
were hot at the foot of the ladder, as I observed above; and getting up again with the same
haste to the top of the bill, I crossed toward the sea; and having a ve short cut, and all down
hill, cla ped myself in the way between the pursuers and the pnrsu , hallooing aloud to him
that ii , who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much frightened at me as I at them; but I
beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and in the mean time, I slow] ' advanced towards
the two that followed; then rushing at once u n the foremost, I knocked ' down with the
stock of my piece; I was loth to fire, because would not have the rest hear, though at that
distance it would not have been easily heard: and being out of sight of the smoke too, they
would not have easily known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other
who pursued with him stop , as if he had been fri htened, and I advanced a pace towsrds
him; but as I came nearer, perceived reseutly he a bow and arrow, and wasfitting it to
shoot at me; so I was then necessitat to shoot at him first, which I did, and lulled him_at
the first shoot The poor save e who fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen, and killed (as he thought , yet was so f ' huued with the fire and noise of my piece, that
he stood stock still, and neither came forw or went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined to fly still than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little we , then stopped again, and_then a httls farther,
and stopped again; and I could then rcsive t at he stood trem ling, as if he had been taken
prisoner, and had just been to be kill as his two enemies were. beckoned him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of euco eat that I could think of; and he came
nearer and nearer, kneeliu down every ten or tw ve ate in token of acknowledgment for
saving his life. I smiled at im and looked leasantly, and oned to him to some still nearer.
At leu he came close to me, and he en kneeled down again, kissed the and, and laid
his hen upon the ground. and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his b This, it seems,
was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and. made much of him, and
encouraged him all I could. But there was more work to do yet, for I perceived the same,
who I knocked down, was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come _to him E:
so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke
some words to me; and though I could not understand them, t I the ht they were pleasant
to hear, {0! they were the first sound of a man's voice that I . hea my own excepted, for
above twenty-five years. But there was no time for such reflections now; the savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that PI
sava e began to be afraid; but when I saw that I resented my other piece at the man. as if
woul shoot him: upon this my savage, for so I calf him now, made a motion to me to lead him
my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I did. He no sooner had it. but he runs
to his enemy, and at one blow out off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have
done it sooner or better; which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to believe,
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords. However, it seems, as I
learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard
that they will cut of heads even with them, ay, and arms, and. that at one blow too. When he
had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again,
and, with abundance oigestnres, which I did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the
savage that he had kill , 'ust before me. _

But that which astonis ed him most was, to know how I had killed the other Indian so far
01f: so intin tohim,hemude si sto me to lethim go to him: soIbadehim ,nswell
aslcoud. \ enhscametohim, estoodlikeone amazedJooki athim; turn himfirst
on one side, then on the other; looked at the wound the bullet made. which it seems was
just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed; but
he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead: he took up his bow and arrows, and came back:
so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might
come after them.

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them with sand, that they m' ht not
be seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made sign again to him to do so: e fell
to work, and in an instant he had scraped a. hole in the sand with his hands, big enou I:
to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered him, and did so also by e
other. I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour: then calling him away,
I carried him not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on. the farther part of the
island i soshlldid not let my dream come to pass in that part; m. that he came into my

vo or e ter.

guilcre I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, by .his running; and he ' refreshed him, I made signs
for him to go lie down and sleep, pointing to a place where I h laid a greet parcel of rice-
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature

la . down and went to sleep.
e was a. comcl , handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with straight, long limbs, not too
large, tall, and we -shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of a . He had a very
ood countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect. but seemed to have some ' very manly in
his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an Begun in his countenance too,
especiall when he smiled: his hair was long and black. not curl like wool; his forehead very
high an! large, and a great vivaeity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet not of an u 1y yellow nauseous tawny, as
the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are; t of a bright kind of a dun
olive colour, that had in it something ve agreeable. though not very easy to describe. His
thee was round and plump, his nose smal , not flat like the negroes, ave good mouth, thin
li , and his fine teeth, well-set, and white as ivory. After he had slum , rather than
mill? about half an hour, he wakcd again, and comes out of the cave to me, {or I had been
' ving my goats, which I had in the enclosure just b . When he espied me, he came run-
ning to me, laying himself down again upon the groan , with all the possible signs of an hum-
ble thankful sition, making man antic gestures to show it. At last he lays his head flat
upon the groan , close to my foot, an sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before;
and after this, made all the signs to me of so 'ection, semtude, and submission immble, to
let me know how he would serve me as long as e lived. I understood him in many ' , and
let him know I was very well leased with him. In a little time I to speak to him, and
teach him to speak to me; an first, I made him know his name sho d be Friday, which was
the do I saved his life: I called him so for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him to
so , ester, and then let him know that was to be my name; I likewise taught him to soy
" es" and " No," and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen
pot, and let him see me drink it beiore him, and sop my bread in it; and I gevehim a cake of
 

771: Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe. 95

mod to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and mode signs that it was very geod for

I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as it was da I beckoned him to come with
me, and let him know I would 've him some clothes; at which e seemed very glad. for he was
stark-naked. ' As we went by $12" where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to

the spot, and showed me the met that he had made to find them again, making signs to me
that we should dig them u again and eat them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my ,
abhorrenoe of it, made as ' I would vomit at the thoughts of it. and beckoned with my hand to ;
him to come away, which he did immediately with great submission. I then led him up to the '
top of the hill. to see if his enemies were gone, and pulli out my glass, Ilooked, and saw .
plainl the lace where they had been,hut no appearance of t m, or of their canoes; so that it
:fas pth'n t they were gone, and had left their two comrades behind them, without any search
teu om. '

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more courage, and con uently
more curiosity, I takes to man Frida with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with e bow
and arrows at his back, w 'ch I foun he could use very dexterously, making him carry one
for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched to the lace where these creatures m
been; for I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of em. When I came to the place, :
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sank within me atthe horror of the spectacle ; j
indmd, it was a. dreadful eight--at least, it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. I
The place was covered wit human bones, the and d ed with their blood, great pieces of '
flesh left here and there half-eaten, mangled. an scorch ; and, in short, all the tokens of the a
triumphant feast they had been making there after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands. and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of
the bodies; and. Frida , by his signs, made me understand that they brought over four prisoners
to feast upon; that of them were eaten up, and that he. poin ' to himself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great battle between them and their next ' 3, whose subjects,
it seems, he had been one of; and that :3 had taken a great number of prisoners, all which i _
were carried to several places by these had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon . p _
them, as was done here by these wretches up? those they brought hither. g l

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, nee, flesh. and. whatever remained, and lay them ' .5
togetheron ohea , and makeagreatfirenponit, nndbnrnthemallto ashes. I found Friday . '
had still a hankering stomach after some of the fiesh,andwas stills cannibdin his nature; but
I discovered so mac abborrence at the very thoughts of it. and at the least appearance of it,
lthetflhfedlurst not disco' ver it, for I had, by some means, let him know that I would kill him if

e o o it.

When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and there I fell to work for my man
Friday. And, first of all, I five him a air of linen drawerawhich I had out of the poor -
ner's chest I mentioned, and w 'ch I to in the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, tted
him very well; then I made him a 'erkin of goat's-skin, as well as in skill would allow, and I
was now grown atnlerablygood ' r; and. I ve him soap, which had made of share-skin,
ve convenient, and fashionable enough: an thus he was dressed, for the present, tolerably
wag, and was m' hty well pleasedtosee himselfalmoet aswell clothed as his master. It is true,
he went awkwa y in these things at first; wearing the drawers was very awkward to him. and
the sleeves of the waistcoat ed his shoulders an the inside of his arms; but a little easing
them, vzlficre he complained t ey hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he took to them
verv w

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I to consider where I should
lodge him; and that I might do wellfor him, and yet be perf y easy myself, I made a. little
tent for him, in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and
in the outside of the first; and. as there was a door or entrance_there into my cave, I madea
formslframed door-mend a doortoit of bouds,_an_d set it uprntha passage. alittle within
the entrance, and, comm door to open on the inside, I_barred_1t gaps in the night, taking in
myladderstoo,sothat ' y could no way cement me mthe ansr ofmyannemostwall.1
i

96 7/1: Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe.

without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs when me; Ker my first wall
had now a complete roof over it of long poles, coverinegkall my tent, and leaning up to the side
of the hill, whichwas again laid across with small sti a, instead of lathe, on then thatched
over a great thickness with the rice-straw, which was stro , like reeds; and at the hole, or
place which was left to o in or out by the ladder, I had 1) seed a kind oftra oar, which,
if it had been attemp on the outside, would not have opened at all, but we d have fallen
down and made a great noise; and, as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faithful, lovin , sincere
servant than Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs; periec y obliged
and engaged; his very afiections were tied to me like those of a child to a father, and I dare
say he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine u ii any occasion whatsoever. The
many testimonies he gave me of this at it out of don t, and soon convinced me that I
needed to use no precautions as to my ety on his account.

This fluently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that however it had

leased in His providence, and in the government of the works of His hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the
same reason, the same afiections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation. the same
passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all
the capacities of doing good and receiving good that He has given to us; and that, when He
pleases to ofi'erto them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready--no , more read --to
apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than we are. d this m e me
very melanchziy sometimes in reflecti , as the several occasions presented, how mean a use
we make of these, even though we ave these powers enlightened b the great lamp of in-
structiou,the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His Word, ad ed to our understand-
ing; and wh it has pleased God to hide the like savin knowledge from so many millions of
soullsh who, ' I might judge by this poor savage, wo d make a much better use of it than
we ( l .

From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the sovereignty of Providence. and, as it
were, arraigu the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that light
from some and reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but I shut it up, and
checked in thoughts with this conclusion :--First, that we did not know by what light and
law these ouldhe condemned; but that as God was necessaril , and by the nature of His
being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be but that, if t ese creatures were all sen-
tenced to absence from Himself, it was on account of sinning against that light which, as the
Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to be 'nst though the foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, that.
still, as we are all o my in the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to Him, Why hast Thou
formed me thus?

But, to return to my new companion. I was greatly delighted with him, and mode it my
business to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and hel ful; but
e ' l to make him s , and understand me when I spake: and he was e aptest
so olart t ever was; an particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased
when he could but understand inc, or make me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me
to tall: to him. And now in life began to be so easy that Ibegan to say to myself that,
could I but have been safe ron: more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from
the lace while I lived.

1} er I had been two or three days returned to m castle, I thought that, in order to bring
Friday elf from his horrid way of feedin , and from a relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought
to let him taste other flesh; so I took ' out with me one morninglto the woods. I went,
indeed, intendin to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring him one and dress it; but,
as I was go' 5, saw a she-goat laying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her.
leatelied hol of Fridn . "Eel ," said I, " stand still," and made 815118 to him notto stir;
immediately I prcson my piece, shot and killed one of the kids. he poor creature, who" 2- v .u v".-

   

271: Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe.

had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage, his decay, but did not know or could
imagine how it was done. was sensibly surprised, trembled and 00 ,and looked soamoeed that
I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed
it. but ri ped up his waistcosstto feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found. presently
thought was resolved to kill him, for he came and lrneeled down to me, and, embracing my
knees, said a great many thin s I did not understand, but I could easily see that the
meaning was to pray me not to him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no berm; and, taking him up by
the hand, laughed at him, and, pointin to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, which he did; and, while a was wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed. I loaded myogun again, and by and by I saw a great {owl like a hawk. sit upon
atree within shot; so, et Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him to me
:fgain, pointing at the fowl, fwhicdhtvzas indeed a psnohl'lthough Idthou ht tht had bezraaleliazk;

ea, intingto eparro an mygun,an totegronn uner eparro im
see Iviiihld make him fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird;
accordin 1y, I fired and bid himlooh, and immediately he saw the fell. He stood like
one f ' tened 'n, notwithstandingall I had said to him; and found hewas the more,
ems . because a did not see me put anything into the gun, but the ht there must be some
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill manages", bird, or anything,
near or far of : and the astonishment this created in him was such as could not wear ed for a
long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me and my
gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after; but
would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by himself, which, as
I afterwards leaned of him, was to desire it not to hill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch
the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead,
had fluttered a. good way 03' from the lace where she fell. However, he found her, took
her up. and brought her to me; and, as had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I
took this advantage to chargenthe gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might be
ready for any other mark t might present; but nothing more offered at that time: so I
brought home the kid; and the same eveninil took the skin of, and out it out as well as I
could, and, having a pot for that urpose, boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made
some very broth. After I to eat some, I gave some to my men, who seemed
very glado it. and liked itverywell; ut thatwhichwas strangesttohimwastosee mo eat
salt with it. He made a sign to methat the salt was not good to eat, and. putting a little into
his own month, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
with fresh water ufler it. On the other hand Iteok some meat in my month without salt, and
I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done atthe salt; but it
would not do, he would never care for salt with meat, or in his broth--at least, not a great
while, and then but a very little. .

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast him the next
day with roasting a piece of the lrid; this I did by hanging it before the fire in a. string,
as I had seen many people do in England, setting two poles np,ons on each side the fire
and one across the top, and tying the ' tothe cross stick, lo the meat turn con-
tinually: this Friday admired ve much; at when he came to the flesh, he tool:
so many ways to tell me how well 2e liked it, that I could not but understand him; and at
last he told me he would never eat men's flesh any more, which I was veryglad to hear.

The nextday Isethimtoworktobeatingsomecoruout. and sittingrtlnthemannerl used
to do, as I observed before; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after
hehadseenwhatthe m ' of itwas,a.udthat it was to mahebreed of; for efierthat I
lethim seems makem elifland bakeittoo. Andinahttletime Fndnywls sbleto do all
the work for me, as as I could do it myself. _

I began now to consider that having two months to feed instead of one, I
more ground for my harvest, and plant a largerquenhtyof cornthnn I need

i
marked out a. larger ieee of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before, in which
Nday not only wor ed very willingly, and very hard, but did it very cheerfully; and I told
him what it was for, that it was for corn to make more bread, because he was now with
me, and that I might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of
that part. and let me know that he thought I had much more labour upon me on his account
than I had for myself, and that he would work the harder for me, if I would tellhim what
to do.

This was the pleasantesttgear of all the life I led in this place. Friday a to talk
pretty well, and understand e names of almost everything I had occasion to for, and of
every place I had to send him to, and talked a. great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use for my ton e again, which indeed I had ve little occasion for before. that
is to say, about speech. Besi es the pleasure of talking to him? had a singular satisfaction in
the fellow himself; his simple, unfelgned honesty appeared to me more and more every day,
and I began really to love the creature; and on his side, I believe he loved me more than it was
possible for him ever to love any thing before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to his own country again; and
having learned him English so well that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked
him, whether the nation that he belon ed to never conquered in battle. At which he smiled,
and said, " Yes, es, we always fight t e better; that is, he meant, always et the better in
fight; and so we gun the following discourse. " You always fight the better! ' said I. " How
came you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?"

Friday. " My nation heat much for all that."

Master. " How beat 9 if your nation beat them, how came on to be taken?"

Friday. "The more many than my nation in the place w ere me was; they take one, two,
three, and me. y nation over beat them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my
nation take one, two. great thousan " .

Master. " But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your enemies P"

May. "They run, one, two, three, and me, and make go in the canoe; my nation have
no canoe that time." '

Mute-r. " Well, Frida , and what does your nation do with the men they take P Do
they carry them away, an at them as these did P"

_ Ihiday. " Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up." '

Master. "Where do the them '3"

Friday. " Go to other piece w ere they think."

Master. " Do they come hither ?"

My. " Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place."

Master. " Have on been here with them ?"

_&F')fiday. " Yes, I n here " (points to the N.W. side of the island which it seems, was their
si e .

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the savages who used to
come on shore, on the farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions that he
was new brought for; and some time after when I took the courage to carry him to that
side being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he
was there once when they ate up twenty men, two women, and one child. He could not tell
twenty in English, but be numbered them by laying so many stones in a row, and pointed to me
to tell them over.

I have told this passage because it introduces what follows-that after I had had this dis-
course with him, I asked him how far it was from our island to the shore, and whether the
canoes were not often lost? He told me that there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but
that after a little way out to sea,there was a current, and wind always one way in the morning,
the other in the afternoon.

This I understand to he no more than the sets of the tide, as going out, or comin in; but I
afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draught and reflux of e mighty
river Oroonoque; in the month, or the gulph, of which river, as I thought afterwards our
island lay; and this land, which I perceived to the W. and N.W., was the great island Trinidad,
on the north "point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand ueatiens about
the country, c inhabitants, the sea the coast. and what nations were near; a told me all
he knew With the greatest :fenness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations
othis sort of poo 1e, hut co 6. get no other name than Caribs; from whence I easily understood,
that these were Caribheee, which our maps place on the part of America which reaches
from the mouth of the river Oroonoqne to Guinea, and onwards to St.'hlartha. He told me,
that up a way beyond the moon, that was, be and the setting of the moon, which mnsthe

W. from t air country, there dwelt white-beard men, like me, and pointed to my great

whiskers, which I mentioned before; and that they had killed " much mans," that was his
word. By allwhich I understood he meant the S aniards, whose ornelties in America had
been spread over the whole countries. and was remem red by all the nations from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island, and get among those
white men. He told me, " Yes, yes, I mi ht $0 in two canoe." I could not understand what
he meant,or make him describe to mew t e meentbytwo canoe; till at last,with great
(lidiculty, I found he meant, that it must be in a large 1. boat as big as two canoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish ' me very well; and from this time I
entertained some hopes, that one time or other I might find an o porinnity to make my escape
from this place, and. that this r savage might be a means to he me to do it.

During the long time that 'day had now been with me. an that he began to speaktn
me, and understand me, I was not wanting?>> in a foundation of religious knowledge in his
mind; particularly, I asked him one time. W 0 made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked who was his father; but I took it by another
handle, and asked him, Who made the sea, the ground he walked on, and. the hills and
woods. He told me it was one old Beuamuckee that lived beyond all; he could describe
nothing of this great person but that he was va-y old; much older, he said, than the sea or
the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him than, " If this old person had
made all thin why did not all things worship him?" He looked very grave, and with a

'fectlooko innocence, said,"Alltlungs do say 0! tohim." I asked him ifthepeople who

'e in his country went away There? He said. "Yes, thg all went to Benamuckee."
Then I asked him, whether those ey ate up went thither too? a said, " Yes."

Fromthesethiu Ibeganto instruct him intho knowledge of thetrue God. I told him
that the t er of all things lived up there, pointing up towards heaven; that He
governs a world by the same power and. provident>> by which He made it; that He was
Omnipotent, could do everything or us, give everything to us, take every ' from us; and
thus, by degrees. I c ned his eyes. He listened with great attention, an received with
pleasure the notion 0 Jesus Chnst being sontto redeem us,audofthe mannerofmakrng
our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into heaven. He told me one day
that,iPSourGodcouldhearuabeyondthesunHemustneedsbea tesGodthantheirBenar
muckee, who lived buta' little way of, and yet could not hear ' they went '13 to the great
mountains,wherehedwelt,to speaktohim. I asked him if ever hewentthi ertospeakto
him. He said "No;" they never want that were young men; none went thither but the old
men, who he called their " Oowookakee"--that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or ele ; and. that they wantto ea "0!" (so he called as g'grayers), and then
came back and tol them what Bonamuckee sai By this I observed at era is priestcratt
even amongst the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the run-Id; and the policy of making a
secret religion, in order to preserve the venerafion of the peoalle to the clergy, is not only to
be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in e world--even among the most
brutish and barbarous savages. _ .

I endeavoured" clear-up this fraud to my man Friday, and. told him fhattha pretenceof
their old man going up to the mountains to say "Oh!" to their god Benamuckee was a cheat.
and. their bringing word from thence what he said wasmueh more so;_ that if they metwith
any answer, or spokewith anyonetheredt mustbewith an evil-plaza; and. thenIentered
intoalong drsco' ursewith him about thedevitheeongmal of him, rebellwnagamstGod,

o
his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be
worship d instead of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude
mankind?>> their ruin; how he had a secret access to our fission and to our all'ections, to
adapt his snares so to our inclinations as to cause us even to our own tempters, end to run
upon our destruction by our own choice. _

I found it was not so sea to imprint 8{fight notions in his mind about the devil as it was
about the being of a God. ature assi all my arguments to evidence to him even the
necessity of a great First Cause and over-ruling governing Power, a secret directing Provi-
dence, and of the ecluity anflustice of ying homage to Him that made us, and the like; but
there appeared not ing of this in t e notion of an evil irit--oi his original, his being,
his nature, and, above all. of his inclination to do evil and to w us in to do so too; and the
poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and innocent,
that I scarce lmew what to sa to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the power
of God, His omnipotence, His dful nature to sin, His being a consuming fire to the workers
of iniquity; how, as He had made us all, He could destroy us, and all the world in a moment;
and he listened with great seriousness to me all the while.

After this, I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and
used all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom
of Christ in the world, and the like: "Well," says Frida , "but you say God is so strong,
so great, is He not much strong, much might as the devil P ' " Yes, yes," said I, "Friday, God
is stronger than the devil: God is above the devil, and, therefore, we pray to God to tread
him down under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and uencli his fiery darts."
"But," says he again, "If God much strong, much might as the de ' why God no liill the
devil, so make him no more do wicked?

I was strangely surprised athis question, and after all, though I was now an old man, yet I
was but a young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist or a solver ofidifiicnlties: and,
at first. I could not tell what to say; so I pretended not to hear him, and ashel him what he
said? but he was too earnest Koran answer to forget his question: so that he repeated it in
the very some broken words as above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said,
"God will at last punish him severely; e is reserved for the Judgment, and is to be cast
into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlastiug fire." This di not satisfy Friday; but he
returns upon me, repeating my words, " Reserve at last! me no understand: but why not kill
the devil now, not k' great ago 9 " " You may as well ask me," said I, "why God does not
kill on and me, when we do wicked things here that ofi'end Him: we are preserved to repent
and pardoned." He muses awhile at this. "Well, well," so s he, mrgh afi'ectionately,
" that well; so on, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, pardon ." Here I was
run down in y him to the last degree, and it was a testimony to me, how the mere notions
of nature, t ough they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowlednc of a God. and of a. wor-
ship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the wusequencc 0 our nature: yet nothin
but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption are
for us; of a Mediator; of a new covenant; and of an intercessor at the footstoo of God's
throne: I say nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in the soul; and that.
therefore, the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the word of God, and
the Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of His le, are the absolutely neces-
Ba? instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of PS3.21, and the means of salvation.

therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man, ' ' up hastil , as upon
some sudden occasion of goizfiout; then sending him for something aw way off, l.y seriously

Eyed to God, that He we enable me to instruct savinglkyl the r savage, WGEK

Spirit the heart of the mignorant creature to receive a ligh of the knowledge
in Christ. reconcilinghim to ' self, and would guide me to so to him from the Word
of God, as his conscience might be convinced, he e es open and his soul saved: when he
came agmn to me, I entered into a long discourse wi him upon the subject of the redemption
of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel reached from heaven,
us. of repentance towards God,andfaithin our blessedLordJeeus; I enexplainedtohim.
as well as I could, wlay our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the nature of angels. but the
seed of Abraham, an how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, in all the methods I took for this poor
creature's rnstructron; and must acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the same rin-
ciple will find, that in laiirrgfl'hingI open to him, I really informed and instructed myseIf in
many things, that either did not ow, or had not fully considered before; but which occurred
naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them for the information of this poor savage:
and I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever felt before;
sothat, whethsrthis poorwild wretehwasthsbettsr for me or no.1hadgrsatreasontobethauk-
fnl that ever he came to me. My grief sat ' hter upon me. my habitation comfortable to
me beyond measure; and when I reflected at, in this solitary life which had been confined
to, I had not only been moved myself to look up to Heaven, and to seek to the hand that had
brought me there, but was now to be made an instrument, under Providence. to save the life,
and, for ht I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and hm to the true knowledge of
religion, an of the Christian doctrine, that he might know 0 ' Jesus, to know whom is life
eternal--I sa , when I reflected n u all these things a secret joy ran through every of my
soul, and I neatly rejoiced t ever I was brought to this place, whrch I so often
thought the most dreadful of all amictions that could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time, and the conversation which
employed the hours between Friday and I was such as made the three ears which we lived
there together perfectly and com letely happy, if any such thing as comp ete happiness can be
formed in a sublunary state. e savage was now a good Christian, a much Iter- than I,
though I have reason to hope and bless God for it that we were equally penitent, and comforted.
restored penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, and no farther oi! from His Spirit
to instruct than if we had been in England.

I always applied myself to readiugathe Scri ture, and to let him know, as well as I could,
the meaning of what I read; and ' , y his serious inquiries and questions. made
me, as I sard before, a much better ache in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever
have beeuby my own private mere reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from observing
here also, from experience, in this retired part of m life, vrz., how infinite and in 'ble a
blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and of the octrine of salvation by Christ esus, is so
p 'lyleiddown intheWordcf God,so easy to bereceivsdandunderstood.thst,asthebare
reading the Scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my du to carry. me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and layin he of a Samur-
for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and. obedience to God's commands,
and this without any teacher or instructor (I mean human), so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing Inn to be such a
Christian as I have known few equal to him in my life. .

As to all the disputes, wranglings. strife and contention, which has happened rn the world
about religion, whether niceties in doctrines or schemes of church government, they were all
pgfiectl useless to us, as, for aught I can at see, they have been to all the rest in the world.

e the sure guide to heaven, viz., the ord of God; and we had, blessed be (ind! comfort-
able views of the Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by Era Word, leadrngus into all
truth, and making us both willing and obedienttothe instruction of HisWord; and cannot see
the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points ru rehgrop, which have made
'"h ""ermli'mai't'hei'm'l' im'fini'm'" " " HS??? "in" 'L B" I m"

onwi e ' ri o ' eevery rnr 0 er.
goAftsr Friday and I been: more intimately acquainted. and that he could understand almost
all I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken English, .to me, I acquainted him with
myownstory,or atleastsomuehofitasrelatedtomyconrmgmto thephoahothsdhved
there, and how long. I lethim into the mystery (for such It was to him) of gun wdsr and
bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife. Which 13deg '88 wonderfnliy delight"
with; and Imade him a. belt with a frog hangingtort, snchasrnEnglaudweweurhangars.W 1"

It

102 77:; Life and Adventure: qf Robinson Crusoe.

in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly England, which I came from;
how we lived, how we worshi ped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in
ships to all parts of the world I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been on board
of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
before, and quite gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and which I could not
stir with my whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this
boat, Frida stood musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
upon. At ast, says he, "Me see such boat like come to place at my nation."

I did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I had examined further into it,
I understood by him that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore u n the country
where he lived--that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of was. er. I rmntly
imagined that some European ship must have been cast away upon their coast, an the boat
mig 1. get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thou ht of men making
escape from a, wreck thither, much less whence they might come, so I o y inquired after a
descri tion of the boat.

Fri :5 described the boat to me well enough; but brou ht me better to understand him when
he add , with some warmth, " We save the white mans m drown." Then I resent) asked
him if there were any " white mans," as he called them, in the boat. " Yes,' he sai , " the
boat full white mans. ' I asked him how man . He told upon his fingers seventeen._ I asked
him then, " What became of them ?" He tol me, " They live; they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined that these ' ht be the men
belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight of " my island," as I now it, and who,
after the ship was struck on the rock, an th saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves
in their boat, and were landed upon that wild s ore among the savages.

Upon this, I inquired of him more critically what was become of them. He assured me
they lived still there, that they had been there about four ears, that the savages let them
alone and gave them victuuls to eat. I asked him how i came to pass they did not kill
them and eat them. He said, " No; they make brother with them "--that is, as I understood
him, a truce--and then he added, " They no est mans but when make the war.fight"--that is
to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight with them and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time that, being on the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, from whence, as I have said, I had in a. clear day discovered the main or continent

-of America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main land.

and in a. kind of s rise falls a. jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him. asked him what was the matter. " 0 joy l" says he, "0 glad! there see
mg country, there my nation!"

observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes rkled,
and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a. mind to be in is own
country again; and this observation of mine ut a great man thoughts into me, which made
me at first not so easy about In new man 'day as I was hefore; and I made no doubt but
that, it Friday could get back to is own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion,
but all his obligations to me; and would be forward enough to give his countrymen. an account
of me, and come back perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon me,
:kwhich he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies when they were

en in war.

But I wronged the poor, honest creature very much. for which I was very sorry afterwards,
However, as my jealou increased and held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
and not so familiar and 'nd to him as before, in which I was certainl in the wrong too, the
honest, grateful creature having no thought about it but what consi of the best principles,

both as}. religious Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may he sure I was every day pumping him, to see i!
he would discover an of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found every-
thing he said was so onset, and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my sus-
sicion; and. in spite of all my uneasiness. he made me at last entirely his own '11, nor

'd he in the least perceive that I was nness , and therefore I could not suspect him 0 decei

One day, walking :3 the sums hill, but e weather being' hazy at sea so that we could not
see the continent. led to him and said, "Frida , do not you wish yourself in your own
country--your own nation P" " Yes," he " said, he much 0 glad to be at his own nation."
"What would you do there?" said I; " would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again,
and he as savage as you were before '1'" He looked full of concern, and, shaking his head, smd,
"No, no, Pride. tell them to live good, tell them to pra God, tell them to eat corn-bread,
cattle-flesh, mil , no out man again." "Why, then," sai I to him, "they will kill you." He
looked vs at that, and then said, " No, the no kill me; they willing love learn." He
meant y this they would be willing to learn. e added, " They learned much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat." Then I asked him if he would back to them~ He smiled at
that, and told me he could not swim so far. I told him I wo d make a canoe for him. He
told me he would go if I would go with him. "I go!" said I, "why, they will eat me it Ioome
there." " No, no,' as s he. "me make them no out you; me make they much love you." He
meant he would tell em how I had killed his enemies and saved his life, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told me. as well as he could, how kind the were to seventeen
white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore there in ' _

hem this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over. and see it I could possibly Join with
these bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubling but, if
I could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a
good com y together, better than I could from an island forty miles oi! the shore, and alone
without el . So. after some days, I took Friday to work again by warxlof discourse, an told
hiul Iwoul give him a boat to go backtohisowu naiion,and woo 'u lyIcarned' him to
my frigate. w 'ch lay on the other side of the island, and, having it of water (for I
always kept it sunk in the water), I brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.

I found he was a. moat dexterous fellow at managing it; would make it almost as swift and
fastagainasl could; so,when howas in,I said to him, "Well,now, ' y,shallwe go to
your nation?" He looked very dull at milsaying so, which. it seems, was because he thought
the boat too smallto go so tar. Itold 'm thenth obi r; so the next dawasntto
the place where the first boat lay which I had made, but whi I could not get into the water
He said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no cars of it, and it hadlaintwoor
three and twenty ears there, the sun had s lit and dried it. thatitwas inamannarrettsn.
Friday told me suc a boat would do very and would carry " much enough vittle, drink,
bread;"thatwushiswayoPStalking. . . _

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design oming over with him to the
continent, that I told him we would $0 and make one as big as t, and he shouldgo horns
init. Heanswerednotoneword,hut ookedvery veandsad. I asked him. what was the
matter with him? He asked me again thus, " y you augrymad vnth Friday? what me
done?" I askedl him what he meautPheI 17:11: hug":1 was not a; "irhfifihfl "No
angrymoan "sas e,repeatr.ug' t wo sev times." " ysen y meawa
to my natiogiiy" "h ," said 1, "Friday, did '51:: not say you wished you were theron
"Yes, yes." says he, " wish be both there; no wish 'day there, no master there." In a word,
he would not think of ing there without me. " I go there, Fridayl" sardI, "what should
I do there?" He turne'dovery quiokn nmeatthis. "You do great deal much good," says
he, "youteuch wildmaus be good, so r, tame mans; you tell themknow God, pray God,
and live new life." "Alas. Friday," said I, "thou knowset not what thou sayest; I am but
anigaorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says he, " u teaches me good. youjeoohee them
8091-" "Nome, Friday," said I, " ou shall gowi at me; leavemeherstohvehymyselt
asldidbefore." Helookedco agdnatthatwoflmdrunnmgtooneotthehatehets
whichhensedtewear,hetakesitap hastily,comes andgivesrtme. "What must I dowrth
this? " says I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must I kill on for? " said
I a in. He returns very quick, " What you send Friday away for? Take kill nday, no send
Fri ay awa ." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I
so laluly soovered the utmost afiection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him. that I
tol hilt?J then, and often afier, that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing to
sta wi me.

pen the whole, as I found by all his discourse is settled affection to me, and that nothing
should rt him from me, so I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country
was his:a in his ardent afiection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; athing
which as I had no notion of in self, so I had not the least thought, or intention, or desire of
undertaking it: but still I foun a strong inclination to my attempting an escape as above.
founded on the su position gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen bearded
men there; and, therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a
great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There
were trees enough in the island to have built a. little fleet, not of periaguas and canoes only, but
even of good largo vessels: but the main thing I looked at, was to get one so near the water,
that we mi lit launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first.

At last I'riday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew much better than I what ldnd
of wood was fittest for it; nor can I tell to this day what woodto call the tree we cut down,
except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same colour and smell. Frida was for burning the hollow or cavity of
this tree out, to make it into a boat: but I showed im how rather to cut it out with tools,
which after I showed him how to use. he did very handily; and in about a month's hard labour
we finished it, and made it very handsome, especially when, with our axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, however,
it cost us near a iortuight's time to et her along, as it were inch_by inch, upon great rollers
into the water; but when she was in, s e would have carried twenty men with great ease. '

"Then she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed me to see with what
dexterity and how swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her along;
so I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over in her? "Yes," he said, " he venture
over in her ver well, though great blow wind: " however, I had a. further design that he knew
nothing of, an that was to make a roast and sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As
to a must, that was may enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which
I found near the place, and which there was a great plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to
work to cut it down. and gave him directions how to she and order it: but as to the sail, that
was my paxticular care: know 1 had old sails or rat er pieces of old sails enough; but as I
had had them now twent -six years by me. and had not been "Id: careful to preserve them, not
imagining that I shoal ever have tais kind of use for them, I 'd not doubt but they were all
rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so: however, I found two pieces which appeared pretty
good, and with these I went to work and with a great deal of pains, and aw ward tedious
stitching (you may be sure) for want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered, ugly thing,
like what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a
little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships' long boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage; because it was such a one as I had to the boat in which I made my
escape from Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last work, viz., rigging and fitting my mast and sails :
for I finished them no complete, making a small stay, and a sail or foresail to it, to assist, if
we should turn to win ward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stem of her,
to steer with; and though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass. though, considering the many dull contrivances I had {or it that failed, I
think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what belonged to the navigation
of my boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing what
belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the more amazed when he saw me work the boat to-
and-again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail gybed, and filled this way or that way, as
thecoursewesailedchanged; Isa,whenhesawthis,hestoodlikeonesstoniahedand
amazed; however, with alittle use, made all these things familiar to him, and he became
an expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could make him understand very little of that:
an the other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in
these there was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen
I- ni t, and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons; and then nobody cared to stir
a ma , either by land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my czptivityr in this place; though the
three last years that I had this creature with me ought ra or to be left out of the account,
my habitanon being quite of another kind than in all the rest of my time. I kept the anniver-
sariy of my landing here with the same thankfnlness to God for His mercies as at first; and
if had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now, havin such additional
testimonies of the care of Prondence over me. and the great hopes I had of ing efi'ectually
and speed' y delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon in thoughts, that my deli-
verance was'at hand, and that I should not be another year in this p : owever, I want on
with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes, and
did every necessary thing as before.

The ' season was in the memfime upon me, when I kept more within doors than at other
times: so had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek,
where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and haling hern to the
shore, at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough hold
her, and just deep enough to give her water to float in; and then, when the tide was out, we
made a strong dam across the and of it. to keep the water out. And so she lay dry, as to the
tide, from the sea; and to keep the rain ofi', we laid a great many bonghs of trees so thick that
she was as well thatched as a. house. And thus we waited for the months of November and
December, in which I designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thou ht of mflesilgn returned with the
fairweather, Iwas preparing daily for the voyage; and s first ' g didwasto la. bya
certain quantity of provision, being the steres for the vo age; and intended, in a w or a
fortui ht's time, to o the dock, and launch out our t. I was busy one morning pfpon
some ' ofthisldn ,whenIcalledteFriday,andhidhimgotothesea-shore, and see ' he
could fin a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we generally once a week, for the sake of the
eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, w on he came running back, and flew
over in outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feeton;
andbe ore I had timetospeak tohim, hecriesoutte me, "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow!
0 bad l" " What's the matter, Friday P" said I. " O yonder there," says he, "one, two, three
canoe! one, two, three!" By his way of speaking I concluded there were six, but on inq
I found there were but three. " Well, Friday," said I, " do not be frightened ;" so I hearten
him up as well as I could. However, I saw the p23 fellow was most terribl . sealed; for
nothing ran in his head but that they were some to k for him, and would cut an in pieces,
and eat him, and the poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to do wrth him. I
comfortedhim as well as I could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," said I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them; can
you fight, Friday P" " Me shoot," says he, " but there come man great number." " No
matter for that," said I 'n, " our guns will ' hten them that we not kill." So I asked
him. whether, it I resolv to defend him he wo d defend me, and stand b me, and do "eat as
I bid him? He said, " Me die, when you bid die, mustan" so I went and etched a good dram.
oirum.andaSSavehim,for1hadbeenso ahubwdofmynmthatlhadagreatdcalleft.
When he h drunk it, I madehimtake etwo fowlin -pieces whichwe always carried, and led
them with large swan-shot as big as small pistol-bulls Then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs, and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with_ a brace a!
bulletseach. Ihungmygrsatmorduundnakedbymyddeandgavoh'ridayhrshatehst.
When I had thus prc red myself, I took my perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the
hill, to see what I ecu discover; and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-
twenty savages, three prisoners. and three canoes. And that their whole business seemed to. be
the tnamphaut bout set upon these three human bodied--a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing
else more than as I had observed was usual with them.

I observed also that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday made his
escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood came close
almost down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down sin to Friday, and told him I was
resolved to go down to them, and kill them all; and asked ' if he would stand b me. .He
was now gotten over his fright, and his spirits bein a little raised with the dram had given
him, he was very cheerful; and told me, as before, " e would die when I bid die."

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms which I had charged, as before, between
as. I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I
took one pistol, and the other three in self; and in this posture we marched out. I took a small
bottle of rum in m ocket, and gave riday a large bag with more powder and bullet; and as
to orders, I charg film to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot. or do anything till
I bid him, and in the meantime not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass to
my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood; so that_I
might come within shoot of them before I could be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it
was easy to do.

. While I was making this march, my former thoughts returnin . I began to abate my resolu-
tion. I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their nuni r; for as they were naked.
unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them--nay, though I had been alone. But it
occurred to my thoughts, what call. what occasion, much less what necessity I was in,to go
and dip my hands in lood, to attack people who had neither done or intended me any wrong;
who, as to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster, being in
them a token indeed of God's having left them, with the other nations of that part of the
world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take upon me
to he a judge of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice. That whenever he
thought fit He would take the cause into His own hands, and by national vengeance punish
them, as a people, for national crimes ; but that in the meantime, it was none of my business.
That it was true, Friday m' ht justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of
war with those very rticu or people, and it was lawful for him to attach them; but I could
not say the same wi respect to me. These things were so warmly resscd upon my thoughts
all the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place myse t near them, that I mi ht
observe their barbarous feast, and that I would not then as God should direct; but that era
somethin ofi'ered thatwas more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.

With is resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible wariness and silence (Friday
following close at my heels) I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood. on the side whic
was next to them; only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree which was 'ust at the corner of the wood, I
bade him go to the tree, and brin ms word if he could see fliers plainly what they were doing.
He did so, and came immediately k to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there;
that they were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and that another lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them, which he said they would kill next, and which tired all
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded
man whom he had told me of, that came to the country in the boat. I was tilled with horror
at the very naming the white<besrded man, and going to the tree, I saw lainly, by my less, a
white man, who lay u n the beach of the sea, with his hands and his est tied with dogs or
things hke rushes; an that he was a European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than
the place where I was, which"?! going a little way about, I saw I might come at undil-
covered, and that then I sho be within half shot of them; so I Withheld my passion.

"4':
though I was indeed on to the highest d : and going back about twenty paces. I got
behind some bushes, which eld all the way till came to the other tree, and then came to a
httle rising ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to loss; for nineteen of the dreadful matches sat n the

and all close huddled together, and had just sent the other two to butcher t 0 poor

hnstian, and hung him, perhaps limb by limb. to their fire; and they were stooped down
to untie the bands at his set. I turned to ls'riday; "New, Friday," said I, "do as I hid
thee." Friday said he would. "Then. Frida ," says I. " do exactly as you see me do; tail
in .nothln ." So I set down one of the runs eta and the fowling-prscs upon the ground, and.
Frida di thelikeb his; and with the other musket I took in airn atthe savages, bid '
him 0 the like. on askin him if he was ready, he said, " es." "Then fire at them,
said I; and the same moment fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he shot. he killed two of
them; and wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one. and wounded two. They were,
you may be sure. in a dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not hurt, jump'ed up
Egon their feet, but did not immediately know which way to run, or which wt: to loo ; for

ey knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his e es ose upon me,
that as I hedbid him, he might observe what I did; so as soon uths shotwas made,
I threw down the piece and took up the iowling-piece. and Frida did the like. He sees
one cock, and present; he did the same again. "Are you ready. ' P"saidI. "Yes."
says he. "Let flathen,"said I,"inthe name of God;" andwiththat fired again am)
the amazcdwreto es, and so did Friday; and as our piews were now losden with what
called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two drop; but so many were wounded.
that they ran about yelling and ac ' like mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably
wounded most of them; whereof three more ell quickly after, though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking up the musket,
which was yet loaden; " Follow me," says I, which he did with a great deal of courage. Upon
which I rushed out of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close at my feet. As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do sotoo; and
runnin as fasten I could, which by the way was not very fastbeing loaden with arms as
I was,gI made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or
shore between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were 'ust .'ng
to work with him, left him, at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in uteri-i la ght
tothe see-sidemnd had jum into a canoe,andthree moreoftherestmadsthe sameway.
IturuedtoFr-iday, and bid 'm ste forwards. and fire at them; he understood me imme-
diately, and running about forty y s to be near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had
killed them all; for I sesthem all tell of a heap into thebos.t,though I saw two of them
pp again quick] . However he killed two of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay down
Inthsbottomciytheboumsifhshadbeendead.

While my man Friday fired. at then, I pulled out m knife, and cutthe dagsthat bound
the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet I lii him up, and asked him in the Portu-

ese ton e, what he was? He answered in Latin. Christians; but was so weak and

'tthat econldaearcestsndorspeak. Itookmyhotfleoutofmypockstsndgavert him,
makin signs that he should drink. which he did; and I guve_him a piece of bread which he
ate. enIaskedhim,whetcountr-ymanhewas9 udhedespagnole; and,be_ingahttle
recovered. let me know. by all the ' no he could possibly make, how much he was in :iyldebt
for his deliverance " Seignior," mdli with as much Spanish asI could make u _"we_ talk
afierwards, but we must fight now. If you have an strength left. take pistol and
sword, and lay about you." He took them very thankful y, and no sooner had he the arms in
his hands. butasifthsyhadpntnswvigour into him,hsflew uponhremurderershkenfnry,
and had enttwo of them in pieessinaninstantfiorthetruthmasfliswholewuasnrpnes
tothem.scthepoor mahusswsresomuoh 'htenedmthths noise of our paecesthatthey
fell down for mere amusement and fear,.and no more power to attempt their own escape -
thantheirflcsh hadto rssistourahot; andthatwutho caseofthoosfivsthatl'ndaylhotat
ill: the. bipat, for as three of them tell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with
e ng t.

I kept my 'pieee in my hand still, without firing. being willin to kee my charge ready,
because I ha given the Spaniard m pistol and sword; so I called to I: 'day. and had him
run a to the tree from w once we rst fired, and fetch the arms which lay there, that had
been ischarged, which he did with great swiitness; and then giving him my musket, I sat
down myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted. While
I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of
the savages, who made at him w1t one of their great wooden swords, the same weapon that
was to have killed him before. if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and
as brave as could be imagined, though weak. had taught this Indian a good while, and had
cut him two great wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout lust fellow, closing in
with him, had thrown him down (being faint), and was wringing my swo out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undemoet, wisely quittin his sword, drew the pistol from his
girdle. shot the savage through the body, and killed im upon the spot, before I, who was
running to help him, could come near him. '

Friday, being now left at his libert , pursued the flyin wretehm with no weapon in his
hand but his hatchet; and with that o dcspatched those me, who, as I said before, were
wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with. And the Spaniard
coming to me for ages, I ve him one of tho fowliag-pieees. with which he pursued two
of the savages, and wound them both; but as he was not ableto run, they both got from
him into the wood, where Frida pursued them, and killed one of them. But the otherwas
toonimblo for him; and thong in was wounded yet had plunged himself into the sea, and
swam with all his might od' to those two who were sit in the canoe, which three in the canoe.
with one wounded who we know notwhethcr he died or no, were all that escaped our hands
of one-aud-twenty. The account of the rest is as follows :--

3 Killed at our shot from the tree.

2 Killed at the next shot.

2 Killed by Friday in the boat.

2 Killed by ditto, of those at first. wounded.

1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.

3 Killed by the Spaniard.

4- Kiltlhed, being dropped here and there of their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of

em.
4- Eseaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead.

21 in all.

Those that were in the canoe. worked hard to t out of gnu-shot: and though Friday made
two or three shot at them, I did not find that shit any of them. Friday would fain have
had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
esca )e, lest cu ing the news home to their people, they should come back, perhaps, with two
or t ree ban 0 their canoes, and devour as y mere multitude. So I consented to pursue
them by sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and beds Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe. I was so rised to find another poor creature lie there
alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spania was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with
fear, not knowing what the matter was. For he had not been able to look up over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard, neck and heels. and had been tied so long that he had
really little life in him.

I immediately out the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had bound him with, and
would have helped him up; but he could not stand, or speak, but groaned most piteously,
behaving, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and
pulling out. my bottle, made him give the poor wreteh a dram, which, with the news ofhis being{ delivered; revived him. and he sat up in the boot; but when Friday come to hear

him a . , and look in his face, it would have moved any one to tears, to have seen how Friday
him, embraced him. hu him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced. sung,
then cried again, wrung hishsn , beat his own fees and head, and then sung and jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what wasthe matter; but when he came a. little to himself, he told me that
it was his father.

. It was not easy for_me to express how it moved me, to see what ecstasy and filial afiec-
tion had worked in this 1' savage. at the sight of his father, and of his bein delivered from
death; nor indeed can describe half the extravagancies of his affection this- for he
went into the boat and out of the boat a t many fines: when he went in to him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast. on hold his father's head close to his bosom half
an hour ther, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiif with a binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what
31:] cafes Eggs, gave him some run out of my bottle to rub them with. which did them a great

o .

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages, who were now
gotten almost out of sight; and it was hsfdpyefor us thatwedidnot; for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and before thsg'oco gotten a. quarter of their way. and continued
blowing so hard all ni ht, and that m the north-west, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their t could live, or that they ever reached to their own coast.

But to returnto Friday; he was so I) about his father, that I could not find in my
heart to take him of for some time; but I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jnmgizig and laughing, and g eased to the highest extreme. Then I
asked him, if he had given ' father any breed? a shook his head, and said, " None: ugly
do eat all up self." . So I gave him a. cake'of bread out of a little pouch I carried on p as;
I so gave him a. drain for himself. but he would nottasta it, lint carried it tohis father.
in my pocket also two or three bunches of my raisins. so I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat,
and run away as if he had been bewitched. He ran at such a. rate (for he was the swifiest
fellow of his foot that ever I saw). I say, he run at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as
it were, in an instant; and though I called and hallooedtoo after him, it was all one; away he
went, and in a quarter ofau hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as he went;
and as he came nearer, I found his was slacker. because he had something in his hand.

When he came upto me, I foun he had been quite home for an earthen jug. or t,fo
bringhia father some fresh water; and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of read.
The bread he gave me. hutthe water he carried to his father: however, as I was very thi
too. I took a. little sup of it: this water revived his father more than all the mm or spirits
had 'ven him; for he was just fainting with thirst. .

enhis fatherhsddrunk,I called to him, to knowif therewasanywaterleft;_hesaxd.

"You" and I hadehiin giveittothe poorSponiard,whowasinas_much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed
v weak, and was rspoeing himself upon a greeneslsoe, under the shade of a tree, and whose
lim were also very stiff, and vs much swell with the rude bandage he had been tied
with: when 1 saw that upon ' y's coming to himwith the_wnter, he aatu aud'dr-ank,
andtookthobmdandbe to eat,Iwent to himand vo him s handful 0 meme; he
looked up in my face,wi allthe tokensof gratitude an thankfulness that could pearin
any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in fight,

thstheconld notstsndupupou hiafeet; hsu'iedto do ittwoorthreetimes, hutwss malls '

notablahissnkleswere so swelledandsopainfultohim- soIbsdehimsitstilLand
Pride tornhhisankles,endbathethe1nwithrum,ssheiisddonehisfuthsr's.

I ohservod the poor affeofionafe ensure every two minuteaor perhapI lees,allthe while
hewuheraturuedhiehesdsbonttoseeifhisfsthsrwssmthesameplseeand ureas
helofthiniaitting:andntlnsthefonndhowunottobo seen; atwhieh he up,and.

 

.. _' . 1.:A'.
without speaking a word, flew with that swiftuess to'him, that one could'scarce rceive his
feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he came. he only found he had aid himself
down to case his limbs: so Friday came back to me resentl ,and Ithen s e to the S niard
to let Friday help him up, if he could. and lead 'mto e boat, and en he shonl

him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him; but Friday, a lusty, strong fellow, too
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat, and set him down
softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted them
quite in, and set him close to his father, and present! stepping out again, launched the boat
ofi, and dlod it along the shore faster than I coal walk, the h the wind blew pretty hard
too; so e brought them both safe into our creek; and leavin t sin in the boat, runs nway'w
fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and as ed him, whither he went? He
told me, " Go fetch more boat; " so away he went like the wind; for sure never man or horse
ran like him, and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got. to it by land; so
he waited me over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but >
they were neither of them able to walk ; so that poor Friday knew not what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in m ' thought, and calling to Friday to bid them sit
down on the bank while he came to me. soon made a kind of handbarrow to lay them on,
and Friday and I carried them up both together upon it between us; but when we got them to
the outside of our wall or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before; for it was im-
possible to get them over; and I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work ' ;
and Friday and I, in about two hours' time. made a very handsome tent, covered wi old
sails, and above that with boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward fence. and
between that and the grove 0 young wood which I had planted: and here we made them
two beds of such things as I had; Viz. of good ricestraw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on,
and another to cover them on each bed. V

My island was now pled, and I thought myself very rich in subjects; and it was a
merry reflection which frequently made, ow like a kin I looked: first of all the whole
country was my own more $roperty; so that I had an an onhted right of dominion; 2ndly,
My people were perfectly sn jected. I was absolute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their
lives to me, and were read to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me; it
was remarkable, too, I be but three subjects, and they were of three difierent religions. My
man Friday was a Protestant, his father a pagan and a cannibal; and the Spaniard wasa
aapist: however, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions: but this is by

e way.

As soonasI had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and given them shelter, and a
place to rest them upon, I began to think of making some provision for them; and the first
thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling gout, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of in
particular flock, to be killed: when I cut of the hinder quarter, and, choppin it into sm
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very dish, I assure
you, of flesh and broth; having put some barley and rice also into the broth, and as I cooked
it without doors (for I made no re within my inner wall) so I carried. it all into the new tent;
and havini; set a table there for them, I sat down and ate my dinner also with them; and,
as well as could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being in interparger, especially
to his fathg, "(111. indeed, to the Spaniard too: for the Spaniard spo'e the snags of the
savages prc y we .

After we had dined, or rather an ped, I ordered Friday to take one of the canoes, and
and fetch our muskets and other Ere-arms. which, for want of time, we had left upon e
place of battle; and the next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages,
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive; and I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast. which I knew were pretty much, and which I could
not think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which
he pnnctnally performed, and defaced the very appearance of the savages being there; so that

when} went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversationwith mytwonewsubjeets; and firstIset
Friday to inquire of his PSather what hethought of theescape of thosavagesinthat canoe?
and whether we might expect a return of them with a power too great for us to resist? His
first opinion was, that the ea in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that

' ht they went off,but must, necessity, be drowned or driven south to those other shores,
w eretheywere as sure to be devoured, as they were to be drowned ifthey were cast away; but
as to whet they would do if they came safe on shore. he said he knew not : but it was his
opinion, that they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their beikrlifi attached, the
noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell their people they were all ' ed by thunder
and lightning, not by the hand of man; and that the two which ap via. Friday and I,
were two heaven] spiritsor furies come down to destroy them, an not men with weapons.
This, he said, he ew, because he heard them all cry out so in their language to one another;
for it was impossible for them to conceive that a man should dart fire, and speak thunder, and
kill at a distance. without lifting a the hand, as was done now. And this old savage was in
the ri ht, for, as I understood since y other hands, the savages never attem to go over to
the island afterwards. They were so terrified with the accounts given b ose four men (for
it seems they did escape the sea), that they believed whoever went to t enchanted island
would be destroyed wit fire from the

This, however, I knew not, and, srefore, was under continual apprehensions for a good
while, and kept always upon my I and all my army; for as we were new four of us,
I would have ventured upon a hun of them fairly in the open field at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the tear of their co ' were off, and
I began to take in former thoughts of a voyage to the main into wnsi "on, being
likewise assured b ' y's father, that I might spend upon good usage from their-nation
on his account, if would go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood, that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Ports see, who
having been cast away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at Iplifeizice, in , withths
savages. but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for e. I asked him all
the parh'sulare of their vo and found the were a Spanish ship bound from the Rio de la
Plata to the Eavsuna, being ' tedto leave eir loading there, which was chiefly hides and
silver,andto bring back what European goods the could meet with there; that they had
five Portu uese seamen on board, w o the; took on of another wreck; that five of their own
men were wned when first the ship was oat: and that these escaped fliroughinfinite dangers
and hazards, and arrived almost starved on the Cannibal coast, where they expected tohave
been devoured every moment.

He told me they had some arms with them, but they were perfeeflly useless, for that they had
neither wder or hell, the washing of the sea havin spoiled their powder, but a little
which ey used at their first landing to mile th ves some food.

I asked him what he thought would me of them there; and if they had formedmo
desi of making an escape P He said they had many consultations about it; but that having
nei ervleslsel, or too to build one, or provisions of any kind, their counsels always ended in
tears an eepair.

I asked him how he thought would mceive a proposal from me, which might tend
towards an escape; and whether, ' they were all here, it might not be done? _I told him
with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage o me,if I at mylifie in their
hands; iorthatgratitudewasnoiuherentvirtneinthenatureofmau, nordi menalwayssquare
their dealings b the obligations they had received, so much as they did by the advantages they
expected. I told im it would be very hard that I should be the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to he made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what accident soover,hroflhrmthither;
and that I had rather he delivered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, tall into the
merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into the inquisition. I added, that otherwise I
was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so many hands, build a barqus large
l 12 T In Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crmm

enough to carry us all away either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast
northward; but that if in requital they should, when I hadegut weapons into their hands,
carry me by force among their own people, I might be ill-us for my kindness to them, and
make my case worse than it was before. ' . _

He answered, with a great deal of candonr and ingenuity, that their condition was so miser-
able, and they were so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of using
any man unkind! that should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would

to them with e old man and discourse with them about it, and return again, and bring me
sir answer; that he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they
should be absolutely under my leading. as their commander and captain; and that the should
swear upon the holy sacraments and the Gospel, to be true to me, and to such hristiau
countr as thatIshonld etc, and no other; and to be directed who y and absolutely by
my 0 ere, till they were ded safely in such country as I intended; and that he would bring
a contract from them under their hands for that purpose.

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself that he would never stir from me as
long as he lived till I gave him orders, and that he would take my side to the last drop of his
blood, it there should hagfien the least breach of fiaith among his countrymen.

He told me they were of them very civil, honest men, and they were under the greatest
distress imaginable, having neither weapons or clothes. nor any food, but at the mercy and
discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and that he
was sure. if I would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me. _

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible. and tosend the
old savage and this S uiard over to themto treat; but, when he had gotten all things in
readiness to go, the pauiard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence in
it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be very well
satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put oil the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year.
The case was thus :-- '

He had been with us now about a month, during which time I had let him see in what
manner I had provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evi-
dentl what stock of corn and rice I had lain up, which, asit was more than saflicient for
myse , so it was not suflicient, at least without good husbandry, for my family, now itwas
increased to number four; but much less would it be sulficient if his coun men, who were, as
he said, fourteen still alive, should come over; and least of all would it be suficient to
victnnl our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to an of the Christian colonies of
America. So he told me he thought it would be more advisab e to let him and the two other
dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow; and that we
should wait another harvest. that we might have supply of corn for his ooun men when they
should come; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to ~nlr themselvcs
delivered, otherwise than out of one dilliculty into another. "You know," says he, " the
children of Israel,though they rejoiced at first attheir being delivered out of Egy t, yet rebelled
even against God Himself, that delivered them,when they came to want breediu the wilderness."

His caution was so seasonablc. and his advice so good, that I could not butbe ve well
pleased with his proposal. as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity : so we fell to digging, all
four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted, and in about a
month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had tten as much land cured and
trimmed 3 as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barle on, safesixteeu jars of rice, which was,
in short, the seed we had to s are; nor. indeed, di we leave ourselves barley suficient for
our own food for the six months at we had to expect our crop--that is to say. reckoning from
the tune we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in
the ground in the country.

Having new society enough, and our number being suficient to put us out of fear of the
savages, if they had come, unless their number had been very great, we went freely all over
the rslaud,_whersver we found occasion; and as here we had our esca or deliverance upon our
thoughts, rt was impossible, at least for me, to have the means it out of mine; to this:I:'v1-1rrn - ~~ - 1" ,. "u. . ,

 

27:: Life and Adriana": qf Robinson Crusoe. I I3

mrpose, I marked out several trees, which I thought fit for our work. and I setFriday and
' father to cutting them down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I hanged my
thought on that sfiair, to oversee and direct their work. I showedthem with what in tigeble
pains I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like, till
the had made about a dozen lar planks of oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long,
on from two inches to four inc es thick; w t prodigious labour it took up. any one may
imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase in little flock of tame goats as much as I could;
and to this purpose I made Friday and the niard to go out one da , and myself,with
Friday, the next da , for we took our turns; an by this means we got a ve twenty yo
kids to breed up wi the rest; for, whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and add
them to our flock; but, above all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such
a prodigious quantit to be hung up in the sun that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where e raisins of e sun are cured, we should have filled sixty or ' hty barrels; and these,
with our breed, was a great part of our food, and very good living too, assure you, for it is an
exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest. and our crop in good order. It was not the most plentiful increase I
had seen in the island; but, however, it was enough to answer our end, for from twenty-two
bushels of barley we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty bushels; and
the like in t1pliaroportion of the rice, which was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very p entifully have vietuelled our ship to have carried us to any part of
the world--that is to say, of America. When we had thus oused and secured our magazine of
corn. we fell to work to make more wickerwork--viz., great baskets, in which we kept it--and
the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this and often blamed me that I did not
make some things for defence of this kind of work; ha I saw no need of it. And now, having a.
full supply of food for all the guests I "feted, I gave the S iard leave to go over to the
main to see whet he could do with those a left be 'nd him are. I ve him a strict e
in writin not to bring any manwith him who would not first swear, infie presence of '
and thee dsa that he would no way inepre, fight with, or attack the person he should find
in the island, w was so kind to send for em in order to their deliverance; but that th
would stand by and defend him against all such attempts, and, wherever they went, we
be entirely under and subjected to his commands; and that this should be put in writing. and
signed with their hands. How we were to have this done, whenI knew they hadneithar
pen or ink, that indeed was a question which we never asked.

Under these instructions the Spaniard and the old savage (the father of Friday) went
away in one of the canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather were rcnght
in, when the come as prisoners to be devoured by the snag.

I gave eac of them a musket with a fir-clock on it, and at eight charges of powder and
ball, charging them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use either of them but upon

nt occasions.

is was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by meinviewofmy deliverance
for now twenty-seven years and some days. I ve them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes,
sufficient for themselves for many days, an suflicient for their countrymen for about eight
days time; and, wishing them a voyage, I see them 30. W with than about a
signal they should hang out at ' by which Ishuuld know an again, when they
came M. at a distance, before they came on shore. _

They wantaway withafair gale on the daythatthemoonwas stfnll--by mysoconnt, in
the month of October; but, as for an exact reckoning of days. aha! I had once lost it, I
could never recover it again; nor had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be
sure that I was right. though,as it proved when I afterwards slammed my account, I found I
had kept a true reckoning years.

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a strange and unforeseen
accident intervenedo! which the like has not, perhaps, been boards! in history. Iwas fast

I
aslce in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and called
alou , " Master, Master, the are come, they are come."

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove, which (by the way) was by this time grown to be a. very thick wood;
I say, regardless of danger, I went without my arms, which was not my custom to do; but I
was surprised, when turning in eyes to the sea, I preseutl saw a boat at about a league and
a haLf's distance, standing in or the shore, with a. shoul er of mutton soil, as they call it.
and the wind blowing prett fair to bring them in: also I observed presently, that they did.
not come from that side w 'ch the shore lay on, but from the southermost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lio close, for these were not the people we
looked for, and that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch m pers 've glass, to see what I could make of
them; and having taken the ladder out, clim up to the top of the hill, as I used to
sip" whegd I was apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer without being

we .

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plaiule discovered a ship 1 ing at an anchor,
at about two leagues and a half's distance from me, S.S. ., but not above a. sagas and a half
from the shore. B my observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boot
up to be an nghsh long-boat.

cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of seeing a ship, and one whom I had
reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen,nud consequently friends, was such as I
cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from whence
they came. bidding me keep upon my ard. In the first lace it occurred to me to con-
sider what business an En lish ship coal have in that part c the world; since it was not the
way to or from any part o the world where the English had any traflic; and I knew there had
been no storms to dnve them in there, as in distress; and that if they were English really, it
was most gobble that they were here upon no good design; and that I had better continue
as l was, u fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.

Let no man d ise the secret hints and notices of dam r, which sometimes are given him
when he may ' there is no possibility of its being . That such hints and notices are
given as, I believe few that have made any observations of things can dcn ; that the ' are
certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot ouht; and i the
tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are from
some friendly agent (whether supreme or inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and
that they are given for our good P

The present quesh'on abundantly confirms me in the jush'oe of this reasonin ; for had I not
been made cautious by this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see presently.

I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
looked for a creek to thrust in at or the convenience of landing; however. as they did not
come quite far can b, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but
run their boat on s ore upon the beach, at about half a. mile from me, which was very happy
for me; for otherwise they would have landed 'uet, as I may say, at my door, and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps, ave plundered me of all I had. -

When the were on shore. I was fully satisfied they were Englishmen, at least most of them:
onc or two thought were Dutch, but it did not tplrove so; there were in all eleven men, whereof
three of them I found were unarmed, and (as I ought) bound; and when the first tour or five
of them were Jumped on shore, they tool: those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of the
three I could rceive using the most passionate gestures of entresty, afliction and despair,
eyen to a lnn of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands some-
hmes, and appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.

I was rfcctly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the menu? of it should be.
Friday on led out to me in English, as well as he could, " 0 master! you see lish mans oat
pnsoners as well as savage mans." "Why," said I, "Friday, do you think y are going
to eat them, then P_" " Yes," says Fritz, " they will eat them." "No, no." said I, " Friday;
I am afraid they wrll murder them ind ; but you may be sure they will not eat them."

AllthrswhileIhadnothoughtof whatthematter reallywus. butstoodtremb ' with the
horror of the sight. expecting every moment when the three prisoners should be ed; nay,
onceI saw one of the villains lifi. uphis armwith a great cutlass (as the seamen call it) or
sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall every moment, at which
all theblood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins.

I wished heartrl now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was us with him; or that
I had any way to ave come undiscovered within shot of them, that might have rescued the
three men; for I saw no firearms they had among them; but it fell out to my mind another

we .

ther I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows ran scattering about the land, as if the wanted to see the country. I
observed, that the three other men had liberty to also w ere they pleased; but they sat
down all three upon the ground very pensive. and loo like men in despair.

This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore, and began to loolr ab0ut me;
how I gave myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me. what dreadful apprehensions
I had, and. how I lodged in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by wild beasts.

As I knew nothing that night of the upgly I was to receive by the rovidential driv'i e!
the ship nearer the an , by the storms an fide by which I have since so long nouris ed
and sup ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothi how certain of deliverance and
supply ey were, how near it was to them, and how efl y and reall they were in a con-
dition of safety, at the same time that the thought themselves lost. and air case des rate.

So little do we see before us in the worl , and so much reason have we to de mi c eerfully
upon the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures so abso utely destitute,
but that in the worst circumstances they have always something to be thankful for, and some-
times are nearer their deliverance than t ey imagine; nay. are even brought to their deliverance
by the means by which they seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high-water when these pee le came on shore, and while partly
they stood per-laying with the prisoners they brought, an partly while the rambled about to
see what kind cashew they were in,they had carelessly stayed till the 'de was spent and
the water was ob considerabl away, leaving their boat und. '

They had left two men in e host, who, as I found ards, having drunk a littletoo
much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the other. and finding
the boatteo test d for him to stir it, hallooed forths rest who were straggling about;
upon which they soon came to the boat; but it was past all their strength to launch har._the
boas being very heavy, and the shore on that aids being a soft my sand, almost like a quick-
san .

In this condition, like true seamen, who are, rhnps, the least of all mankind 'von to
foretho ht, they re it over, and away they aim ed about the country again; an I heard
one of tthan: say end to another (calling them off from the boat), " Why, let _her alone, Jack,
can't ye P she'll float next tide." By which I was fully confirmed in the mom inquiry, of what
countrymen they were. . '

All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir out of my castle. on further
than to my place of observation, near the to of the hill; and very glad I was, to it how
well it was fortified. I knew itwoe noless an ten hours before. the boat could be on float
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be more at liberty to see their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any. . . _

In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle, as before. though vnth morecautrou, kriowm
I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. ordered Friday also, whom

had made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself two
fowling-piecee, and I gave him three muskets; in figure, indeed, was vex fierce; I'had _my
sword by my side,

formidable goatrskin coat on, with the great cap have mentioned, a nah
tivropistolsrnmybelt,andaganuponear-.hshoraldel'2 .
n
It was my de ' , as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it was dark; but
about two o'clock, ing the heat of the day. I found that in short they were all gone straggling
into the woods, and, as I thought, were laid down to sleep; the three r distressed men too
anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however, set down uu or the shelter of a great
tree. at about a quarter of a. mile from me. and as I tho ht, out of sight of any of the rest

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them," learn something of their condition.
Immediate] I marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me
as formidab e for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as I did.

I came as our them undiscovered as I coal , and then, before any of them saw me. I called
aloud to them in Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen P"

They started up at the noise; but were ten times more confounded when they saw me, and
the uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them
'ust going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English. "Gentlemen." said I, " do not

surprised at me. Perhaps you may have a friend near you, when you did not expect i "
"He must be sent directly from Heaven, then," said one of them, very gravel , to me, and
gulling oi! his hat at the same time to me, " for our condition is past the help 0 man." "All
elp is from Heaven, sir," said I; " but can you put a stranger in the way how to hel you P
for you seem to me to be in some great distress. I saw on when you landed; and w en you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his
sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling, looking like one astonished,
returned, "Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel P" "Be in no fear
about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in; gray lay aside your fears. I
am a man--an Englishman--and disposed to assist you; you see have one servant only. _ We
have arms and ammunition; tell us recly, can we serve on P What is your case? "

"Our case," said he, "sir. is toolong to tell you, whie our murderers are so near; but in
short, sir, I was commander of that ship; my'rnen have mutinied inst me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and at last have set me on s ore in this desolate plaoe
--witli these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger--where we expected to
perish, believing the :lqu to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it."

" Where are those rates! your enemies?" said I. "Do you know where they are gone?"
"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. "My heart tumbles for fear they
have seen us, and heard you speak; if the have. the will csrtainl murder as all."

" Have the any firearms? ' said I. e answered. they had on y two pieces, and one which
they left in a boat _ " Well, then," said I, " leave the rest to me. I see they are all asleep;
it is an easy thing to kill them all, but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me
there were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to show an; mercy to;
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty. asked him
which they were? He told me he could not, at that distance, describe them, but he would
she my orders in anything I would direct. " Well," said I, " let us retreat out of their view
or eariug, lest they awake, and we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with
me, till the woods covered as from them.

"Look you, sir," said I. "if I venture upon your deliverance, are on willing to make two
conditions with me P" He anticipated my proposals. b telling me at both he and the ship,
it recovered, should be wholl directed and commanded y me in averytliin ; and if the shi
was not recovered, he woul live and die with me in what part of the wor d soever I woul
send him : and the two other men said the same.

"Well," said I, " my conditions are but two: 1. That while you stay on this island with
me, you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I at arms into your hands, you will
upon all occasions give them up to me, and do no preju 'ce to me or mine, upon this island,
and in the meantime to be governed by my orders.

"2. Tiiiie'eif the ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry me and my man to England,
passage ."7.- mrmw .w'w ---- 71".!" W21"? vgn'n' w- - . up, _. .._.. e.

 

.>> \'

I

 

T It: Life and A demure: of Robina>>: Crusoe. i i 7

He gave me all the assurance that the invention and faith of man could devise. that he would
comply with these most reasonable demands; and besides, would owe his life to me, and
acknowledaf it upon all occasions as long as he lived.

" Well, en," said I, "here are three muskets for on, with powder and ball; tell me next
what lyou think is pro r to be done." He show all the teetimon of his gratitude that he
was a le, but ofiered to wholl guided by me. I told him I thong t it was hard venturing
anything, but the best method could think of, was to fireupon them at once, as they lay;
and if any were not killed at the first volley, and ofiered to submit, we might save them, and
so ut it wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot.

said, very modestly. that he was loth to kill them. if he could help it; but that those
two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, stud
if they escaped we should be undone still, for they' would go on board. and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well, then, said I, "necessit legitimates my advice;
for it is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing him ill cautious of shedding
blood, I told him, thmhould go themselves, and manage as they found convenient.

In the middle of ' discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon otter we saw two of
them on their feet. I asked him if either of them were the men who he had said were the
heads of the mutiny? He said, "No." "Well, then," said I, "you may let them escape,
and Providence seems to have wakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now," sai I,
"if the rest escape on, it is your fan] "

Animated wit ' he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and pistol in his
belt, and his two comrades with him, with web man a piece in hishand: the two men, who
were with him, goiri first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned
about, and seeing em coming, cried out tothe rest; but it was too late then; for the moment
he cried out, they tired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece:
they had sowell aimed their shot at the men they knew. that one of them was killed on the
spot, and the other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and
called eagerliy for help to the other: but the captain, stepgimug to him, told him it was too
late to c or help; he shouldcsll upon God to forgive ' villuiny; and with that word
knocked 'm down with the stock of his musket, so that he never he more: there were
three more in the company, and one of them was also slightly wound ; by this time I was
come; and when they saw their dan er, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he won d re their lives, it they would give him any assurance
of their sbhorrsuce of the treachery they been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to
him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence
they came. They gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired; and he
was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not against; only I obliged him
to keep them bound hand and foot while the were upon the island.

While this was doing, I seut Friday wit the captain's mate to the boat, with oniers_to
secure her, and b ' away the oars and soil, which they did; and by-aud-hye,three struggling
men, that were (happ y for them) parted from the reet,came back upon hearing the guns red;
and seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they 81!me
to be bound also, and so our victory was complete. . _ '

It now remained that the ca tain and I should inquire into one another's circumstances.
I began first. and told him in w ole history, which he heard with an attention even for amaze-
ment, and particularly at e wonderful manner of my being furmshsd with provisions and
ammunition; and indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it afiectad him deeply -
but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preeerv
thereon purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men into my a rtmeut,
leading them in just where I came out. viz. at the top of the house; where Irefres ed them

with such rovisionsss I had, and showed them all the contrivsucee I had made during my

lou , long inhabiting that glues. . _
11 I showed them, all saidto them, was perfectly amazing; but shove all, the captain
admired my fortification; and how rfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of
trees, which, having now been lan near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a 'ttle wood, and so thick, that it was unpassable in "mart of
it, but at that one side where I had reserved in little windin passage into it: I told this
was my castle, and my residence; but that I ad a seat in t a country, as most princes have.
whither I could retreat up)" occasion, and I would show him that too another time; but at

resent our business was consider how to recover the shi . He agreed with me as to that:

ut told me, he was perfectly at a loss what measures to e; for that there were still six and
twenty hands on board, who harin entered into a. cursed conspiracy, by which they had all
forfeited their lives to the law, won d be hardened in it now by esperation; and would carry
it on, knowin that if they were reduced. the should be brought to the gallows as soon as
they came to ngland, or to any of the Englis colonies; and that therefore there would be no
attacking them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a re rational conclusion,
and that therefore something was to be resolved on very speedily, as wel to draw the men'on
board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing a n us, and destroying
us: upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a little while, the s ip's crew, wondering
what was become of their comradcs, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore "I their
other boat to see for them; and that then perhaps they might come armed, and be too strong
for us: this he allowed was rational.

U n this I told him, the first thing we were to do, was to stave the boat, which lay upon
the ach, so that they might not carry her of! ; and taking everything out of her, leave her so
far useless as not to be fit to swim; according] we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of her, and whatever else we onnd there, which was a. bottle of brandy, and
another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn ofapowdsr, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of
canvas; the sugar was five or six pounds; lwhich was very welcome to me, especially the
brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these thin on shore (the ears, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat,
were carried away before, as above), we mocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they hndcome
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry oi the boat. .

In ced it was not much in my thoughts. that we could be able to recover the ship; but m
view was, that if they went away without the boat, I did not much question to make her t
again to carry us away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my
ws ; for I had them still in my thoughts.

%hfl e we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main stron , heaved the boot
up upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float her oi! at big -wntcr mark; and,
besides, had broken a hole in her bottom, too big to be quickly sh , and were sat down
musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw or make a wait with her
ancient, as a signal for the boat to come on board, but no boat stirred; and they fired several
times, making other signals for the boat.

At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not
stir, we saw them (by the help of my glasses) hoist another boat out, and row towards the
shore; and we found, as the approached, that there were no less than ten men in her, and
that they had firearms with am.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view of them as they came,
and a plain sight of the men, even of their faces; because the tide having set them a little
to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where the
other had landed, and where the boat lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat; of whom he said that there werethree very honest
felltiwtz," :aho, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and

at that as for the hoatswain, who, it seems, was the chief oficer among them, and all the
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and were, no don t, made desperate
in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he was, that they would be too powerful
or us.

I smiled at him, and told him. that men in our circumstances were pestthe operation of fear;
that, seeini almost every condition that could be was better than that we were supposed to be
iu,_we ong t to expect that the consequence, whether death or life. would be sure to be a
deliverance. I asked him, what he thought of the circumstances of my life, and whether a
deliverance was not worth venturing for? " And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my
being preserved here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago P For
my part," said I, "there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the respect of it." "What is
that?" says he. "Why," said I, " itis that, as on se. , there are ree or four honest fellows
among them, which should be spared; had the heen of the wicked part of the crew, I should
have thought God's providence had singled t em out to deliver them into your hands; for,
depend upon it, every man of them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live, as
thezsbehave to us."

' I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged
him, so we set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the first up cc of the boat's
cgmingm from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners, and indeed secured them
e ectu .

Two oi them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Frida , and
one of the three (delivered men) to my cave, where they were remote enough, and out of
of being heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could have
delivered themselves. Here they left them bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them,
if they continued there gni y, to 've them their liberty in a day or two; but that if they
attempted their escape, ey a cold put to death without mercy. They promised faithfully
to bear their confinement with patience, and were very thankful that they had such good
mange as to have provisions. and a ' ht left them; for Friday gave them candles (such as we
in o ourselves) for their comfort; an they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them
at the entrance. '

The other prisoners had better us e; two of them were kept pinioned, indeed, because
the captain was not free to trust them, at the other two were taken Into my service upon their
captain's mommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so,
with them and the three honest men, we were seven men well armed, and I made no doubt we
should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said there were three or four honest men among them also. .

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they run their boat into
the beach, and came all on shore, healing the boot up after them, which I wasgled to see;
for I was afraid tlr would rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from
$8110" with some do in her to guard her; and so we should not be able to seize the

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to the other hm; and it was easy to
see they were under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and
a great hole in her bottom. .

After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or three at shouts, halloomg
with all their might to try if they could make t eir companions hear; at all was to no ur~
pose; then theycnmealleloseinaring, and fireda volleyof their small arms, which sad
we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one, these in the cave, we
were sure, could not hear, and those in our keeping, though they heard rt well enough, yet
durst give no answer to them.

They wereso astonished at the surprise of this, that. as they told us afterwards, they resolved
to goallonboard ageinto theirehip, and let them howthemthstthemen wereall
murdered, and the lea -bout steved; accordingly, they immediately launched the boat again,
audgotallotthemou ard. _ . _

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at this, behevmghthg wousldflfio on
board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up for lost, and so e euld ' lose

 

u
the ship, which he was in hopes we should have .recovered; but he was quickly as much
frightened the other way. . .

l.'hey had not been long put off with the boat. but we perceived then: all oomru on shore
again; but with this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems, they consul together
upon, viz. to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to goon shore, and go up into the
country to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were at a loss what to do; for our
seizing those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape;
because they would they row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would he sure to
weigh, and set sail, and so our recovering the shi would be lost. ' .

However, we had no remedy but to wait an see what the issue of thing: might present.
The seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put enofi' toe. good
distance from the shore. and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the bout. _

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill,
under which m habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive as. l e could have been very glad they would have come nearer to _ns. so that we
naighta have fired at them, or that they would have gone farther ofl', that we might have come
a ran .

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where the could see a at way in the
valley and woods, which lav towards the north-east part, and w ere the islan lay lowest. they
shouted and hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture for from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down or under a tree. to consider of it. find
they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as 0 other party of them had done, they had
done the job for us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to ventureto go to
sleep. thoughl they could not tell what the danger was waged to fear neither. ' _

'1' e up 'n made a very just proposal to me upon ' consultation of them, viz. that
perhaps t ey would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that
we should all sally upon them, just at the juncture when their ieces were all discharged. and.
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without h oodshed. I irked the w,
phroyided it was'douc while we were near enough to come up to them. before they co load

err pieces 11.

But this event did not hap n, and we lay still a. lon time, very irresolnte what course to
take; at length I told them ere would he nothingto done in my opinion till night, and
then, if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them and
the shore. and so might use some stratagenr wrth them In the boat, to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing; and were v uneasy;
when, after long consultations. we saw them start all up, and mare down to the sea
It seems, the had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place, that
they resolve to go on board the s hit again, give their companions over for lost, and so
go on with their intended voyage with t e e 'p.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I i ' ed it to be as it really was-that
the had given over their search. and were for goinghac again; and the captain, as soon
as told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered in and to a titt e.

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the 'ttle creek westward. towards
the place where the savages came on shore when Fnda was rescued; and as soon as they came
to a. little rising ground at about half a mile distance, bade them halloo as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen
answer_them, they should return it again. and then, keeping out of sight, take a round, alwa
answering when the others hallooed. to draw them as far into the island, and among the w
as ossib e, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I directed them.

ey were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed,_and the presently
heard them, and answering run along the shore westward towards the vows they . when..-.---u.;_

The Life and Admum of Robinson Crusoe. 12!

th were presently stopped by the creek, where the waterbei up, they could not get over,
called or the boat to come up, and set them over, as indeed

When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone up a good way into
the creek, and as it were in an harbour within the land. th took one of the three men out of
hertogoalong withthem, and left onlytwo in the boat, ving famnedhertotheatnmpo!
a little tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for: and immediately leaving Friday and the ca tain's mate to their
business, I took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their sig t, we surprised the
two man before they were aware, one of them lying on shore, and the other being in the boat;
the follow on shore was between sleepiniand waking, and ing to start up, the captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him, and hoe ed him down, an then called out to him In the boat
to ichl, or he was a dead man.

here needed very few arguments to persuade a sin la man to yield, when he saw five men
upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides ' was, it seems, one of the three that
were not so has in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded
not only to yield, nt afterwards to join very sincere with us.

In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest.
that they drew them. by hallooing and answering. from one bill to another, and from one
wood to another, till they not only heartil tired them, but left them where they were very
sure they could not reach back tothe boat ore it was dark; and indeed they were hmly
tired themselves also by the time they came back to us.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to fell upon them, so as to
make sure work with them. ,

It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they came back to thesr boat;
and we could hear the foremost of them, long before they came quite up, callin to those behind
to come along; and could also hear them answer, and complain how lame an tired they were.
and not being able to come any faster. which was very welcome news to us.

At len they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express their confusion, when
they than the boat fast aground in the creek. Thetide ebbed out, and their two men gone.
We could hear them call one another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another
they were tten into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants in it, and they
should all murdered, or else there were devils or spirit in it, and they should be all earned
away and devoured.

'1' ey hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names a great many times, but
no answer. After some time we could see them, by the little light there was, run about wringing
their hands, like men in despair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the beat
to rest themselves, them come ashore again, and walk about, and so over the same thing

388-"!- .
M men would fain have had me given them leave to fell upon them at once in the dark;
but was wrllr' 'ngto take them at some advantage. so to heme them, andkill as few of them
asIeould; andespeciallwansunwillingto hazardthe ' ' gun ofourownmen,k'nowing
the others were very well armed. I resolved to wait to see if they '11 not separate; and there-
fore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambusoode nearer; and ordered Friday and the captain
to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the ground as they could, that they might not

be discovered, and get as near them as the could possibly, before the offered to fire.

They had not been lo in that posture ut that the bostswaiu. W 0 VII the principal fig-
leader of the mutiny, an had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirrted of all e
rest, came walking towards them with two more of the crew. The captain was so eager. as
hams this principal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come sonearaetobe sure of him; forthey only heard his tongue before. But when they
came nearer, the captain and Friday, startin upon their feet, let fly at them.

The boatewain was killednponthe spot; gsnertmanwas shotlntnths body,a.nd fell just
by him, thongbhe did not distill an honrortwo after; and thsthirdnnfor it.

At the nurse of the fire,Iimmediatelysdvaneedwithmywholearmy,whiohwumeight
men; viz. myself. generalissimo; Frida , my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war. who we ad trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark. so that they could not see our number; and I
made the man they had led; in the boatmvho was now one of us. to call them by name. to
trv if I could bring them to a. parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which
tell out just as we desired. For indeed it was easy to think, as their condition then was,
they would be very willing to capitulate; so he calls out as loud as he could to one of them,
" Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's that, Robinson?"
For it seems he knew his voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay, for God's sake, Tom Smith,
throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment."

" Who must we yield to? Where are they P" as s Smith again. "Here they are," says
he. " here is our fitnin and tidy men with him. ave been hunting you this two hours.
The boatifivpin is ' , Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield,
you are a est."

"Will they give us quarter. then?" says Tom Smith, " and we will yield." " I'll go and
ask if you promise to yield," sa s Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the captain
himself then calls out. "You, mith, you know my voice. ii on. lay down your arms
immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will A ' .

Upon the Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake, captain, give me quarter. What have I
done? they have been all as bad as I" (which b the way was not true, neither; for it seems
this Will Atkins was the first man that laid old of the captain when they first mutinied,
and used him barbarously in tying his hands, and givin him injurious language). However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at scretion, and trust to the governor's
mercy, by which he meant me, for they all called me governor.

In a word. they all laid down their arms. and begged their lives. And I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more. who bound them all; and then my army of
fifty men, which, particularly with those three, were all but eight, came up an seized upon
them all, and upon their boat, only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of
stats." '

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing the ship; and, as for the
captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he exppstnleted with them ppm: the villainy
of their practices with him, and at length upon the rther wickedness of eir design, and
181:; certainly it must bring them to misery and distrea in the end, and perhaps to the

0".

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives. As for that, he told
them they were none of his prisoners, hnt t e commander of the island; that they thought
they had set him on shore in a barren. uninhabited island, but it had pleased God so to direct
them that the island was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman; that he
might hang them all there. if be pleased; but, as he had given them all quarter, he so
he would send them to En land, to be dealt with there as justice required, except tkins,
whom he was commanded y the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would
be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired efl'ect. Atkins fell upon his
knees to he the captain to intereede with the governor for his life. and all the rest begged
of him, for 's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, and that it would be a
most easy thing to bring these fellows. in to be hearty in ' possession of the ship; so I
retired in the dark from them. that they might not see what kin of a governor they had, and
called the captain to me. When I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
geek again and say to the captain, " Captain, the commander calls for you" and presently

e captam replied, "Tell his excellency 1am just a-com' ." This more perfectly amused them,
and they all behaved that the commander was just by wi his fifty men.

U n the ca tain's coming to me, I told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked
won nly w , and resolved to put it in execution the next morning.' . '. V ._ \. ~--...-....,...

 

771: Life and Advmmre: of Robinson Crusoe. 1'23

Butain order to execute itwithmers art, and secureof memltold himwemustdivide
the nsoners, and that he should and take Atkins, and two more of the worst of them, and
sea them pinioned to the cave w ere the others lay. This was committed to Friday and the
two men who came on shore with the captain.

They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison, and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to
men in their condition.

The other I ordered to my bower. as I called it, of which I have iven a full description;
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they were
upon their behaviour.

To these in the mornin I sent the ca min, who was to enter into a parley with them: in a
word, to try them, and to 1 me whether a the ht they might be trusted or no to go on board
and surprise the ship. Hetalked to them of t e injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to; and that, though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to
the present action, yet that, if they were sent to England, they would all he hang? in chains,
to be sure; but that, if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the s '1), he would
have the governor's en gement for their pardon.

Any one may guess ow readily such a proposal would beaccepted b men in their condition;
they fell down on their knees to the ca tam,aud promised, with t e deepest imprecations,
that thgy would be faithful to him to e last dro , and that they should owe their lives to
him, an would owith him all over the world; t they would own him for a iather to
them as long as ey lived.

" ell," says the captain, " I must go and tell the governor what you say, and. see what I
candotebring himte consent teit;" so he brou ht mean accouutof the temper he found
them in, and that he veril believed they would be aithful.

However. that we ' t be very secure, I told him he should go back again and chem
out those five, and tellingmm they mi ht see that he did not want men; that he would take
out those five to be his assistants, an that the governor would keep the other two, and. the
thme that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as hostages for the "egg of those five;
and. that, if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages she be hanged in
chains alive u n t e shore. _

This look severe, and convinced them that the governor was in earnest. However, th
_ had no way left them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the pnseners, as mu
as of the captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty. _

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :--1. The captain, hrs mate, and
passenger. 2. Then the two prisoners of the first gang. to whom, having their characters from
the captain. I had given their liberty and trusted them with arms._ 3. The other two, who I
had kept till now in my bower pinioned; but. upon the captain's matron, had now released. _4.
Shoes fivfe rle'leased at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in

e cave or oeteges.

I asked the captain ifhe was willing to venture with these hands on board the ship; for, as
for me and my man Friday, Idid not think it was proper for us to stir. havrng seven men
left behind, and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder and supply them with
vietuals.

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keephthem fast; but Friday went twice a day to them
to supil'y them with necessaries, and. I made e other twooarry provisions to a certain distance.
where ride was to take it. .

When I owed myseli to the two hostages, it was with the captain, who told them I was the
person the vernor had ordered to look after them, and that it was the governor's pleasure
that they ould not stir anywhere but by my direction; that. if they did, they should be
fetched into the castle and he laidin irons; sothat,asweneversu.flered them to see mess
governor. so I fiw appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor, the gammmthe
castlo.undthe'e,uponallowasions. _ _

The captain now had no difieulty before him but to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of
one. andmanthem. He made hispessengercaptain ofone, wrth fourothe'r men; andhrmself,
and his mate and five more, want in the other; and they contrived their business very well.
for "3 came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the ship,
he in e Robinson hail them, and tell them the had brought ofl' the men and the boat, but
that it was a long time before they had found em, and the like. holding them in a chat till
they came to the ship's side. when the captain and the mute, enter-in first with their arms,
immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the hu end of their mnskcts,
being very faithfully seconded by their men. The secured all the rest that were upon the main
and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hate es to keep them down who were below, when
the other boat and their men, entering at the fore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship,
and the shuttle which went down into the cook-room, making the three men they found there
risoners.

1: When this was done, and all safe upon deck. the captain ordered the mate with three men
to break into the round--house, where the new rebel captain lay, and. having taken the alarm.
was gotten up. and with two men and a boy had gotten fire-arms in their hands; and when the
mate with a crow split open the door, the new ca taiu and his men fired boldly among them,
and wounded the mate with a musket-ball, which mks his arm, and wounded two more of the
men. but killed nobod .

The mute, calling or help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he was, and
with his pistol shot the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
came out a 'n behind one of his cars; so that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest
yielded, an the ship was taken elIectually, without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to he fired, which was
the signal reed upon with me, to give me notice of his success; which you may be sure
{hwas very g ad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the clock in

e mornmg.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day of
great fatigue to me, I slept very sound. ' l I was something surprised with the noise of a gun;
and presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of Governor, overnor: and
presently I knew the captain's voice, when climbing up to the top of the bill, are he stood,
and pointing to the ship, be embraced me in his arms. " My dear friend and deliverer," says
he, "there is your ship. for she is all ours, and so are we. and all that belong to her. I cast
my e es to the shi , and there she e within a little more than half a mile of the shore; for
the had wei bed er anchor as soon as they were masters of her; and the weather being fair,
h brought or to an anchor just against the mouth of a little creek; and the tide being up,
the ca turn had brought the pinnace in near the place where I first lauded my rafts, and so
landedl7 just at my door.

I was, at first. read to sink down with the surprise: for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly
put into my hands, a l things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me whither I leased
to go. At first, for some time. I was not able to answer him one word; but as ho ha taken
me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a. bottle out of his pocket, and gave me
a drum of cordial. which he brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I sat down upon
the "gnu-Ind. and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a
we to rim.

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only not under any surprise,
as I was; and he said athousand kind ten or things to me,tp compose me and bring me to
myself; but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion;
at last it broke out into tears, and in a little while after I recovered my speech.

Then I took my turn and embraced him as my deliverer, and we racked together. I told
him I looked u n him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and at the whole transac-
tion seemed to a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies we had
of a secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an evidence, that the eyes of an infinite
power could search into the remotsst corner of the world, and send help to the miserable
whenever He pleased. -
Iforgotnotto lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart could forbser
to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for one in such a. wilderness,
ma march a. depolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must always be acknow-

ws had talked awhile, the captain told me he had bro ht me some little refresh-
ments. such as the ship ad'orded, and such as the wretches, that been so long his masters,
hn_d not lundered him of: uponthis heculled aloudtothehoat, and bid hismeu hringthe
things as ore thatwers forthe overnor; and indeed itwas apresent, as if I had been one. not
thatwastobecarriedalengwi them.butasiPS1hadbeentodwell upon the islandstilhnnd
the were all to without me.

' he had ughtmeacase of bottlesfullofexcellent cerdialwaters,sixlargebottlssof
Madeira wine; the bottles held two quarts a piece; two and of excellent good tobacco, tvfelve
goodhgiep'esof the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, wi a bag of peas, and about a hundred
w o hiccui

' 0' brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of lemons. and two bottles of
lime-juice. and abundance of other things: but beddes these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to me. he brought: me six clean new shirts. six very good nechclothe. two pair of
gloves, one 'r of shoes, 3 t, and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his
own, which been worn but ve little: in a word, he clothed me from head to foot.

Itwes a. verykind and agrees le present." anyone mayimagine to one in mycircum-
stances; but never was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy,
as it was to me to wear such clothes at their first fitting on.

After these ceremonies passed, and after all ' good things were brought into my little
apartment, we began to consult what was to he done with the prisoners we had; for itwss
worth considering whether we might venture to take them away with us or no. especially two of
them. whom we knew to be inco ' 'ble and refracteryto the last degree; and the captain said
he sw they were such rogues, tthere was no obligiug them: and if he did them
awe it must be in irons, as mulefactnrs, to be delivered over to justice at the first nglish
colony he could come at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious about it.

Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst undertake to bring the two men he spoke
of, to make it their own request that he should leave them upon the island. " I should be very
glad of that," so s the captain. " with all my heart." -

"Well,"snid ,Iwillseud forthemu .andtelkwiththeru foryou: soIceusedFridaysnd
the two es, for they were now ' ed, their comrades havmg performed their promise;
I say,Ican themto gotothecave, and ring upthe five men,pinionedestheywsre,tothe
bower. and keep them there till I came.

After some time, I came thither, dressed in my new habit. and now I was called governor
again. B ' all met. and the captain with me, I caused the meutobe broughtbetore me, and
I told them, had had a full account of their villanous behaviour to the captain. and how they
had run away with the ship, and were preparing to commit fiarther robberies; but thatPro-
vidance had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they
had digged for others. .

I let them know, that by in direction the ship had been seized, that she lay now in the
road, and they might see hy-an -hy, that their new captain had received the reward of his villany;
{or that they might see him h ' at the yard arm.

That as to them, I wanted to w what they had to say, why I should not execute them as
pirates taken in the feet, as by my commission the could not doubt_I had authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest. they had nothm to say but-this. " That
when they were taken, the captain romiaed them their lives, and y humblilm lored my
mercy ; bnt I told them I knew not w t me to show them ; for, as for myself, molved
to uitthe islandwith all my men, anth enpessaggnwiththecaptamtego for England:
andsaforthe captain, he could not cerrythemtoEpg d.other than-s prisoner-em none
to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship; the-consequence of which, they must
necdsknow,wouldbethegallows: sothatI could mthflwhwhwubutferthemunlessthey
had a mind to take their fate in the island; if tiara desired that. I did not care, as I had liberty
to leave it: I had some inclination to give them air lives. if they thought they could shift on
shore. They seemed very thankful for it; said they would much rather venture to stay there,
than to be carried to England to he han ed: so I le t it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to ma 'e some diflioulty of it. as if he darst not leave them
there: upon this I seemed to he a little aug with the captain, and told. him, that they were
my prisoners, not his: and that seeing I had 0 ered them so much favour, I would be as
as my word; and that if he (lid not think lit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty as I
fp'uud them : and it he did not like that. he might take them again, if he could catch
t cm.

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade
them retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I would leave them some
Ego-aim? some ammunition, and some directions how they should live very well, if they
t on t t.

Ugen this, I prepared to go on board the ship; but told the captain that I would eta that
night to prepare my things; and desired him to go on board in the meantime, and keep al right
in the ship, and send the boat on shore the next day for me; ordering him. in the meantime,
to opuse the new captain. who was killed, to be hanged at the yard arm, that these men might
see um.

When the ca min was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my apartment, and entered
seriously into t iaeourse with them of their circumstances. I told them, I thought they had
made a right choice; that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I
showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and. told them they had
nothing less to expect. '

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told them I would let them into
the story of m livin there, and put them into the way of making it easyto them: accordingly
I gave them t Io who e history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed them my fa ' ea>>
tions, the way I made in bread, planted my corn, cumd my gra ; and, in a word, all hat
was necessary to make rem easy. I told them the story so 0 the sixteen Spaniards that
were to be. expected; for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves.

I left them my firearms; viz. five maskets, three fowliug-pieces, and three swords. I had
above a. barrel and a half of )owder left; for after the first year or two I used but little, and
wasted none. I gave them a escriptiou of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk
and fatten them, to make both butter and cheese.

In a. word, I ave them every flirt of my own story; and I told them I would revail with
the captain to save them two nels o in wder more, and some garden s, which I
told them I would have been very lad of ; a 0 gave them the bag of peas which the captain
had brought me to eat, and bade t em to be sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this. I left them the next day, and went on board the ship; we prepared
immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning early, two of the five men
came swiuunin r to the ship's side. and making a most lamentable complaint of the other three,
begged to be tubken into the ship. for God's sake, for they should be murdered; and begged the
ca itain to take them on board. though he hanged them immediately.

pou this the captain pretended to have no power without me; but after some dificulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on board, and were some time after
soundly whipped and pickled; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide beinghp. with the things pro-
mised to the men, to which the captain, at m intercession, caused their chests and clothes to
be added, which they took, and were very t aukiul for. I also encouraged them, by telling
them. that if it lay in my way to send a vessel to take them in. I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for reliquce the great t'wkin cap I
had made. in umbrella, and m parrot: also I forgot not to take the money formerl men-
tioned, which lainby me so ong useless that it was grown rusty, or tarnished, an could
hardly pass for silver,till ithad beeaalittle rubbed and handled; as also the money I found
in the wreck of the Spanish ship.

And thus I left the island the nineteenth of December, as I found by the ship's account, in
the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and twent years, two months, and nineteen
days; being delivered from this second captivit the same y of the month that I first made
my escape in the Bum-huge, from among the oors of Sallee. ,

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England, the eleventh of June, in the year
1687, having been thirty and five years absent.

thu I came to En land, I was as perfect astranger to all theworld,asif I had never
been known there : my nefac'wr, and faithful steward, who I had left intrust with my money,
was alive, but had had t misfortunes in the world, was become a widow the second time.
and very low in the wor . I made has easy as to what she owed me, assuring her. I would
give her no trouble; but on the oontraury, in gratitude to her former care and taithfulness to
me, I relieved her as my little stock we d afford, which at that time would indeed allow me to
do but little for her: but I assured her, I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor
did I forget her, when I had suficient to help her; as shall he observed in its place.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead, and my mother, and all
the family extinct; except that I found two sisters, and two of the children of one of m
brothers: and as I hedbeen long given over for dead, there had been no provision made
for me, so that, in a word, I fonn nothing to relieve or assist me; and that little money I
had. would not do much for me as to settlin in the world. '

I met with one piece of gratitude, ind . which I_did not expect; and this was that the
master of the ship, who I had so happ' y delivered, and by the some means. saved the shies
and cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how Ihad sav
the lives of the men. and the shi , they invited me to meet them. and some other merchant
concerned, and all er in me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a .
present of almost two undrod pounds sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my life, and how little
way this would go towards settling me in the world. I resolved to goto Lisbon, and see if I
might not come by some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and 'of what
Freedmme o! my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years now given me over

or

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April following: regimen
Friday accom uying' me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a most 'thful
servant u n occasions.

When came to Lisbon, I found out. by inquiry, and to my ' satisfaction, my old
friend, the ca train of the ship, who first took me up at see. 011' o the shore of Africa: he was
now wn ol , and had left ofl' the sea, having put his son. who was far from a young man,
into '3 ship; and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and indeed.
I hardly knew him; but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself
tohisrememhrancewhenItoldhimwhonae. _

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I inquired, you ma be_ sure.
after my plantation, and my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the male for
about nine years; but that he could assure me,that when he came away my garmerwas lugs ;
but the trustees, whom I had joined with him, to take cognizance of my pa. were both d ;
that, however, he believed that I would have a very good account of the improvement of the
plantation; for that, upon the general belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees

'ven in the account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the proenrator fiscal;
who appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds
to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefitof the poor,a.nd for the
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic tenth: but that It I appeared. or any one for me, to
claim the inheritance, it should be restored; on] that the improvement, or annual reduction,
beingdistributed to charitable uses,could not herestored; butheassuredmethat steward
of the king's revenue (from lands) andthe provedore, or steward of the monastery, had taken
great care, all along. that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce. of which they received duly my moiety. .

I asked him if he linew to what height of improvement he had brought the plantation;
and whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether, on my geing thither, I
should meet with no obstruction to my possessing my elust right in the moiety.

Hc told me he could not tell exactly towliat degree e plantation was improved. but this he
know, that my partner was grown exeeedin rich upon the enjoying but one half of it! and
that, to the best of his remembrance. he had heard that the king's third of myteasrt, which
was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery, or religious house, menu to above
two hundred moidorcs a year; that. as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that. m partner bein alive to witness my title, and my name
being also enrolled in the ' tor of e country. A so he told me that the survivors of my
two trustees were \'c fair, onest people, and very wealthy, and he believed I would not only
have their assistance or putting me in possession, but would find a ve considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm, w 'le their fathers held
the} trust, and before it was given up as above, which, as he remembered, was for about

we ve years.

1 showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and inquired of the old calptain
how it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose my effects, when he lrucw that had
made my will, and had made him, the Porta ese captain. my universal heir, cc.

He told me that was trim; but that, as t ere was no proof of my being dead, he could not
not as executor, until some certain account should come of my death; and that, besides he
was not willing to intcnneddle with a thing so remote; that it was true he had registered my
wiil and put in his claim; and could he have given any account of my being dead or alivc,ie
would have acted by irocuration. and taken possession of the ingenio (so they call the sugar-
housc) and had given is son, who was now at the Brazils. order to do it.

" But." says the old man, " I have one piece of newsto tell you, which perhaps may not be so
acceptable to you as the rest; and that is, that believing you were lost, and all the world
believing so a so, your partner and trustees did ofi'er to aoconntto me in your name for six
or eight of the first years of profits. which I received; but there being at that time," so. s he,
" great disbursements, for increasing the works.bnildinlg an ingenio, and buying slaves, it id not
amount to near so much as afterwards it roduced: owever," says the o (1 man, "I shall give
you a true account of what I have receivch in all, and hothavsdi of it."

After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he brought me an account of
the six first years' income of my plantation, signed by my partner, and the merchants' trustees,
being always delivered in goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum. molasses,
dam, which is the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that every year the
income considerably increased: but, as above, the disbursement being large, the sum at first
was small: however, the old man let me see that he was debtor to 1110470 moidores of gold,
besides 60 chests of sugar, and 15 double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having
been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon. about eleven years after my leaving the place.

The good man then began to com ilain of his misfortunes. and how he had been obliged to
make use of my money to recover is losses, and buy him a. share in a new ship ;--" However,
my old friend," so a he. " you shall not want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son
returns, you slial be fully satisfied."

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 160 Portugal moidores in gold; and
ving me the writing of his title to the ship which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which

:thms a quarter part owner, and his son another, he put them both in my hands for security
0 e rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man to be able to bear
this; and remembering what he had one for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and
how generously he had used me on all occasions, and porficululy how sincere africnd ho was
now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me. Therefore, first I asked
him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at that time, andif it would
not straiteu him 1' He told me he could not say but it might straiteu him a little: but,
however. it was my money, and I might want it more than he.

Everything the good man said was full of afl'eofion, and I could hardlyreininfrom tears
while he spoke. In short. I took one hundred of the moidores, and called for a n and ink to
give him areceiptfor them; then I returned him the rest, and told him, ifevsr had Won
o! the lantation, I would returnthe other to himalso, as indeed I afterwards did : and that, as
to the ill of sale of his rtiu his son's ship, I would not take it by any means; but that
if I wanted the money. I ound he was honest eno h to pay me; and if I did not. but came
to receive what he gave me reason to I won'lfi never have a penny more from him.

Whenthiswaspassed,theoldman utoaskmeithe should pntmeiuamethodto
malre my claim to my plantation._ I to d him I thought to go overte it myself. He said I
might do so if I pleased; but that If I did not, there were ways enough to secure my ' ht, and
immediately" appropriate the profits to my use; and as there were ships in the river of 'shon,
just ready to go away to Brazrl, he made me enter in name in a public refiner, with his
afiidsvit, aflirming upon oath that I was alive, and that was the same person w 0 took up the
land for the planting the said lantatron at first.

This being ly by a notary, and a. procuration afixed, he directed me to send it
with a letter of '1; writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed
in staying with him till an account came of the return.

ever anything was more honourable than the proceedings upon this procuration; for in less
than seven nos 3 I received a large packet from the survivors of my trustees. the merchants
for-1:823" account I went to sea, rn which were the following' particular letters and papers
enc :--
First. There was the account current of the produce of my term, or plantation, from the
earwheu their fathers had balanced with my 0 d Portugal captain, baing for six years; the
es a peered to be 1174 maidens in my favour.

Secon . There was the account of four- care more while they kept the efiects in their
hands, before the government claimed the administration, as being the effects of a person
not to be found, which they call Civil Death; and the hdance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, mounted to--ernisadoes, which made 8241 moidores.

Thirdly,'l'hsrs was the prior of the Angush'nes' account, who had received the profits for
above fourteen years: but not heing to account for what was themed to the hospital, very
honest] declared he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he no owlcdged to my account.
As to e king's part, that refunded nothing.

There was a letter of my er's, congratulating me v afl'eofionurtzeyczpon my bei_u
alive; giving me an account ow the estatewasim roved,an what it 1; rr a year, wr
a particular of the number of squares, or acres, t it contained; how planted, how many
slaves there were upon it; and, m ' two and twenty crosses for blessings, told me he had
said so many Ave Marius to thank e blessed Virgin that I was alive, inviting me very
passionately to come over and take possession of m own, and in the mean time to give_hrm
orders to whom he should deliver in afiects, it did not come myself; concluding with a
hearty tender of his friendship, and at of his famil ; and sent me, as a resent, seven fine
leoparde' skins, which he had, rt seems, received from '03 by some other s p which he had
sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests
of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred piecee'ot gold nncoiued, not quite so large as mordores.

the same fleet my two merchant--trustees shipped me 1200 cheats of sugar, 800 rolls of
tobacco, and the rest 0 the whole account in 1d. . _ _

I mi ht well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better than the begrunrng. It re
in Is to s ress here the flutter-lugs of my very heart, when I looked over these letters,
an ' yvxvhenIfoundallmy wealth aboutme;forastheBrenlsshrsoomeallrn
fleets, e same shi which brought my letters brought my goods: audthe e ects were safe
in the river before e letter came to my hand. In a word, turned and grew arch; and
hadnotthe oldmanrun and fetched meacordiaLI believethesn surprrseofyoyhad
overset nature, and I had died uponthe spot.

I
Nay, after that. I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till a physician being sent for.
and something of tho real cause of m illness being known, he ordered me to be bled, after
which I had relief. and grew well; but verily believe, if it had not been eased by a vent given
in that manner to the spirits, I should have died.

I was now master, all on a. sudden, of above 5000!. sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I mi ht well call it, in the Brazils, of above 10001. ayear, as sure as an estate of lands an
Englan ; and in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how
to compose myself for the enjoyment of it.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good old captain, who had
been first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end. I showed him all that was sent me; I told him that. next to the Providence of heaven
which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward
lum, which I would do a hundred-fold. So I first returned .to him the 100 meidores I had
received of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused himto draw up a general release or
discharge for the 4-70 moidoros which re had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest
and firmcst manner possible; after which I caused a precurntiou to be drawn, empowering
him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and appointed my partner
to account to him. and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a
clause in the end, being a grant of 100 mordores a year to him during his life, out of the
cfi'lccls; and fifty moidores a year to his son after him, for his life. An thus I requited my
0 man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to do with the estate that
Providence had thus put into my hands: and, indeed, I had more care upon my head now
than I had in my silent state of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what Ihad,
and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my bus}-
uoss was how to secure it. I had never a cave to hide my money in, or a place w ere it
might lie without lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any" body would meddle
with it. On the contrary, I new not where to put it, or who to trust wit it; my old patron,
the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the onl refuge I had.

In t 10 next place. my interest. in the Brazils seem to summon me thither; but now I could
not tell how to think of gom'gsttliithcr till I had settled my affairs, and left in efl'ects in some
safe hands behind me. At I thought of my old friend the widow, who I {new was honest,
and wouldbc "list to me; but then she was in years, and but r, and, for ought I knew,
might be in cbt; sothnt, in aword, I had no way but to go nck to England myself, and
take my effects with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and, therefore, as I had
rewarded the old captain full , and to satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor, so I
began to think of my poor wi ow, whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while
it was in .her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a
merchant in Lisbon to write to his compondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to
PS0 and find her out, and carry her in money 1001. from me, and to talk with her, and comfort

or in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further supply. At the same
time I sent my two sisters in the country each of them 1001., they being, though not in want,
yet not in very good circumstances; one bavin been married, and left a widow; and the other
having a husband not so kind to her as he she d be.

But among all my relations or uaiutances. I could not et itch upon one towhorn I durst
commit the gross o my stock, that might go away to the rd; and leave things safe behind
me; and this greatly pe lexed mc.
. I had once a mind to ave gone to the Brazils, and have settled myself there, for I was, as
it were, naturalized to the place; but I had some little scruple in in mind about religion, which
msensibly drew me back, of which I shall say more presently. owever, it was not religion
that kept me from going there for the present; and as I had made no sample of being openly
of the reh on of the country, all the while I was among them, so neither 'd Iyst; only that
now and en, havmg of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began to think of living_-..,.. ,., We,

   

271: Life and Adz/mums- of Robinson Crusoe. I 3 1

nnddyingamon them,Ibegantorcgretrn ha ' refessedmyselfa ishandthaughtit
mi htnotbethgbestreligionwdiewith. y mgp P5P

ut,as Ihevesaid,thiswas notthemainthing thatheptmefrom ' to theBruilstt
that real! I did. not lrnowwith whomtoleave myefieots behindme; so resolved at lastto
go to Eng d with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance, or find
some relations. that would be iaithful to me; and accordingly I prepared to go for England
witihalxldmytzvealth. thin f h Ifirst(th Brezilfleetbem )

no or prepare gsorrny ' ome. e ' 'ust ' awa
resolved to give answers suitable mailings" and faithful account of ' flied when;
And,first,tothe prior-of St. Augustine, I wxotealetter fullof thanks ortheir 'ustd '
and the offer of the 872 mcidores. which was undisposed of, which I desired might given,
to the monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior should direct, desiring the good Padre's
pm on for me, and the like.

wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much
justice antd hopesty calledior; as for sending them any present, they were far above having any
occasion or 1

Lastly, I wrote to m partner, aoknowledgmg' his indust in the im re ' the lantation,
and his integrity in incrguing the stock of the works, 'vmz him inseam for ' future
government of m plart, according to the powers I had flit with m old patron, to whom I de-
sired him to son w atsver became due to me, till he should hear rom me more particularly,
assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him, but to settle myself there
for the remainder of in life. To this I added every handsome present of some Italian silks for
his wife and two dang ters, for such the ca tein's son informed me he had: with two pieces
of fine English broad-cloth. the best I soul get in Lisbon, five pieces of black haize, and some
Flanders lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my afi'airs, sold my cargo, and finned sllmy sfiects into goodbills of
exchange, my next dificulty was which way to go to England. I had been accustomed enough
tothesen,andyetI hudastrange aversiontogo toE landby sea atthattime; andthongh
I could give no reason for it, yet the difliculty Increase? upon me so much, that though I had
once shipped my baggage in order to go, yetI altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.

It istrue I hadbeenverynnfoflmtebysemandthismight be someofthereasons. But
let no man sli ht the stron impulses ofhrs own thoughts in cases ofsuch moment. Twoof
the ships whi Ihadsinglefiouttogeiqueanmore particularly sinsledoutthanany other,
thatistosa,sossinoneofthemtoputmythingsonboerd,an intheotheotohave
agrcedwitht ecaptain; Isaytwooithese ships miscarried.viz., onewsshaksnhithe Alge-
me, and the other was cast awa on the Start, near Torbay, and all the peop drowned.
exceptthres. Sothatineither thosevessehIhadhsenmademiumblaandmwhwhmost
itwsshardwsay. .

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts,m old Elot, to whom I communicated every-
thing, pressed ms earnestlynot to go by sea; at ei erto bylsnd to the Greynaand
crossover-the Ba efBiscayto Rochelle, from whence it was utan easy and satelournem
mthfis-ri'zan sotoCalars' and Dover; ortogouptoMadn'd,sndsoall the way by

ng cs. _

In aword,Iwas so repossessed sgsm' stm goingbyseaatalLexceptt-rom Calm-to
Dover,thatI resolved toptravel all the way by land; which,as Iwas not in haste,and did
not value the charge. was by much the tpleasanter way; and kennels; It more so, my old
captain brought an English gentleman, e son of a merchant in Lisbon, whowes willmg
totravel with me. After which, we picked 11 two more English merchants also, and two
young Portuguugmflemmthelastgoingto arisonlyno twe_weromallsrxofus,and-

ve servants, the two merchants. and the two Portuguese, coan ' themselves with one
servantbetweentwo," savetheoharge; sndasforme,Igotan Eng sailor to travel '3"
me as assnant, besides mthem Friday, whowastoomuahastrangertobc capable of supplying
theplaceofaservanton read. 2

r
In this manner I setout from Lisbon; and our company being all very well mounted and
armed, we made a little troop, whereof did me the honour to call me captain, as well
because I was the oldest man, as because had two servants, and indeed was the original of
the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so shall I trouble you with none of my
land journal. But some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and difiieult journey.
I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strau to Spain, were willing to stay some
time to see the court of Spain, andto see what waswo observing;but itbein thelatter
oi the summer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the middle 0 October: at
when we came to the edge of Navarre. we were alarmed at several towns on the way with an
account that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme
hazard, to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to me that had been alwa
used to a hot climate, and indeed to countries where we could scam bear any clothes on. e
cold was insufierable; nor indeed was it more painful than it was surprising, to come but ten
days before out of the Old Castile, where the weather was not onl warm, but very hot, and
immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains, so very een, so severely cold as to
be intolera 1e, and to endanger benumbmg and perishing of our fingers andtoes.

Poor l'rida was reall frightened when he saw the mountains all covered with snow, and
felt cold wea er, which e had never seen or felt before in his life.

To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna. it continued snowing with so much
violence, and so long that the people said winter was come before its time: and the roads,
which were difioult before, were now quite impassable; in a word, the snow lay in some places
too thick for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the ease in northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive every step. We stayed no
less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood
of its being better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory of man), I roposed that -we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take
shi ping for Bordeaux, w 'ch was a very little voyage.

ut while we were considenn this, there came infour French entlemen, who, havin
beenstop ontheFrenchsieofthepasses,aswewereon eSganiah,hadPSoun
out a gui who traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had ro ht them over
the mountains by such ways, that they were not much incommoded with e snow; and
where they met with snow in any quantity, they saidit was frozen hard enough to hear
them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to carry us the same we , with no
hazard fiom the snow, provided we were armed sudiciently to protect ourselves in wild
beasts; for he said, upon these great snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show them-
selves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, it he would insure us from a kind of two-1e ed wo ves which we were told we were in
most danger from, especially on the French side of e mountains.

He satisfied us there was no d r of that kind in the way that we were to go. So we
readil agreed to follow him, as di also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
Ere eh, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back

Am ' 1y we all set out from Pampeluna, with our-"snide, on the fifteenth of November,
-a.nd indeed, was surprised, when, instead of going forw , he came directly back with us, on
the same road that we came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having passed two rivers,
and come intothe plain coun , we found ourselves in a warm climate 'n, where the country
waspleasantand no snowte seen; bnton asudden,turningtohis sighs"? roachedthe
mountains another way; and. though it is true, the hills and the preeipices loo ul, yetnu'nw SHOOTING :\ wow.

n.5, u,>>
he made so amply tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding we. . we insensibly passed
the hci ht of e mountains, without being much mcumbercd with t e snow; and all on a
sudden e showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Iainguedoc and Guseoigne, all green and
iloprishing; though indeed it was at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass
ye

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole day and a night, so

fast, that we could not travel; but he bid as be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found,
indeed. that we began to descend every day, and to come more north than before; and so,
do )ending upon our ide, we went on.
_ t was about two ours before night, when our guide being something before us, and not
Justhin sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow wa ,
adjoining to a thick wood: two of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been half a s
before us, he had been devoured indeed. before we could have helped him: one of them fastened
upon his horse, and the other attached the man with that violence that he had not time, or
not presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but halloocd and cried out to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon
as Friday crime in sight of the man, he halloocd, as loud as the other, " 0, master! 0,
master!' But, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot
the wolf that attacked him in the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for he, havin been used to that
kind of creature in his country, had no fear u n him, but went close up to im, and shot him
as above; whereas any of us would have [i at a further distance, and have perhaps either
miiwed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a. holder man than I, and indeed it alarmed all our com-
pany, when, with the noise of Frida 's pistol, we heard on both sides the dismallest howling
wolves, and the noise redoiibled by t e echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there
been a prodigious multitude of them; and perhaps indeed there was not such a few, as that we
had no cause of up rehensions. .

However, as Fri had killed this wolf, the other, that had fastened upon the horse, left him
immediately. and ii ,having happily fastened upon his head, where thebosses of the hndlehad
stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt: the man, indeed, was most hurt;
for the ragin creature had hit him twice, once on the arm, and the other time a little above
his knee; on he was just. as it were, tumbling down by the disorder of the horse, when Fndsy
came up, and shot the wolf. .

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's pistols we all mended our pace, and rode
up as fast as the way (which was very difficult) would give us leave, to see whatwas the matter:
as soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw-plainly what had been
the case. and how Friday had disen . l the poor guide; though we di not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had 'il ed. . _

But never was a. fi htman ed so hardil , and in such a surprising manner, as that which
followed between Friday and t e bear, whic vo us all wugh at first we were surprised and
afraid for him) the greatest diversion imaginaglb; as the r is a heavy, clumsy creature,.and
does not gallo as the wolf does, who is swift and light; so he has two'particular quahties.
which gene y are the rule of his actions; first as to men. who are not his proper prey. I say
not his proper p , because, though I cannot say what excessive hunger might do. which was
now their case, t 9 ground being all covered with snow; yet as to men, he does not usually
attempt them, unless they first attack him; on the contrary, if on meet him in the woods, if
you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with you; yet on you must .take care to be
very civil to him, and give him the road; for he is a ve_ nice gentleman; he will not a step
out of the way for a prince; nay, if you are really afroi , our best way IS 00 look not or my.
and keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, and stain. still, and look steadfastly at him, he
takes it for an affront: and if you throw or toss any thing at him, and it hits him, though it
were but a bit of stick as big as our finger, he takes it for an afimnt, and sets all other basins"
aside to pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfaction in pomt of honour, and this is his first
quality: the next is, that if he be once afl'ronled, he will never leave you, night or day, till he
has his revenge, hut follows at a good round rate till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had dclivcn'd our guide. and when we came up to him, he was helping him
oil" from his horse; for the man was both hurt and frightened. and indeed the last more than
the first; when. on the sudden we spied the bear some out of the wood. and avast monstrous
one it was. the biggest by for that ever I saw: we were all a. little sn rised when we saw him ;
but when Friday saw him. it was easy to see joy and courage in the to ow's countenance: " Oh!
Oh! Oh !" says Friday. three times. pointing to him, " 0, master! you give me to leave. me
shnlu-e in. hand with hnn, nu: make you good laugh."

I was surprised to soc the fellow so pleased, " You fool. you," says I, "he will eat you. up."
" l-Iuhu- me up ! calee mu up! " says Friday, twice over again: " Me catce him up: me make you

good laugh; you a" <<lay lu-ro. nu- show you good laugh: " so down he sits, and gets his boots

oil in a moment. and put on a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear), andwhich he
had in his pocket. gin-u my other servant his horse, and, with his gun, away he flew, swift like
the wind.

'I'ho hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody. till Friday oomingp'lretty
near, calls to him. as if "Il' hear could understand him: "Hark, ye! hark ye," says 1' 'day,
" um x malice wit yo " Wi- Ibllowcd ata distance; for now, being oome down onthe Gucoigno
nidl- oi the mountains. w.- were entered a vast great forest, where the country was plain, and
pn-tty open, though many trains in it scattered here and there.

Friday, who had, as we say. the heels of the bear, came u with him quickly, and takes up
a great shine. and throws at him, and it hit him just on the loud; but did. him no more harm
than if lu: had thrown it against a wall: hut it answered Friday's end; for the rogue was so
void (if fear, that he did it purely to make the bear follow him. and show us some laugh, as he
ea in ii.

As soon as the bear felt the stone. and .vw him, he turns about, and comes aficr him, taking
devilish lung strides. and shaming along at a strange rate, so as would put a horsctoa mid '
gallop: away runs Friday. and takes his course, as if he ran towards us for help; so we al
resolved to lire at once upon tluI bear. and deliver my man; though 1 was angry at him heartily
for l-ringin v the bear hark upon us. when he was going about his own business another way;
and expel-hilly l 'as angry that In- had turned the. bear upon as, and then run away; and Ice] ed
out " You dog. aid I. " is this your making us laugh ? Come awn . and take your horsc,thu.t
we may shoot. the ermtum." He hears me, am] cries out. " No a met, no shoot, stand still.
you get much laugh ;" and. as the nimble creature run two foot for (he bcnst's one. he turned
on a sudden on one side of us. and, seeing a at oak tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to
us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he gets mmhly up the tree, laying his gun down upon
the ground, at about live or six yards from the bottom of the tree.

The bear soon came to the tree. and we followed at a distance. The first thin he did, he
utopia-d at the gun. sun-1t to it. but let it lie,-und up he scrambles into the tree, chmbing like
a cat, though so monstruuuly heavy. I was amazed at the folly. as I thought it, of my man,

. and could not for my life see anything to laugh at yet, till. seeing the lmar get up the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.

When we came to the tree. there was Friday got out to the small end of a large limb of the
tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the bear got. out to that part where
the limb of the tree was weaker, " Ha!" says he to as, "now you see me teachcc the bear
dauce;" so he falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he should 1; back; then indeed we did
laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him by a great cal: when he sees him stand
still. he calls out to him again. as if he had sup mod the bearcould speak English, "What,
you come no further? Pray, you come further.' So he left jumplin and shaking the tree;
and the hcar. just as if he understood what he said, did come a. ~tt o further; than he fell a
jam in again, and the beer stopped a ' .

\ I: ought now was a good tune to mock him on the head, and I called to Friday to stand
still and we would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, "O pray! 0 pray! no shoot.-' -,- .7, "flux--37.1

271: Life and Adventure: of Robins-on Crusoe. 135

me shoot by and them" he would have said " by and b ." However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much. and the bear stood so treklish, we had In hing enough indeed,
but still could not imagine what the fellow would do; for first we tho t he do ded upon
shaking the boar oil', and we found the beer was too eunuin for too. or he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast wit his great brood claws and
{:22 so that we could not imagine what would be the end of it, and where the jest would be at

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for, seeing the bear cling fast to the bongll. and
that he could not be persuaded to come any farther, " Well, well," says Friday, " you no come
farther, me go, me go; you no come to me, me moons to you;" and upon this he goes out to
the smallest and o the bough, where it would ad with his weight, and gently lets himself
down by it, sliding down the bough till he come near enough to Jump down on his feet, and
awe. he ran to his gun. takes it up, and stands still.

" ell," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now? Why don't you shoot him?"
" No shoot." says Friday, " no yet; me shoot now me no kill; me stay give you one more
laugh ;" and indeed so he did, as you will see presently; for, when the bear sees his euem no,
he comes back from the bough whore he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, looking ' d
him every step, and coming backward till he got into the body of the tree; then, with the some
hinder and foremost, he came down the tree, in it with his claws, and moving one foot at
atims, very leisurely. At this juncture, an just ore he could set his hind fest upon the
ground. Friday stepped close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him
as dead as a stone.

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh, and. when he saw we were pleased
b our looks, he falls a laughingvhimselt' very loud.. " So we kill bear in my country," says

'day. " So you kill them," said I; " why, you have no guns," "No," says he, " no gun,
but shoot great much long arrow."

This was indeed a good diversion to us, but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew. The howling of wolves run much. in as head;
and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have ' some-
thing alreudy, I never heard anything that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of ni ht, called us of, or else, as Frida would have had
us, we should certainl have taken the sin: of this monstrous creature o ,whieh was worth
saving; but we had t leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him and went
forward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so (1 and dangerous as on the
mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afierw . were come down into the
forest and plain country, pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a great many of their
shoe and horses, and some people too. '

e had one dangerous place to , which, our guide told us, if there were any more
wolves in the country, we should fin them there; and this was in a small plain, surrounded
with woods on every side, and along narrow defile or lane, which we were to pass to get through
the wood, and than we should come to the village where we were to lodge. .

Itwaswithinhalfanhouroisunsetwhenweouteredthefirstwood, and ahttleaftersunset
whsnwecamo into the Elfin. We metwith nothing in thefirstwoodexcept Mmahtfle
plain within the wood, w 'eh was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross
the road, full one after another, as if they had been in chase of some prey, and had rt in
view; they no notice of us, and were gone and out of our sight in a few momenta _

Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was s wretched, fainthearted fellow, bid us keep In a
new? W, for he behaved there were more wolves a coming.

0 e t our arms ready, and our eyes about us, but we saw no more wolves till we suns
thro h twood,which was nearhalfaleague, and entered theplain; as soon sews came
into splain, wehadoocasian enou hto look aboutus. The first object we met with was a
dead horse; that is tosay,a poor hersewhich thewolves had lulled,and at leastadoxenoll
them at work--we could not say eating of him, but picking of his bones rather, for they had
eaten up all the flesh before.

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they take much notice of us.
Frida would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any means, for I found we
were lie to have more business upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not as
half over the lain but we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frig tful
manner: on presently after we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in
a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced oficers.
I scarce knew in what manner to receive them: but found to draw ourselves in a close line
was the on] way; so we formed in a moment; but, that we might not have too much interval
I ordered t rat only every other man should fire, and that the others. who had not fired should
stand read to give them a second volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon us;
and that t on t ose who had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusils again, but
stand ready, with every one a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and a pair of pistols
each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time. How-
ever, at present we had no necessity; for, upon firing the first volle , the enemy made afull
stop, being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire. Four of t em, being shot into the
head, dropped, several others were wounded, and went bleedin 05, as we could see b the
snow. Ifound they stopped, but did not immediately retreat. w eraupon remembering t I
had been told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all
our company to hulloo as loud as we could, and I found the notion not altogether mistaken, for
upon our shout they began to retire, and turn about; then I ordered a second volley to be fired
in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods.

This ve us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we might lose no time we kept
going; at we had but little more than loaded our fusils. and put ourselves into areadiness,
when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood, on our left; only that it was further onward
the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on,and the light began to be dusky, which made it the worse on
our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the bowling and
yelling of those hellish creatures; and on a sudden. we perceived two or three troops of wolves
on our left, one behind us,and one on our front,>> that we seemed to be surrounded with them;
however, as they did not fell upon us. we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our
horses go, which, the way being very rou h, was onlyla good large trot; and in this manner
we came in view of the entrance of a w through w ieh we were to pass, at the farther side
of the lain; but we were greatly surprised. when, coming nearer the lane, or pass, we saw a
confus number of wolves standing 'ust at the entrance.

On a sudden, at another opening 0 the wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and, looking that
way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on him, ilyiug like the wind, and sixteen or
seventeen wolves after him full speed; indeed. the horse had the heels of them; but as we
supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with
him at last; and no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for. riding up to the entrance where the horse
came out, we found the carer-so of another horse, and of two men devoured by the ravenous
creatures, and one of the men was no doubt the some who we heard fire the gun, for there lay a
gut: just by him fired 01!; but as to the man,bis head and the upper part of his body, was
en a up. -

This filled us with honor, and we knew not what course to take; but the creatures resolved
as soon, for the thered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there
were three hung of them. It happened very much to our advantage. that at the entrance
into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees, which had been out
down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage; I drew my little tree in
among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them 51 to
alight, and keeping that tree before us, for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre.The Life mam" vaobim Crusoe. ' :37

We did so,nnd itwsswell we did,for nsverwas amore furiouschargethan theoreahires
made nus inthe lace; theycaineonuswithagrowlinghindofnome,andmounted the
piece timber (whi as I said,wes our breast-work), as if they were only rushing upon

eir pro ;aud this furyof theirs, it seems,was principally occasioned bytheir seeing our
horses be ' us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire, as before,
e other man, and the tool: their aim so sure, that indeed they killed several of the wolves
at t first volley; but are was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like
devils, those behind ushing on those before.

When wehad fi our second volley of our fusils we thorifibt they stopped a little, and I
hoped they would have gone 05, but it was butamonient, for o are came forward again ; so we
- fired two volleys of our pistols, and I believe in these four firings, we had killed seventeen or

' hteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet they came on again.
wns loth to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not my man Friday, for
hewas better em loyed--for, with the greatest dexterit imaginable, he had charged in fusil
and his own w ' e we were engaged--but, as I said, I ed my other man, and giving ' a
horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train.
He did so, and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
got up upon it, when I snagging an unchaeigedtpiswl close to the powder, set it on fire.
hose that were upon the tiin r were scorch wi it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather
jumped in among us, with the force and fright of the fire; we despatched these in an instant,
and the rest were so frightened with the lig t, which the night, for new it was very near dark,
made more terrible, that they drew back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired of in one volle , and after that we gave a
shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immedia y upon near twenty lame
ones, who we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting them with our swords, which
answered our expectation; for the c and howling they made were better understood
by their fellows; so that theylfied and aft us.

We had, first and last, ki ed about threesome of them. and had it been daylight, we had
killed many more. The field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had
still near a. league to go; we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yellin the woods as we went,
several times, and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our ,
we were not urtsin; so in about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for it seems that, the night before, g
wolves and some bears had broken into the ' in the night, and put them in a terrible
fright; and they were obliged to keep guard nig t and day, but especially in the night, to
preserve their cattle, and, indeed, th ' 'people.

The next morning our guide was so ' , and his limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could !go no further; so we were obliged to take a new guide there, and. go to
Thoulonse, where we ound a warm climate, it fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, or anything like them; but when we told our story at Thoulouse, they told us it was

nothing but what was ordinsrguin the great forest at the foot of the mountains, y when
the snow lay on the ground; t they inquired much what lrind of a guide we h gotten, that
would venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and told us it was a chance

we were not all devoured. When we told them how we placed ourselves, and. e horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was fiftytoone but we hsd'been all
destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their

rey, and that at other times they are really afraid of a gun, but the being excessive

 

ungry, and raging on that account, the srness to come at the horses had made them .

senseless of danger; and that if we had no by the continued fire, and at last by the
stratagem of the train of powder. mastered them, it had been great odds but that we
had been torn to pieces; whereaahadwe been content to have set still on horseback, and
fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses so much for theirpwn, when men
were on their books, as otherwise; and withsl they told us, that at last if we had stood
altogether, and left our horses, they would have been so eager to have devoured them, that

 

e: 3' It;
mks-rim" "
we might have come oi! safe, especially having our firearms in our hands and being so
"is" m ""22"; 'm rd ' lit 1 seeing be u: a dred

'or m was never so sens: e o anger in my e. or. ' a ve res uu
devils coir-garnering arid open-mouthed to devour us, and haviufi no ing to shelter us, or
retreat to, I gave myself over for lost- and as it was, I believe shall never ears to cross
those mountains again. I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues by see, though I
were sure to meet with a storm once a week. .

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in m passage tliro'ugh France; nothing but
what other travellers have 'von an account of, wit much more vantage than I can. I
travelled from Tlioulouse to aris, and without any considerable stay, come to Calais, and
landold sate at Dover, the fourteenth of January, after having had a severe cold season to
trove in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels. and had in a little time all my new discovered
cstaite safe about me, the bills of exchange, which I brought with me, having been very currently
pun .

My princi 1 guide and privy councillor was my good ancient widow,who, in gratitude for the
money I h sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great. to employ for me; and I
trusted her so entirely with overythin . that I was perfectly easy as to the security of m
effects; and indeed I was very happy rem my beginning, and new to the end, in the nnspo
integrity of this good gentlewoman.

And now I began to think of leaving my eil'octs with this woman, and setting out for Lisbon,
and so to the Brnzils: but now another scruple came in the way, and that was me ; for as
I had entertained some doubts about the Roman religion. even while I was ab , especially
in my state of solitude; so I knew there was no going to the Brazils for me. much less going
to settle there. unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic religion, without any reserve;
unless on the other hand 1 resolved to be a sacrifice to my princi les, be a martyr for religion.
and die in the Inquisition: so I resolved to stay at home. and ' I could find means for it, to
dis so of my plantation.

' 0 this purpose 1 wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who in return gave me notice that he
could easil dispose of it there: but that ii I thought fit to give him leave to ofl'er it in my
name to ie two merchants. the survivors of my trustees who lived in the Brazils, who must
fall understand the value of it, who lived just upon the t. and who I know were very rich,
no t at he believed they would he fond of buying it; he ' not doubt, but I should make 4000
or 5000 )ieces of eight the more of it.

Acco 'ngly I agreed. gave him order to offer it to them, and he did so; and in about eight
months more. the ship beiu then returned, he sent me account that they had accepted the
pil'er, and had remitted 33, pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay

or it.

In return I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent
it to my old man, who sent me bills of exchange for 32.800 pieces of eight for the estate;
reserving the payment of 100 moidores a year to him (the 01 man) during his life. and 50
moidores afterwardsto his son for his life. which I had promised them; which the plantation
was to make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have 'ven the first part of a life of fortune
and adventure, a life of Previdenco's ehcquer-work, an of avariety which the world will seldom
be able to show the like of : beginnin foolishly. but closing much more happily than any- part
of it ever gave me leave so much as to ope for.

Anyone would think, that in this shite of com heated good fortune, I was past rennin any
more hazards, and so indeed I had been, if 0 er circumstances had. concurred: but was

aural to a wandering life, had no family. not men relations; nor, however rich, had I con-
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sol my estate in the Brazils. yet I could not
kezpthe eountryoutofmyheadmnd hada tmindtobeonthewingagaimespeciallyI
co d'not resist the strong inclination 1 h to see in island, and to know if the poor
Spaniards were in being there, and how the rogues I left ere had used them.

My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me from it. and so for prevailed with me, that
almost for sevenyesrsshs tedm runmng' abread-duringwhiehtimsItoekm two
mphewgthechildrenofone mybrotheriintom cereztheeldesthaving ' oyfhis
own.Ihrednpnsagentlsmeu,andgnvehima entotsomesdditiontohis afiel'
mydecease;theotherlputouttoaca ' ofaship;endaPSterfiveyears,findinghima
sensible,bold.enter&risingioungfsllcw, puthiminto aged ship,andsent him human!

thieyoungfellowa drewmsm,asoldas1was, tarthsradventuresm

Inthemeantime,' Ihmtfledmyselfhmderjrstofalldmmed.' and noteither
to my disadvantage or ' 'on. and had three children, two sons and one daughter : but
my wife dying. and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my
inclination to go abroad, and his in rtunity. prevailed. and engaged me to go in his ship as
a. private trader to the East Indies. ' was in the year 1694. '

nthisvoyagelvisifedmy newcolo iuthe island,saw mysnceessors iheSpeniardnh-d
"'deg "'SSdeg'deg "" if "E "W .83," "$323" "'23 "W 3'32" "" "as, $
1- ' , ow . ' uni sc , an ow at
paniardswereobligedetzuseviolencewiththem; howtheywere subjected to the Spaninrds:
howhonestlytho Spanisrdsusedthem; ahistory,ifitwereentszedinto,ssfullofverietyend
wonderful accidents as my own ; particulerl also as to their battles with the Caribbean,
who landed several times upon e island, andas the improvement they made upon the island
itself; and how five of them made an attempt upon the main land, and brought away elevenmen
andfigomen prisoners; by which, at my coming, I found about twenty young children on

e I

Here I stayed about twen de ; left them supplies 0! all necessary thmgs,' and parh'culnrl
of arms, powder. shot, cloth: too and two workmen, which I bronghtfrom England with me';
viz. a carpenter and u smith.

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with them, reserved to myzeli' the propefi of the
whole, but gave them such parts, m 'vely, as they lexecs! on; and ving settled things
with them, and engaged them not to save the place. them there. .

From thence I touched at the Brezils, from whence I sent a. bark, which I bought them, with
more people, to the island; and in it, besides other so plies, I sent seven women, being such as
I found roper for service, or for wivesto such as wo d take them. As to the Englishmen, I
Eomnei' themtosend them some women fromEngland,witha good mo of neeessanes,' it

would apply themselves to ting; which I afterwards ormed : the fellows proved
very honest and diligent, after were and had air mperties set apart for them.
Isentthemalso fromtheBruilsjvecows, threes! themheingfigwith coltsomeshespmnd
some h which, when I came again. were considerably increased.

But these things, with an account how 300 Oarihbees came and invaded them. and ruined
their PSlautetione, and how they fought withthat whole number twice, and were at firstdeieated
and reeof themkilled; but at lest a ltormdeetroying their enemise'canoes,theyfamished

erdeshosdantherestandrenewedand thepoesesswn' eitheir huhtiomand.
still livedyupou the island. p
All these ' , with some very surprising incidents in some new adventures of my own, for

ten years more, may, perhaps, give a further account ofhsreafier.
FARTHEB ADVENTURES

0'

ROBINSON CRUSOE.h ' , .A . , ' , . .. .. Luau
Tu: nccmthcfomorpurtofthiaWorkhumetwithinthe world,huyotheenuootharthuu

inohwwlodgodho be due to the surprising vuiety of the subject, and to the with manner
of the performance.

Allthendeavourso! envious people to reproach it with being alumnae," {arch it for
error: in googxuphy, inocuishnoy in the rclnfinnmud contradicfiouinthe facthavepmcd
uhcrtivownduimpomtumdicioua. -

Thojust upplieafiou of every incident. the religious And useful inference: drunken: every
Mimicmytufimouiubthegooddedgnofmufingitpubfiqmdmmkgifimm
thepurtthutmybccdlodiuvenfiauorpunhlainthaatory.

TthocoudPamiftthditor's opinionmy pm. is (contnryfothcmgecf Second
Park) overyny u enkthining no the Mmhinluitrunge and. marking incidents.

butmcdoumiorthaiufiniuadmugootthcnudm

BychinheyluvothoWork ulkcdofihhn'ghmtornmenb; nuitfiaywwuutthom
fimmmithmthoAuflm-hunuppliadfla ltoryoutofhi-invonfiomthayhkchonitthc
impmvmtwhichdonomomdsminuufioutcwiumdgoodmen.

ntheycannot shown, dihumeintho cfimthaywfll findithudto nhuwwhytham
shouldbouuydifi'mminthapunishmt: mdhowfllmbrihthutnothinglhdlho
mfingonhhputtodothmjwfico.

 

 

mum

.ILFARTHER ADVENTURES

0!

ROBINSON CBUSOE.

_.__
Tin! home] rover-b need on so meuy occasions in Eu lend. viz. That whet is bred ' th
bone will no! "I; out of the flesh, was never more verified the ' m e

~ _ n in the storz of my LIFE. Any
one would think that utter thirty-fimyeers' nflliehon, and e variety of un up y circumstances,

which few men, it any, everweut through before, end after near seven yours 0 peace sud enjo .
ment in the fulness of ell things, we old, and when. if ever. it might be ellowed me is
have hed experience of eve m 0 middle life. and to know which was moei eds ted to rueke
u men completely happy; eey, utter ell this. any one would heve thought the: the netive

ropensicy no rumbling, which I gave en account of in my first setting out into the world to
Beve been so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile be full
evacuated, or at. least condensed, end I will: at sixty-oneyeere of egeheve been e 'tfle unlined
to stay at home, end have done venturing ' and fortune any more.

Key, further, the common motive of fonifidsdventuree was token ewey in me; for I had no
fortune to make. I hed nothing!>> seek; it I gained 10,000!., I hsd heenno richer; for I had
elreedy euflicientforme. end forthoselhed ioleeveitto; endthetI lied wes visihlyinereesing;
forhevingnogreet 'EIconldnotspendtheincomeofwhetIhedunleestouldsetup
for en expensive we of 'ving. such es ole-teat M. y, servente, we. gerot' y. end the like,
whiehwerethi I dnonoh'on o!.or Inclination to; sothetl nothmgindeedtodobut
to siestill, end ullyenfl'gwhet Ihedgohendseeitinoreesedeil nponmyhends.

Yet all these things no eflectupcn me, or etleeetnot euoug to resist the strong incline-
tion I had to go ebroed egein. which hung ehoni. me like echronicel disrernper; pertioulerly
the desired "fell? mEnew plentetionrntheislend, eudthe colonyI lefttlrere. ruin
my heed contin y. dreemedofitell 'hhsndmyimegiustionrnnuponitelldeyfit
was uppermost in ell my thoughts, end mymgnoy worked so steadily end strengl upon it,
thetltelked of it in my sleep: in short. nothin could remove it out of mynnu Heaven
broke so violentl into all my discourses. that it my convereefion tiresome; for I could talk
ofnoehing else, In discourse run into it. even to imarfiuenee. end I new W .

Ihsveoften personsorgoodjndgmentse. .tellthesfirpeog: eintheworld
about ghosts end epperifions is owing to the size of rmegrnehon, end powerful operefiem

of feno inthezrmrndsgflretthereisnosuoh ' uespirieeppeeringmre hoetwulhng,
endthe'like; thetpeo le's Weefimetefiu nthe eonversetionodgtheirdeceesed
friendssoreeliresit them, they-re loot gnponsomsextnerdinery
circumstancesthetiheysuthmhlktothem,enderemweredhyihem.whenin1n-uflr,thm
ieuothingbntshedoweudvepourinthething;endtheyreellyknownathingoffhemeeur.- .

Fermymlhewnotfathishour,whe erthereereeny suehthingsesreelezgnhons,
spectra," wdfingofpwpleeflertheymdndorwlmherthereisenythingin stories
they tell us of thnt hind. more than the product of vapours. siolr minds. and wondering fnneios.
llut this I know. thnt m imagination worked up to such it height. and brought me Into snoh
ocstiuiii-s ul'vnlxmrs. or w mi. else I mny call it. tlmt lnotunlly supposed m selfoflontimos upon
the u rot. of. my old omitlo behind the trees. sow my old - inrnrd. Fri n 's fnther.ond the
ropro uth-Nuilnrfl whom I loll. upon the islnnd; uuy. l fancied . tulked with om.nud looked on
them so stvudily. though I won lmnul uwnku. us ut persons just before mo; and thisl did.
till 1 often frightened myself with tho imngos my l'nney represented to me; one time in my nice
I hml I-ln- villnny of tho three pimhy sailors so live yre Mod in me by the first Speninrd nu
l"ridny's l'nthor, thnl. it won surprising: they told me how they borhurously attempted to
murder oil the Spnniurds, nd thnt they set lire to the provisions they had lnid up, on purpose
to distwss mnl stnrvo lvln-m. lhings thnt I had never heard of. and that, indeed. were never all
of them true in (wt; but it wru- so worm in my inmxinntiou. and so mlized tome, thotto
the hour I snw them. I ronld not be pemmded but thut it was or would be true; also how I
rowntml it when tlnI Spuninnl complninod to mo. and how I brought them to justioe. tried
them before me. und ordered tluuu nll three to he hanged: wlutt there was really in this, shall
be soon in its plm-o; for however I come to form such things in my dream, and what secret
converse of sprritn iujocled it. yet there wus ver much of it true. I soy. I own, that "Ill
drenm had nothing lilornlly nnd speoiIii-nlly true; nt the general nut wnsso true. the buso nnd
villnnons bohnviour of these three lmrdoucd rogues was such. nnd ml been so much worse than
nll 1 sun describe. thth the droum luul too much similitudo of the feet: and us I would alter-
wnnls lnwo nmishod them sew'fl'ly. so if I hnd hnn rod tln-m oil. 1 bod been much in the right.
and should lnwo [men justilinl-Io both by the laws 0 God mnl mun.

llnt to return to m story. In this kind of tom rl hnd lived some cars; I had no enjoy-
ment of my lilo. no p onsnnt hour-s. no ngmeuble I iversion but whet h something orother of
this in it. so tlmt my wife. who saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one
night. tlmt she ln'liuved there was some secret power lll iulpu so of Providence upon mmwhioh
hml dohrminod me to go thither u do ; end that she found nothing hindered mydgoing but my
being ongn 'ed to n wife nud chili ron. She told me. that it was true she can not think of
[sirtmg wit: mo; but us she won nssnrod'. that if she won dead it would be the first thing I
would do: so. us it seemed to her thnt the thing was determined nbove. she would not be the
only ohstruvtion: for if I thought lit. mnl resolved to go.--horo she found me nor intent upon
her words. mnl thnt I looked very enrneslly nt her; so that it 0. little disorderoifher, nnd she
stopped. I nslzod her why she did not go on. end my out whut she was going to any P But
I perceived her heart was too full. mnl some tours stood in her 0 cs. "Spook out, my
door." suid l. " are you willing lshonld go?" " No." says she, vorynlfcctlonntely, "I nmfur from
willing; but if you um resoh-<<l lo ve." snys she. " mnl rather than I will be the only hindrance.
I will go with you; for though I think it. o prewsterous thing for one of your eors,ond in
your condition. yet if it must be." snid she ngm'n. weeping. " I won't leave you; or if it be of
llenven. you must do it: tln-m is no resisting it; end if Heaven makes it your duty to go, 110
will nlso muko it mine to go with you. or otherwise dispose of me. that I may not obstruct it."

This nlliwliounlo boluwrour of m ' wife's brought me u little out of the vapours. end I begun
to consider whut I wns doing: l i-orrwted my wondering font-y. nnd begun to e ue with
myself sniutely. wlmt business 1 hnd. nltor thrwscore yours. and ufler such is life 0 tedious
sufferings mnl disasters. and closed in so happy nud easy a. manner. I my. whet business I lunl
to rush into new lnmmls. and put myself upon ndvontums. fit only for youth and poverty to
run into P

With those thoughts. 1 considered my new enlargement: tlmt I hnd n wife. one child born,
mnl my wife then grout with ohild of unother: thnt l bud all the world could give me. and lmd
no need In seek lmziuds for in; thnt l was declining in year's, end ought to think rather of
leeviug whnt 1 lord gained t on of seeking to increase it; that no to whnt In wife had said,
of its living on impulse from Heaven. and that it shonldhe my duty to go. bud no notion
of thnt: so nl'tor mnuy of these cogimtions, I struggled with the power of my imagination,
reasoned myself out of it. as I believe people mny always do in like cases. if they will: and. in
sword, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts.
and which my 0present condition furnished me lentifull with: and particularly, as the most
sifectual meth , I resolved to divert myself wi other iugs, and to e in some business
that might efl'eotnully tie me up from any more excursions of this ' d; for I found the
thing return a a me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do,or anything of moment
immediately be are me.

To this 11on bought a little form in the county of Redford, and resolvedto remove myself
thither. had a little convenient house upon it. and the loud about it I found was capable
of great improvement, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted in
cultivatin , managing, lanting, and improving of land; and particularly, being an inland
country, was remov from conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the
remote part of the world.

In a word. I went down to my farm, settled my family. hon ht me ploughs. hnnows, 9. out,
waggon, horses. cows, sheep; and setting seriously to work, in one half year. a more
country gentleman; my thoughts were cntirsolg taken up in managing my sermnte, cultivating
the ground, enclosing. plunting, rho, and I liv , as I thought, the most agreeable lifethat nature
m? meals of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of being
re ren .

I formedupon to own land, I had no rent to pey,wnslimitedhynoartioles, Ieenldpull
up or out down as {plenum what I planted was for myself, and what I he rovedyss for my
family; and having us left 08 the thoughts of wondering, I had not the eastdrsoomfortin
any Kn. of my life, as to this world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state
of 1' that my father so early roeommendedto me,n kind of heavenly life, somethmg like
whet is described by the poet upon the subject of a country life :--

"Freefrom vices. free from ears.
Age has no pain, and youth no snare."

But in the middle of all this felicity. one blow from unforeseen Providence unhinged ms at
ones; and not 1:znlydmnde a bmifiltlo u me:i inevitable an: incur-PS121: bnti drove me, me.
so nense,ins relapse ewnnenndisposionzw ,as mass,
bonrheqm my very bl , soon recovered its hold fit me, and, like the returns hf uyvioleng
distemper, same on with an irresistible force upon me; so. that nothing could make any more
in ression upon me. This blow was the loss 0 my wife.

tisnotmybusinesshemtowriteanelegynponmywifatogiveaeharaoiorofher
particular virtues.and makem court to the sex bythe fiatieryof a funeral semen. She
was,in efew words. thestuyo dimyafieimtheeenheoffllmyenterpfisatheenginethet
by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous reject that fluttered in my end as above; and did more ton-fluids my rambling
genius, than a mother's fears. a father's instructions,a friend's oounsel, or my own reasoning
powerseonlddo. Iwashappyin listeningto herteamandinbeing moved byherentreahes,
and to thelset domes desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss of her. .

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I was as much a in it.
in mythonghhaslw'asinthehruilswhenl went first onehorethexe; and asmu
ex sstotheueisteneeofservants,sslwnsinmyislend. Ilmewnextherwhattodo,
orw tnottodo. Isawthe worldhusymudmaonepurthboufingforheadandtheoflier
part squander-lug invile excesses or empty pleasures, equally miserable, hepause the end
thaypropoeed stull lied from them; {or the mono! pleasure everydaysurfeited of his 'ee,
an esped up work for sorrow and repentance; and 'the men of labour spent . sir
strength in duly struggling for bread to maintain the Vital strengththey leboured th:
so livingin a defiaoircnlshon of sorrow,livin but to work._e.ndworlnx' at to hve,_as i!
dsilybresdwere oulysndofwenrisome aandaweansouneliie onlyooesmot

put me in mind at thelifeIlivedinm kingdomthsislandzwhm Irsuflered no
moreoorntogmwheeaussldidnotwantit; Ira hrednomere geomheoauulhednemem
x
use for them: where the money lay in the drawer till it grew moaldy, and had scam the
favour to be looked upon in tweut years. '

All these things, had I improv them as I oughtto have done, and as reason and religion
had dictated to me, would have taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for a. full
felicity. and that there was something which certainly was the reason and en of life, su rior
to all these things, and which was either to he possessed, or at least hoped for, on this si e the

ve

sight in sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship without a pilot, that could only run before
the win ; my thoughts run all away a in into the old afl'air, my head was quite turned with
the whimsies of foreign adventure an all the leasant innocent amusements of m farm and
my garden. my cattle, and my family, which be ore entirely ssessed me. were no ing to me,
had no relish, and were like music to one that has no car, or cod to one that has no taste. In
a word, I resolved to leave ofi' house-keeping, let my form, and. return to London: and in a few
months after I did so. -

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I had no relish to the place,
no em lo meat in it. nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle rsou, of whom it may
be sais, go is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one fu iug matter to the rest
of his kind, whether he be dead. or alive. This also was the life which of all circumstances of
life was the meet my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
olteu say to myself, " A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;" and, indeed, I
fight I was much more suitably employed, when I was twenty-six days a making me a deal

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, who, as I have observed before,
I had brought up to the sea. and had made him common er of a ship, was some home from
a short voyage to Bilbou, being the first he had made. He came to me, and told me, that some
merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East
. Indies and to China as private traders; "And now, uncle," says he, " if you will go to sea with

:rBue. Ilwill engage to Ian you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to touch at the

Fall 8.

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of the existence of an invisible
world, than the concurrence of second causes with the ideas of things which we form in our
minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in the world.

My no how knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was returned upon me. and I
knew not ' of what he had in his thoughts to say, when that very morning before he came
to me I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circum-
stances in my mind, come to this resolution, viz. That I would go to Lisbon, and consult with
my old sea captain; and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would and see the island
again, and see what was become of my people there. I had pleased myse with the thoughts
of pling the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the ssession,
an I know not what; when in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I ave said,
with his project of carrying me thither, in his way to the East Indies. _

I paused a while at his words, and looking steadily at him, " What devil," said I, " sent
you of this unlucky errand P" My nephew stared as it he had been frightened at first; but
perceiving I was not much displeased with the pro , he recovered himself. " I hope it
may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says he; " dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there. where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your brother
monarchs in the world."

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my tern r, that is to say, the pimpossession I
was under. and of which I have said so much, that I to d him in few words, it e agreed with
the merchants I would go with him; but I told him I would not wise to go an further
than my own island. " Why, sir," says he. " you don't want to he oft there again. hope?"
" Why, ' said I, " can on not take me up again on your return P" He told me it could not be
possible that the me ants would allow him to come that way with a loaden shi of such
value, it being a month's sail out of his way, and might be three or tour. " Besi es, sir, if
I should alimony}: said he, " and not return at all, then you would be just reducedtothe
condition you were in before."

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it, which was to a
framed sloop on board the ship, which. being taken in pieces and shipped on board the ip,
might by the hel of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up again in the -
island-,andfinie .fittogotoseaflnafewdays. '
.I was not long resolving; for indeed the importunities of my no how joined in so ed'sotunll
vnth mgoilnclination, that nothing could oppose me. On the other-grand, my wife being dead}
had no y concerned themselves so much or me, as to persuade me one way or other, except
my ancient good friend the widow. who earnestl struggled with me to consider my years, my
easy circumstances, and the needless hazard of a ong voyage, and above all, my young children.
Butitwasulltonopu Ihadanirresistibledesirstothevoage;andltoldher1
thought there was some ' so uncommon in the impressions I upon my mind for the
we age, that it would he a kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to stay at home.
Age:- which she cased her expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making provision
{or my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in my aheancaand providing for-the
education of my children.

In ordertothis, I made In will, and settled the estate I hadin such a manner for my
children, and laced in such ds, that I was rfectl easy and satisfied they would have
justice done t em whatever might befall me; a for air education. I left it wholl to m
widow, with a suficieut maintenance to herself for her care. All which she richly (goons-iv,
for no mother could have taken more care in their education, or understand it better; and as
she lived till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the ' ' of January 1694-5, and I with my man
Friday went on board in the Downs the 8th, having 'des that sloop which I mentioned above,
a very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my colony, which if I did not find
in sod condition, I resolved to leave so.

'rst, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place there, as inhabitants, or
at least to set on work there upon my own account, while I stayed, and either to leave them
there, or carry them forward, as they should up willing; particularly, I carried two car-
penters, a smith, and a very hand ingenious! ow who was a coo by trade, but was also
a "we"; '3' m" ,"emerimmmfim *deg mum
wasa urner,a.n a pa in er; eau g wasproperto e
earth, or ofwood; inaword wecalled him our Jack ofnll trades.

WiththeseIcarriedatsilor,whohadofiered himselftogo gel-to the EastIndies
with my nephew, but afterwards consented f0 stay on our new tatron, and proved a meet
necessary handy fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides that of this
trade; for, as I observed former] , necessity arms as for all employments.

My cargo, as near as Ican co set, for I have not kept an account of the partieulm,.con-
sisted of a suficient quantity of linen, and some thin En liah studs for ' the S
that I expected to find there, and enough of them as y my calculation mig' t comfortably
supply them for seven years; if I remember ri ht, the materials which I carried for clothing
them, with loves, hats, shoes, stockings, and a1? such things as they could want for w ,
amounted a) above 2001., including some beds, bedding, and household-stufi, particular;
kitchen utensils, with pots. kettles, pewter, brass, do, and near a 100 pound more in
iron-wofrk, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing I could
think 0 .

magazine of all sorts stores; and , . '
more than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, at there _
there, we might build a fort, and man it sgamst all sorts of enemies;
thought there would he need enough of it all. and much more, if we hoped to maintain our
possession of the island. as shall be seen in the course of the story.

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as 1 had been used to meet with; and, therefore.

' shall have the lean occasion to interrupt the reader, who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear
how matters went with my colony; yet some odd accidents,eross winds, and bad weather hap-
pened. on this first setting out, which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first; and

. who had never made but one voyage, viz. my firstvoya o to Guinea. in which I might be said
to come back again. as the voyage was at first designed, began to think the same I" fate still
attended me: and that l was born to he never contented with being on shore, and yetto be
always unfortunate at sea.

Contrary winds first put up to tho northward, and we were obliged to put in at Galway. in
Ireland. where we lay -' ul-bonnd two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster. that prov one were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so that
while we lay here we never touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them; here also 1
tool: in several live hogs. and two cows. and calves. which I resolved, if I had a good passage,
to rut on shore in my island ; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.

1 'o set out the 5th of February from lrelaud, and had a very fair gale of wind for some days.
As I remember, it might be about the '_'0th of Febrnar . in the evening late, when the mate
having the watch. came into the round-house. and tub us he saw a flush of tire, and hmrd
a. gun tired : and while he was telling us of it, a boy came in, aml told us the boatswain heard
another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where for a while we heard nothin I.
but in a few minutes we saw u very great light. and found that there was some very terrib e
fire at a distance; immediately we had recourse to our reckoniugs, in which we all agreed that
there could be no lmul that way. in which the fire showed itself. no, not for 500 leagues. for it
appeared at W.N.\\'. Upon this we concluded it must be some ship on tire at sea; and as by
our hearing the noise of guns just before. we concluded it could not be far off, wostood directly
towards it. and were presentl satisfied we should discover it, because the farther we sailed, the

ter the light up mared, t mugh the weather being hazy we could not erceive an thing but

0 light for a whi e; in about half an hour's sailing. the wind being air for as, t ough not
much of it. and the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a great
shif) on fire in the middle of the sea.

was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all acquainted with the persons
engaged in it; I presently recollcctcd my former circumstances. in what condition I was in
when taken up by lhe Portugal captain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be if the had no other ship in company with
them: upon this I imnu-diaicly ordered that live guns 8 ould be fired. one soon after another,
that, if lmible, we might give notice to them that there was help for them at hand. and that
they might endeavour to save themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flame of
the ship. yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.

We lay by scale time upon this. only driving as the banning ship drove, waiting for da light;
when on a sudden. to our great terror. though we had reason to expect it, the sliis'bew up
in the air, and innuediately, that is to say, in a few minutes, all the fire was out, and 9 rest of
the ship sunk : this was a terrible. and, indeed. an nlllicting si ht. for the sake of the poor men
who, 1 concluded. must be either all destroyed in the ship. or in the utmost distress in their
boat in the middle of the ocean. which at resent. b reason it was dark. I could notsee; how-
ever. to direct them as well as I could. i) caused ights to be hung out in all the parts of the
ship where we could, and which we had lanthorns for: and kept firing guns all the night long;
letting them know b this. that there was a ship not far 01?.

About eight o'elm- - in the morning. we discovered the ship's beats. by the help of our per-
spective glasses; found there were two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water; we perceived they rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw our ship. and did
their utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our ancient. to let them know we saw them; and hung a waft out,
as a signal for them to come on board; and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In a little more than half an hour, we came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for there were a rsatman gasengers.
U n the whole we found it was a French merchant-ship of 300 ton, mower; and re

Quehze, in the river of Canada. .

The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship. how the fire began in the
steera'g'e by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his crying out for help. was, as everybody
thong t, entime put out: when they found that some spar s of the first fire had got into some
part of the ship. sodilfieult to come at, that they could not effectually quench it; till e '

In between the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the he (1,
mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to their great comfort, were
pretty large; being their long boat. and a great shallop. besides a small skid} which was of no

serviw to them, other than to get some fresh water and p'rovisious into her, after th

secured their lives from the fire. They had. indeed. small ope of their lives by '

into these boats at that distance from any land: only, as they said well, that they were esoa
from the fire, and had a possibility, that some ship might happen to be at sea and might take
them in. The had sails, oars, and a compass; and were preparin to make the bestof their
we back to ewi'oundland, the wind blowing pretty fair; for it law an my gale at 8.11
by . They had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it so as to be next door to
starving, nught sup rt them about twelve days; in which, if they had no bad weather, and
no cont winds, ta captain said, he hoped he might get to the banks of Newfoundland, and
might, r nps, take some fish to sustain them till they might go on shore. But there were so
many e s against them in all these cases; such as storms to over-set and founder them;
rains and cold to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and starve
them; that it must have been next to miraculous if they had escaped.

In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless, and ready to despair, the captain
with tears in his eyes told me. they were on a. sudden surprised with the Joy 0 heariu a in;
fire, and after that four more: these were the five guns which I caused to be fireg at
seeing the light: this revived their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired
it should, viz. that there was a ship at hand for their he

I . .
It was upon the hearing these guns that they took gown their masts and soils; the sound

coming from the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time afier this, h '
no more guns, they fired three mushets. one a considerable while after another; but these, the
wind being contrary, we never heard. . . _

Some time after that again. th were still more agreeably surprised wrth seeing our light},
and hearing the guns, which. as have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of the night: the
set them to work with their oars to keep their boats til-head, at least that we might the sooner
come up with them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw_ them. _

It is Impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange .ecstasres, the vanety of
postures, which these poor dehveredfpsople run into, to express the Joy of their souls at so
unexpected a deliverance. Grief and ear .
few motions of the head and hands, make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of Joy, a
surprise of joy, has a thousand cxtravaganees in it; there were some in tears, some raging and
tearing ves, as if they had been in the greatest agony of sorrow; someotarlrravmg and
dowunght lunatic; some ran about the ship starn ing with their feet, others . 3 then-
hands; some were d ' ,somesinging,somelang ' ,morecryrng; man qmte_umb,not
able to speak a word; oxen sick and vomiting, seve swoonmg and y to faint; and a
few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong then neither; there might be many that were thankful aflerward; but

the passion was too strong for them at first; and they were not able to master it; they were '

thrown mtoecstaaiesandakindoffrenzy,anditwashut a veryfew thatwere composedand
serious in their joy. . _

Perhaals the case may have some addition to it, from the particular circumstance of that
nation ey belonged to; I mean the French, whose temper rs allowed to be more volatile,

are easily described; sighsfieamgroans, and every-
more passionate, and more sprightly. and their spirits more fluid, than in other nations. I am
not philosopher enough to determine the cause, but nothi I had over soon before some up to
it: the ecstnsies poor Friday. my trusty savage, was in. w on he found his father in the boat.
came the neamt to it; and the surprise of the master. and his two companions. whom I deli-
vered from the villains that not them on shore in the island, came a little way towards it; but
nothing was to compare to this. either that I saw in Friday or anywhere else In my life.

It is further observable. that these extravagauees did not show themselves in that dilferent
manner I have mentioned. in dill'oreut persons only: but all the variety would aipear in a
short sIu-m-ssiou of moments. in one and the some )erson. A man that we saw t ls minute
dumb. and. as it were. stupid and confounded. shonh the next minute be dancing and hallooiug
like an antic: and the next moment be touring his hair, or pulling his clothes to ieeea, and
stamping them under his feet like a madman: a few momenta after that. we shoul have him
all in tears. then sick.tben swoonmg; and had not immediate help been had. would in a few
moments more have been dead ; and thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with
the reatest part of them: and, if I remember right. our surgeon was obliged to lot above thirty
of 1. mm blood.

There were two priests anion v them. one an old man, aml the other a young man; and that
which was strangest w. . that t e oldest man was the worst.

All men as he set his footou board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down stone-
dead, to all appearance: not the least sign of life could be perceived in him; our surgeon
immediately applied proper remedies to recover him; and was the eel man in the ship that
believed he was not dead: and at length he opened a vein in his arm. avin first ehnfed and
rubbed the part. so as to warm it as much as possible: upon this the blood, w ich only dropped
at first. llowed something fmely: in three minutes alter. the man opened his eyes; and a at
aquarter of an hour after that. he spoke. grew better, and quite well: after the blood was
stopped he walked about. tohl us he was perfectly well, took a dram of cordial which the sur-
geon gavohim. and was what we call come to himself ; about a quarter of an hour after, they
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French woman that had
fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had a tomvolvo the
change of his circumstance. and again this put him into an ecstasy of joy: is spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them; the blood grew hot and feverish; and the
man was as lit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it; the surgeon would not bleed
him again in that condition. but gave him something to doze and put him to sleep. which, after
some time. operated u '0" him. and he waked the next morning perfectly composed and well.

The younger priest dawn] with great command of his )assions, an was really an exam lo
of a serious well-governed mind; at his tirst coming on an! the ship. he threw himself tat
on his face. prostrating himself in tlumkl'uluess for his deliverance; in which I unhappil and
unmisonably disturbed him. really thinking he had been in aswoou; but he spoke on mly;
thanked mo; told me he was givin 1 God thanks for his deliverance; begged me to leave him a
few moments, and that, next to his aker. he would 'vo me thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him; on not only left him. but ke t others from
interrupting him also; he continued in that posture about three minutes, or a little more, after
I left llllll: then came to me. as he had said he would. and, with a at deal of seriousness and
afl'ection. but with tears in his eyes. thanked me, that had, under . iron him and so man
miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no room to move has totth God for i ,
rather than me; but I added that it was nothing but what reason and lmmunity dictated to all
men. and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so for
as to make us the instruments of His mercy to so many of His creatures.

After this the young priest applied himself to his cone folks; laboured to compose them;
persuaded. eutrooted. argued. reasoned with them, and did is utmost to keep them within the
exercise of their reason; and with some he had suceoa, though others were. for a time. out of
all vomment of themselves.

cannot help committing this to writing. as perhagls it may be useful to those into whose
hands it may fall, for the guiding themse ves inall e extravagance- of their passions; for
if an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason, what
will not the extrevngancee of anger-tress. and a provoked mind, carry us to? And indeed, here
I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as well those of
joy and satisfaction. as those of sorrow and anger. '

We were some ' disordered by those extravagances among our new guests for the first
day; but when they been. retired. lodgings provided for them as well as our ship would
allow, "Ellie they had slept heartily, as most of them did, they were quite another sort 0 people

0 nor y.

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness shown them, was
wanting; the French. it is known, are naturallynapt enou h to exceed that way. The captain,
and one of the priests. came to me the next y; and desiring to speak with me and my
nephew. the commander, began to consult with us what should he done with them; and first
the told us. that, as we had saved their lives, so all we had was little enough for a return to
us or that kindness received. The captain said, they had saved some money and some things
of value in their boots, catched hastily up out of the flames; and if we would accept it. they
were ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired to he set on shore somewhere in
our way. where, if possible. they mi ht get passage to France. _

My nephew was for ucceptin eir mone at first word. and to consider what to do with
them afterwards: but I ove ed him in t part; for I knew what it was to be set on
shore in a strange country; and if the Portugal captain that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all had for my deliverance. I must have starved. or have been as much 5 slave
at the Emile, as I had been in Barbary,the beinfi'sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps
a Porhigueee is not much a. better master than a nrk, if not. in some cases. a much worse.

I therefore told the French captain, that we had taken them up in their distress, it was true;
but that it was our duty to do so. as we were fellow-creatures. and as we would desire to be
so delivered. if we were in the like or any other extremity; that we had done nothing for them,
but what we believed the would have done for us if we had been in their case, andthey in
ours; but that we took t em u to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most
barbarous thing to take that li from them which they had saved out o! the fire, and then
set them on shore and leave them; that this would he first to save them from death. and then
kill them ourselves; save them from drowning, end then abandon them to starving; and there-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to setting them on shore, I told
them. indeed, that was an exceeding dilfieulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East
Indies; and though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very great way, and
perhaps was directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance. yet it was impossible for as
will' y to chan our voyage on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,
answer it to the reighters. with whom he was under charterparty to pursue his voyage by the
whale! Brazils; and all I knew hscould do for them was. to put ourselves in the way _0 meeting.
\vi other ehi hemeward-bound from the West Indies, and get them passage, if possible,
to England or 'runce.

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind. they could not but be very thankful
for it: but they were in very great consternation. especially the passe , at the notrop of
being carried away to the East Indies: und they then entreated me, the. seeing I was driven
so far to the westward before I met with them, 1 would at least keep on the same course to the
banks of Newfoundland, where it was robeble I might meet with some ship or sloop thatthey
might hire to carry them back to Can from whence they came. . .

thought this was but a reasonable request on their part; and therefore I inclined to
agree to it: for indeed I considered. that to carry this whole company to the East Indies, would
not only be an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would he ruining our whole
voyage by devouring all our provisions; so thought it no breach of charter- . but
what an unforeseen accident made absolutely neoeeseryfo us; and 'P which
we were to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have forbid that
to take up two hosts full of "05:1. in such a distressed condition; and
aswell respectingourselvesas epoor peoplemhligedusto set them

noone d any
weshouldrefuls
thenntureefths thing.
onehnrssouiewhueor
other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind
and weather would permit; and if not. that I would carry themto Martinico in the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and as the winds had eon-
tinned in the points between H.133. and 8.19. a long time, we missed several opportunities of
sending them to France; for we met several ships bound to Euro , whereof two were French,
from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long beating up against the wind, that they durst
take in no passen rs for fear of wanting revisions for the voyage, as well for themselves as
for those the she d take in; sowo were 0 ' ed to go on. It was about awcek after this,
that we made the banks of Newfoundland, w era, to shorten my story. we put all our French
people on board a hark, which they hired at seathere, to put t em on shore, and afterwards
to carry them to France, it they could get provision to victual themselves with: when, I say,
all the French went on share, I should romember,that the young priest I spoke of, hearing
we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us. and to be set on share on
the coast of Coremandel. which I readily agreed to: for I wonderfully liked the man, and had
very good reason, as will up or afterwards; also four of the seamen entered themselves in our
ship. and proved very usefu fellows.

rom hence we directed our course for the West Indies. steeringI away 8. and S. by E.
for about twenty days together. sometimes little or no wind at all, w en we met with another
subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes N. and the 19th da of March
1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course 8.1}. and by S. We soon perceived it was a urge vessel,
and that she bore up to us; but could not at first know what to make of her, till, after coming
a little nearer, we found she had lost her main- mast, foremast, and bowsprit; and resent]
she fired a gun as a signal of distress: the weather was pretty good, wind at 11.31. . a free
gale. and we soon came to speak with her.

We found her a. ship of Bristol bound home from Barbadoes, but had been blown ont_oPS
the road at Barbadoes, a few days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief mate were both gone on share; so that beside the terror of the storm,
they were but in an indilferent case for good artists to brin the ship home: theyhad been
already nine weeks at sea. and had met with another terribe storm utter the hurricane was
over, which had blown thorn quits out of their knowledge to the westward. and in which they
lost their masts as above; they told us, they ted to have seen the Bahama islands,bat
were then driven away again to the south-east y a strong gels of wind at N.N.W. the same
that blew new, and having no sails to work the ship with. but a main course, and a. kind of
square sail upon a jury fore-mast, which they had set up, they could not lie near the wind,
but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved for want of revisions,
besides the fatigues they had undefione: their breed and flesh was quite as, they not an
ounce led in the ship. and had h none for eleven da s; the onl rehei they had, was, their
water was not all spent, and the had about half a born: of flour] 1:; they had sugar enough:
sonic arcades or sweet-meats they had at first, but they were devoured; and they had seven
one s 0 ram.

There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board, who were going passen-

rs. and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before

ehurricane be ; and having no provisions of their own left. they were in a more deplorable
condition than crest; for the seamen being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves.
had no compassion, we maybe sure, for the poor passengers; and they were indeed in a condition
that their misery is very hard to describe. _ _

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me, the weather being fair.
and the wind abated, to go on board the ship: the second mate, who open this occasion eonl-
manded the ship, had been on board our ship; and he told me indeed, they had three pas-
sengers in the first cabin. that they were In a deplorable condition: "Nay," says he, "I
beheye they are d, for I have heard nothing of them for above twodays; and I was ahaid to
inquire after them," said he, " for I had nothing to relieve them wi "
We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief wecould spare; and indeed I had
so far over-ruled things with my no how. that I would have victualled them, though we had
gone away to Virginia, or any part c the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but
there was no necessity for that.

But now they were in a new danger; for th were afraid of eeti too much, even of that
little we ve them : the mate or commander nght six men with 'm in his boat: but these
poor wrote es looked like skeletons, and were so week, they could hardly sit to their ears: the
mate himself was very ill, and half-starved; for he declared he had reserved nothing from the
men, and went share and share alike with them in every bit they eat.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but setmeat before him immediately, and he had not eaten
three mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our
surgeon mixed him up something with some broth. which he said would be to him both food and

hysic; and nfler he had taken it, he whetter; inthe meantimeIfo t not the men;
ordered victnale to be given them, an the r creatures rather devo than out it; they
were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a ' d ravenous, and had no command of them-
selxvtes; and two of them eat with so much greedm' one, that they were in danger of their lives the
no morning.

The sight of these le's distress was very moving to me, and bro ht to mind what
I had atorrible respect 0 , atmy first coming on shore in my island, where hadnotthe lust
mouthful of food), or any prospect of procurin any; besides the hourly apprehensionIhad of
being made the foedof othercreatures But the while the mate was thus relating to me the
miserable condition of the ship's compen , I could not put out of my thought the story he had
told me of the three poor creatures in e seat cabin; (viz.) the mother, her son, and the
maid-servan who he had heard nothing for two or three days; and who he seemed to
confess they ad wholly ne looted, their own extremities being so great; by which I understood,
that they had redly given em no food at all; andthattherefore theymust he penshed, and be
all lyirig dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin. _ _

As therefore kept the mate, who we then called captain, on board with his men to refresh
them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that were left on board, but ordered in own boat
to on hosrdthe ship, and with m mate and twelve men to carry them asac of bread,
an fenror fivepiecesof beef tobei . Our surgeon chargedthementocausethemeatfpbe
boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room to revent the men taking it to
eat raw. or taking it out of the pot before it was well boiled. an then to give every man but
a verv little at a. time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have
killed themselves with that v3 food that was given them on purpose to save their hves. . _

At the some time, I orde the mate to into the great cabin, and see what condition
the poor passengers were in, and if they were 'vs,to comfort them and give them what refresh-
mentwas proper; and thesu eon gavohima largedpitoher withsome of thepreparedbroth
ahich hegr'xln given the mate t was on board, on which he did not question would restore

em .

Iwal'ranot shtisfiedwith this; hutasIsaid above,ha '_ agreat mindOtoseetho seeneoi
mine which I knew the ship itself would present are w: , m a more lively manner than
Ice d have imm Itoohthecaptahoftheshimaswe now called hummth me, find
went myself s. ' in their boat .

Ifoundthepoermenonhoudalmostinntumnltto thenctnalsoutofthsboilsr
More itwasread ;butm matsobsorvedhisordormnd ptaioodgnudstthocook-
room door; and eman eplaeedthere, after all endows to have
patienes,k tthemoff force. Eowever,hees .some t _tobedlppodm
the pot, an sofleaed wi the liquor of the meat, which the callprewrs, and gave than
everyone one, to eta their stomachs, and toldthem rtwas or theirownssf , that he
wasebli togive mhutalittleatatims. Butrtwudlmvaimaud Inot
eomeon ,andtheirowneommandarandofieersmthmmflwfllmwomm
somethreats also of givingthemmmomlbelievathoy "Myavommhfiomk-mm
by force,and tore themeat out ed the min-words mindset! of vsrysmall foreetos
hungry belly. However. we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the
uni: tune. Iand the next time gave them more, and at last filled their bellies, and the men did
we onoug I.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another nature. and far beyond
the rest; for as. first. the ship'n company had so little for themselves. it was but too true that
they had at first kept them very low. and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
sevenldaivx. it might be said. they had really had no food at all, and for several days before
very M. e.

The poor mother. who. as the men reported. was a woman of good sense, and ]good breeding.
had spared all shecouhlget so aflectionatoly for her son, that at last she entire y sunk under
it; and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back up
against the sides. between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk in between
her shoulders, like a corpse. though not quite dead. hf mate said all he could to revive and
encourage her. and with a spoon put some broth into ier mouth. She opened her lips, and
lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and made signs to
him. iutimnting that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have said
the should take care of him.

] owever. the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight. endeavoured to get some
of the broth into her mouth. and, as he said. got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question
whetherlie could be sure of it or not. flat it was toolato, and she died thosame ui ht.

The youth. who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate mother's li e, was not so
far gone; yet he lay in u eabiu-bul. as one stretched out. with hardly any life left in him. He
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth. having eaten up the rest of it; however. being
youn . and having more strength than his mother. the mate got something down his throat.
and I) began sensibly to revive. though. In giving him some time after but two or three
spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, an bron ht it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid. She lay along upon the deck hard by her mistress.
and just like one that had fallen down with an apoploxy. and stru led for life. Her limbs
were dismrtcd, one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a c 'r. and she griped it so
hard that we could not easily make her let go; her other arm lay over her head, and her feet
lay both together. set fust against the frame of the cabin-table; In short, she lay just like one in
the last ugouies of death. and yet she was alive too.

The war creature was not onl starred with hunger. and terrified with the thou hts of
death, at, us the men told us a terwards. was brokenhearted for her mistress, who a e saw
dyin two or three days before. and who she loved most tenderly.

\ o lmew not what to do with this dpoor girl; for when our surgeon, who was a man of very
great knowledge and experience, on with great application recovered her as to life. he had her
u n his hand as to her senses, for she was little sss than distracted for aconsidorablo time

tar; as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums. must be desired to consider that visits at see. are
not like a journey into the country. where sometimes pco ls stay awcel: oratortnight at a place.
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew. at. not to he by for them; and though
the were williu v to steer the same course with us for some days. yet we could carry no soil
to cop pace wit: a ship that had no masts: however. as their captain begged of us to help
him to set up a main top-mast. and a kind of a top-mastto his jury fore-mast. we did. as it
were. lie by him for three or four days; and then having given him five barrels of beef, a barrel
of pork. two hogsheads of biscuit. and a proportion of peas. flour, and what other things we
con d spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum. and some pieces of eight of them
for satisfaction, we left them. taking on board with us, at their own earnest request, the priest,
the oath. aml the maid. and all their goods.

'1' 0 your: lad was about seventeen 'years of age; apntt .well-brcd. modest. and sensible
youth. great y dejected with the loss o his mother, and. ssi seems. had lost his father but I.
few months before at Barbsdocs. Ho begged of the surgeon to specioto me. to take him out of
the ship, for he said theerusl follows had murdered his mother; and, indeed. so they had-that.
is to say, passively--for they mi ht have spared a mall sustenance to the poor. hel less
widow, that might have preserved her life, though it had been buttmst to keep her 've.
But hu knows no friend, no 'rolation, no justice, no right; and, refore, Is remorseless,
and caps le of no compassion.

The surgeon told hrm how far we were going, and how it would carry him awe from all
his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad circumstances, almost as those we foun him in;
that is to say. starving m the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but
delivered from the terrible crew he was among; that the captain (by which he meant me,
for he could know uothin of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; and as for the mai , he was sure, if she came to herself, she would he veil? thankful
for it, let us carry them where we would. The surgeon represented the case so a ectionately
to me, that I yielded. and we took them both on board, with all their goods, except eleven
:3??th of sugar, which could not be removed, or come at; and as the youth had a bill of

'ng for them, I made his commander sign a writing. obl' 'ug him to o. as soon as he
came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there. to whom e oath sai he was related,
andto deliveraletter which I wrote tohim, and all the goods he h belonging to the deceased
widow, which I suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the s ' came to Bristol,
but was. as is most probable, lost at sea, being in so disabled a condition. an so far from any

land, that I am of o inion, the first storm she met with afierwards, she might founder in .

the see, for she was lea y, and haddarnage in her hold when we met with her.

I was now in the latitude of 19 d . 32 min. and had hitherto hada tolerable vo as to
weather, though at first the winds hfi been contrary. I shall trouble nobody wi e little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, rite. on the rest of our voyage; but, shortening my sto
for the sake of what is to follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habitation, the islan ,
on the 10th of April. 1895. It was with no small difliculty that I found the place; for as I
came to it, and went from it before, on the south and east side of the island, as co ' from
the Brazils, so now comi in between the main and the island, and having no chart r the
coast, nor any landmark, I 'd not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it or no.

We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands in the mouth of the at
river Oroonoque, but none for my purpou ; only this I learned hi my coasting the shore, I
was under one great mistake before, viz. that the continent w ich I thought I saw from the
island I lived in, was really no continent, but a lo island, or rather a ridge of islands reaching
from one to the other side of the extended mouth 0 that t river; and that the savages who
came to my island were not properly those which we c Caribbees. but islanders, and other
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to our side than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some I found were inhabited. and
some were not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and thought they had hved there;
but speaking with them, found they had a sloop y in a small creek hardbrly, and theicame
hither to make salt, and cateh some pearl-mussels,rf they could, but they onged to e Isle.
do Trinidad, which lay further north, in the latitude of ten and eleven degrees. . .

But at last coastin from one island to another, sometimes with the ship, sometimes with the
Frenchman's shallo fwhich we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her mth thear
very good will), at lpength I came fair on the south side of my island. and I resent] knewthe
very countenance of the lace; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, bro do W: the httle
creek where was my old abitation.

As soon as I saw the less I called for Friday, and asked him if he knew where hours? He
looked about a little, an presently cla ping his hands cried, " 0 yes, 0 there. 0 yes, 0 there I"
pointin to our old habitation, and! adanoing and capering hke a mad fellow; and Ihad
much 0 to keep him fromjnmping into the sea, to swim on s oreto the place.

" Well. Friday," says I, " do on think we shall find anybody here, or no P and what do you
think, shall we see your tetherI " The follow stood route as a stock a good while; but when I
named his father, the affectionate creature looked dejected; and I could see the tears run
down his face very p entifully. " What is the matter, Friday," says I P " are you_tronblsd
because you may see your tether?" " No, no," says he, shahng his head. " no see hrm more,

0

gig,
no ever more see again." "Wh so," said I, "Friday? how do on know that?" "0 no, 0 no,"
says h'rixlury. " he Ion agodie; ong ngo.ho much old man." " ell. well," so 31. " Pride. .you
don't know; but she I we see any one else then P" The follow. it seems. had tier eyes t an I.
and he mints just to the hill above my old house; and though we lay half a league off. he cries
out, " Vile see! we see! cs, we see much man there. and there, and there." I looked. but I could
see nobody. no, not wit u a perspective glass; which was, I suppose. because I could not hit the
plum; for the fellow was ri ht, as I found upon inquiry the next day. and them were five or six
men ulhsgnthor stood to loo ' at the ship, not knowing what to think of us.

As soon ns l'friduy had told run he saw people. I caused the English ancient to be 9 road, and
fired three guns.to give them notice we were friends; and about half a quarter of an Iour after,
we )crcoivcd a smoke rise from the side of the creek; so I immediately onlored a boat out, taking
h'rh uy with me; and. hanging out a white flag. or ll of trucc.l went directly on shore, taking
with me the young friur I mentioned. to whom I told the whole story of my livin there.
and the manner of it. and every particular. both of myself, and those I left there; and w 0 was
on that -~ unt extmnelydesmum to go with me We had besides about sixteen men very well
armed. if we had found any new guest there which we did not know of : but we had no need of
woe )OIIN.

All we want on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water.wo rowed directly into the creek:
and the first mun l lixu my eye upon was the Spaniard. whose life I had saved. and who I
know by his fum- lmrfectl well ; as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. Iorderod nobody
In go on shore at first rut myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat: for tho
uIIi-ctionnle rnmturu hud spied his father at a distance. a good wa of! of the Slpaniards, where
indeed I saw nothing of him ; and if they had not let him go on s ore. he won (1 have jumped
into the sen. lie was no sooner on shore. but he flew away to his father like an arrow out of
a how. It would have nnnlo any man have shed tears, in spite of tho fir-most resolution. to have
seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy. when he came to his father; how he embraced
him, kissed him. stroked his face. took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay
down by him: then stood and looked at him as any one would look at a strange picture, for a
quarter of an hour Mgr-then then lie down upon the and. and stroke his legs and kiss them.
and then get up again. and stare at him; one would ave thought the fellow bowitched; but it
would have made a dog Ian h to see how the next day his passion ran out another way : in the
morning he walked alon r t io shore, to-and-agaia. with his father, several hours. always Iondin
him by the hand. as if he had been a lady; and every now-and-then he would come in f
runnething or other for him from the lmat, either a lure of sugar or a dram, a biscuit cake, or
something or other that was good. In the afternoon ris frolics ran another wa ; for then he
would set the old man down upon the ground. and dance about him, and me e a thousand
antic postures and gestures; and all the while he did this. he would be talking to him, and
telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what had haggancd to him abroad, to

,divort him. ln short. if the same filial affection was to be found in C 'stians to their parents.
in our mm of the world. one would be tempted to say. there would hardly have been any need
of tho 'il'th Commandment.

llnt this is a digression: I return to my landing. It would be endless to take notice of all
the ceremonies and eir'ilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, who,
as I said. I knew very well. was he whose life I had saved: he came towards the boat, attended
by one more. carrying a. flag of trace also; and he did not only not know me at first. but hehad
no thoughts. no notion. of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him. " Se" ior." said I
in Portuguese. " do 'ou not know me P" atwhich he spoke not a word; but giving '1; musket to
the man that was With him. threw his arms abroad. and saying something in Spanish that I did
not wrfu-tly hear. comes forward and embraced are, telling me he was inexcusable not to know
that face again that he had once seen, as of an angel from heaven sent to save his life: he said
abundance of very handsome things. as a well-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then
beckoning to the person that attended him. bade him go and call out his comrades. He then
asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me possession of my own
house again, and where I should see there had been but mean improvements. So I walked
alon with him; but, alas ! I could no more find the place again than if I had never been there;
for t oy had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a hue, so thick audclose to one
another, in ten years' time the were grown so bi . that, in s art, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings, and b 'nd ways. as they t ourselves onlfiwho made them could find.

I asked them, what put them upon all these fortifications P e told me I would say there
was need enough of it, when the had given me an account how they had passed thsrr time
since their arrivin in the islan , eepemally after they had the misfortune to find that I was
gone. He told me e could not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard
that 1 was gone away in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had offentimees
etro persuasion, that one time or other he should see me again; but u ' that ever
befall in his life, he said, was so surprising and addicting to him at first, as the ' point-
ment ho was under when he came huh to the island, and found I was not there.

had a. long storyto tell me; the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small. " And,' says he. " bad they been strong enough,
we had been all long ago in purgatory" and with that hecrossed ' onthe breast. " But.
sir," says he, " I hope you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced by necewty,
we were obliged for our own preservation, to disarm them and make them our su jecte, who
would not be content with being moderately our masters, but would be our murderers." I
answered. I was heartil sir-aid o it when I left them there: and nothing] troubled me at my
parting from the island, but that they were not come ler, that I mig t have put them in
possession of everything first, and left the other in a state of subjection, as they deserved; but
if they had reduced them to it, I was glad. and should be very far from finding any fault
with it, for I knew they were a parcel o refractory ungoverued Villains, and were fit for any
manner of mischief.

While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back. and with him eleven men
more. In the dresathe were in, it was in ible to gum what nation they were of; but he
madeallcloar bothto em andto me. ' he turned to meand'foinung to them, said,
" These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you ;" an then, turning to them,
and. pointing to me, he let them know who I was. Upon which they all came up one by one.
not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and Ithe like, but really as if they had
been ambassadors er noblemen, and I a monarch, or a t conqueror. Their behaviour was
to the last degree ohliging and courteous, and yet mix with a manly majestic vity, which
very well become them SS and in short, they had so much more manners than thstI scarce
knew how to receive therr civilities, much less how to return them in kind. -

The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island, after my gait?" away, _is so very
remarkable, and has so many incidents, which the former part of my tion will help to
understand, and which will, in most of the particulars. refer to that account I have already
given, that I cannot but commit them with great delight to the reading of those that come

:- me.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first person, which will ut me
to the expense of ten thoust " said 's," and " said he's." and he " told me's," and " told
him'e." and the like; butI shallcollectthefoetehistoricallyms near as _I cangetherthemout
of my memory, from what they related to me, and from what I met with In my conversing
with them. and with the plane. .

In orderto do this succinctly, and as infelligibly as I can, I must hack to the circumstance
in which I left the island, and which the persons were, of whom am to spealr. And first,
itisneceesa to npestthatI hadsentaway Fride 'sfatherendtheSpamard, thetwo
whoselivesI odresouedh-om thesavegee; Isa. ,Ihedsentthem awaym a large canoe to
the main, as I then thought it, to fetch overthe S ' 's cohlzsanrons2 whom he hadleft
behmdhiminorderfosavethemfromthelikecelamrtythathe becomudmorderto
suocour- them for the present, and that, if posdble, we might together find some way for our
deliverance afterward.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or- the least room'to hope for, my
own deliverance. any more than I had twenty care before; much less had I any foreknow-
ledge of what afterward happgned, I mean ofan nglish ship comiltlg on shore there to {eteh
me off; and it could not but a very great surprise to them when ey came back, not only to
find that I was one. but to find three strangers lelt on the spot, possessed of all that I ad.
left behind me, w ieh would otherwise have been their own.

Tho first thing, however. which I inrbuired into (that I might begin where I left 05), was of
their own part: and I desired he woul ivo me a particular account of his voyage back to his
countrymen with the boat, when I sent in to fetch them over. He told me there was little

variety in that part; for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, the having very
calm weather, and a smooth sea: for his countrymen, it could not be doab , he said, but
that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems ho was the principal man among them, the captain
of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in havin been dead some time): they were, he said.
the more surprised to see him. because they knew at he was fallen into the hands of savages,
who, the were satisfied, would devour him as they did all the rest of their prisoners: that w en
he told t Iem the story of the deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for oarryi

them away. it was like a dream to them; and their astonishment, the said, was something like
that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and to d them the story of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court: but wheuho showed them the arms. the powder, the ball, and
the provisions that he brought them for their 'ournoy, or voyage, thgflwere restored to them-
selves, tool: a just share of the joy of their elivcrance, and im ' tely prepared to come
awa with him.

'1' eir find. business was to get canoes; and in this they were obliged notto sticlr so much
upon the honest part of it. but to trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
umoes or periaguus, on pretence of gomg out a-fishing, or for pleasure.

In those they came away the next morning; it seems they wanted no time to get themselves
ready, for the had no lurggage. neither clothes, or provisions, or any thi in the world, but
what they luu on them, and a few roots to out, of which the used to malro air bread.

The were in all three weeks absent, and in that time, no uckily for them. I had the Measion
ofl'ere: for my escape, as I mentioned in my other rt, and to get at? from the island: leaving
three of the most nupudent. hardened, ungovern , disagreeable villains behind me, that any
man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards' great grief and disappointment, you may
be sure.

The only just thing the rogues did. was, that when the Spaniards came on shore, they gave
my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other relief, as I had ordered them to do;

-nlso they gave them the long paper of directions, which I had left with them, containing the
particular methods which I took for managing every partof my life there; the way how I baked
my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made In pots,
and. in a word. eve thing I did: all this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two
of whom uuderstam English well enough; nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards
with everything else, for they agreed ve well for some time: they gave them an equal
admission into the house, or cave, and they a to live vex}: sociably; and the head Spaniard.
who lmd seen pretty much of my method, and Friday's ther together, managed all their
ull'uirs; for. as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot
parrots, pad lcateh tortoises, and when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their
sup rs or t rem.

'l' Ie Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the other but have let them alone ;
which, however. they could not find in their hearts to do long; but. like the dog in the man r,
they would not eat themselves. and would not let others eat neither; the did'erences. nev e.
less, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating: but at last it broke out
into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason. without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common sense; and thou h
it is true, the hrst relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call e
accusers. yet when I came to examine the fellows. they could not deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particular of this part, I must supply a defect in my former rela-
lion; and this was, that I forgot to set down among the rest that, just as we were weighing the
anchor. to set sail. there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was afraid once
would have turned to a. second mutiny; nor was it up till the as 'n, rousing n his
courage. and taking us all to his assistance. parted t em by force, an making two 0 the
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as they had been active in the
former disorders. and let fall some ugly dangerous words the second time. he threatened to
gzrryhthem in irons to Englan , and have them hanged there for mutiny and running away with

9 I I .

This.pit seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, frightened some other men in the
ship; and some of them had put it into the heads of the rest, that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, ti [they should come to some English port; and that then they
should be all put into gaol, and tried for their liv .

The mute got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it; upon which it was desired, that
I, who still fora great man among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men. an tell them, that they might be assured, if the behaved well the rest of the voyage.
all they had done for the time past should be pardo So I went and afler passing my
honour a word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so, when I caused the two men who
were in irons, to be released an orgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night, the wind also falling calm;
next morning we found that our two men who had been laid in irons, had stole each of
them a musket, and some other wea as; what powder or shot they had, we know not; and
had taken the ship's pinuaco, whio was not yet baled up, and ran away with hertc their
companions in re uery ou the shore.

As soon as we ouud this. I ordered the long-boat on shore. with twelve men and the mate.
and away they went to seek the rogues; but they could neither find them, nor any of the rest;
for they all tied into the woods when they saw the host coming on shore. The min was once
rmlved, in justice to their roguery. to have destroyed their plantations, burnt all their household-
stufi and furniture. and led. them to shift without it; but having no order, he let it all alone.
if? everything as they found it, and bringing the pinnsce away, came on board without

em.

These two men made their number live; but the other three villains were so much wickeder
than thue, that after they had been two or three days together, they turned their two new-
comers out of doors to s ift for themselves, and won d have nothing to do with them; nor
could they for a good while be persuaded to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they
were not yet come.

' When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to forward; the Spaniards

would have persuaded the three English brutes to have taken in eir two countrimeu again,

that, as the said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it; so t e two poor

fellows liv by themselves; and finding nothing but industry and application would make

them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shoreof the island, buts. little

30:: to 1??! west, to be out of the danger of the savages, who always landed on the east para;
818 l e '

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up their magazines
and stores an; and the S niards having given them some corn for seed. and especially some of
the which I had! them, they dug and planted. and enclosed afiel- the pattern I had
set or them all, and began to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn was on _the ground,
and though it was but a little bit of land which they had dug in at first, baring had but
a little tune. it was enough to relieve them, and find them wi bread or other eatsbles;

and one of e fellows, being the cook's mate of the ship,was very read 'at making soup, I ~
puddings, and such other preparations. as the rice and the milk, and such ttle flesh as they .
got, furnished him to do. 1'

  
 

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three unnatural rogues, their i
own countrymen too. in mere humour, and to insult them. came and bullied them, and told .
them the islandwee theirs; that the governor,meaningme,hadgiveuthempoesesmenol it.

I. .

   

no.1.) a." a -.7
and nobody else had any right to it; and, damn them, they should build no houses upon their
ground, unless they would pay them rent for them.

The two men thought the ad josted at first; asked them to come and sit down, and see
what fine houses they were but they had built, and tell them what rent the demanded; and
one of them merrily told them, if they were ground-lundlords,he hoped i they built tene-
ments upon the land, and made improvements, they would, according to the custom of all
landlords, grant them along lease; and bid them go fetch a. scrivener to draw the writings.
One of the three, damning and raging. told them, they should see they were not in djest; and
going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men had made a fire to ress their
\'ietuahv, he takes a fire-brand and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairl set it on
fire; and it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes, if one of the two h not run
to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without some
difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him away, that he returned
upon him with a pole he had in his hand; and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly,
and run into the hut. ho had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they
were both in, run in aflerhim, and immediater they came both out with their mushcts; and the
man that was first struck at with the le, knocked the fellow down, that had begun the
quarrel, with the stock of his musket, an that before the other two could come to help him;
and than seeing the rest come at them, they stood together, and presenting the other ends of
their pieces tothem, bade them stand off.

Thoothor had fire-arms with them too: but one of the two honest men, bolderthan his comrade,
and made dos rate by his danger, told them, if they offered to move hand or foot. they were dead
men; and badly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not indeed lay down
their arms; huh seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they consented to
take their wounded man with them, and be gone; and indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded
sufiicieutly with the blow; however, they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage,
that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and have one immo-
dintely to the Spaniards. and given them an account how the rogues had tree them; for
the thirse villains studied nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that

e I so.

at notto crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of their rogueries, such as
treading down their corn. shooting three young kids, and a she-goat which the poor men had got
to bre up tame for their store; and, in a. word, plaguing them night and day in this manner.
it forced the two men to such a. des ratiOn, that they resolved to fight them all three the first
time they had a fair opportunity. a order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it, that was my old dwelling, where the three rogues and tho Sfiauiards all lived together
at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and the S iards s ould stand I: to see fair
lay. So they 1: up in the morning before day, an came to the place. andyealled the
.flllnglishmen by t ieir names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that they wanted to speak with
em.

It happened that the day before two of the Spaniards, havin been in the woods, had seen
one of V. I0 two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I call the onest men; and he had made
a and complaint to the Spaniards. of the barbarous usage they had met with from their three
countrymen, and how they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn, that they had
laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the mileh-goat, and their three kids, which was all
they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards,
did not assist them again, they should he starved. When the Spaniards came home at nig t,
and they were all at su per, he took the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, thong in
very. gentle and manner y terms, and asked them, how they could he so cruel, they hein harm-
less inod'ensive fellows, and that they were onl utting themselves in a way to engsist by
that]: Idlers-hand that it had cost them a great of pains to bring things to such perfection
as oy

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, Whathnd they to do there? That they came
on shore without leave, and that they should not plant or build upon the island; it was none
of their ground. "Why," seymthe S )aniurd, very calmly, "Seignior Inglese. they must not
starve." The Englishman replied, ' 'e a true rou h-hewn tarpuulin, they might starve and
be damned, they should not plant or build. " But w t must they do then, Seignior?" says the
Spaniard. Another of the hrntos returned, " Do! d--n them, they should be servants, and
work for then" "But how can on expect that of them 9" says the Spaniard. " they arenot
bought with your money; you vs no right to make them servants." The Englishman
answered, the island was theirs. the governor had given it to them, and no man had anything to
do there but themselves; and with that swore by his Maker, that they would go and burn all
their new huts; they should build none upon their land.

" Why, Se~ 'or,' says the Spaniard, " by the sumo rule, we must be your tenants too."
" ," mas o bold dog, "and so you shall, too, before we have done with you," mixing two
or three ---d dT-n-mo's in the proper intervals of his speech. The S niard only smiled
at that, and made him no answer. However, this little discourse had hostesathsm; and, start-
ing a , one says to the other, I think it was he the called Will Atkins, "Come, Jack, let us
go on have the other brush with them; we will demolish their castle, I will warrant you; they
shall plant no colony in our dominions."

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, agistol, and a sword, and
muttered some insolent things among themselves, of what they would etc the Spaniards, too,
when opportunity ofi'ered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so rfectl understand them
as, toEknoHZhall the particulars; only that, in general, they threaten them for taking the

o a men's part. V

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that ovenin , the S aniards said they
did not know; but it seems the wondered about the country part 0 the nig t; and then] 'ug
down in the place which I used, to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept the ves.
The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the two r men
when they were asleep; and as they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to air huts
while they were in them, and either burn them in them, or murder them as they came out: and
as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been kept waking.

However, as the two men had also a design upon t em, as I have said, though a much fairer
one than that of b ' and murdering, it hep nod, and very luckily for them all, that they
were up and gone om before the bloody-min ed rogues came to their hats.

When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins, who it seems was the forwardest
man, called out to his comrades, " Ha! Jock, here's the nest; but d--n them, the birds are
down :" they mused awhile to think what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested resoutly, that the Spaniards had given them notice of it; and with that
they shook hands, and swore to one another, that the would be rovenged of the Spaniards.
As soon as they had made this blood bargain, they 1 to work with mm men's habitation;
th did not set fire indeed to anything,'but the ulled down both ' little houses, and

p ed them so limb from limb that they left not 0 east stick standing, or scares any sign on '

the ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected household-stall" in pieces, and
threw "filling about in such a manner, that the poor men afterwards found some of their
this a oif of their habitation,

Wfii'sn they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees the poor men had_ planted;
pulled up an enclosure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn, and, m award,
sacked and plundered ev ' g as completely as a. herd of Tartars would have done.

The two men were at ' juncture gone toiind them out, andhad resolved to fight them
wherever 23 had been. th b they were but two to three: so that, had they met, there

W

certainly d have been bl ed among them; for they were silvery stout resolute fellows,
togive them their due.
at Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they themselves could do to

meet: for as they had dogged one another, when the three were gone thither, the .two were
here; andefierwards,when the two went back to find them,tho three were comets theold
habitation again; we shall see their (littering oonguct presently.

1'- .

t

"'31?!
When the three came back, like furious creatures. flushed with the rage which the work they

had been about put them into, they mime up to the Spaniards, and told them what they had
done, by Wu of wolf and bravado: and one of them stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as
if they had on a couplo of boys at play. takes hold of his but. as it was upon his head. and
givin it a twirl about, flex-ring in his face, an a he to him. "And you, Soiguior Jack 8 'nrd,
slutll'lmvu the name some if you do not mend your manners." he Spaniard, who, though a
quiet. civil man, was as bravo as a man could desire to be, and withal a strong, well-made man,
looked steialily at him fora good while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept gravely
u l to him. and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an or is felled with a pole-axe,
u w] , one of the rogues. insolvnt as the first, fired his riotol at the Spaniard immediately.
He in I sod his body. indeed. for the bullets went thmu h iis hair; but one of them touched
hu tip or his ear. and he bled pretty much. The bl made the S niard believe he was
more hurt tlmn he really was, and that put him into some heat, for fore he meted all in a
perfect calm; but now. mmnlving to go through with his work, he she and took the fellow's
musket whom he had klmcked down. and was just going to shoot a man who had fired at
him. when the rest or the b' minnlu. being in tho cave, came out. and, calling to him not to
slimt, thu slept in. necurr-d t In other two. and took their arms from them.
. When t my were thus disarmed. and found they had made all the Spaniards their enemies
as well as their own countrymen. tlmy begun to cool, and, giving the S aniards better words,
would have had their arms again; but tie Spaniards. considering the end that was between
them and the otlmr two Englisluncn. and that it would be the best method they could take to
keep them from killing one another, told them they would do them no harm, and if they
would livo [mun-ably they would be very willing to assist and associate with them, as they did
before: but that thev could not think of giving them their arms again, while they ap red
so resolved to do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threaten them
all to make them their servants.

'l'he rogues were now more capable to hear reason than to act reason; but. being refused
their arms, they went raving away, and raging like madman, threatening what the would
do. though they had no firearms; but the Spaniards. dospising their threatening. to d them
they should take care how they offerisl any injury to their plantation or cattle; for. if they did
they would slnmt them. as they would do ravenous bursts. wherever they found them; and if
the ' fell into their hands alive. they should certainly be hanged. However. this was far from
cooling them; but away they went. raging and swearing like furics of hell. As soon as they
were gone. came back the two men in utssiou aud ra onou h also, though of another kind;
for. having been at their plantation. an finding it I demo Ished and destroyed, as above, it
will easily be <<upllmsod they had provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, tho Spanian s were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that
three men than bully nineteen. and receive no punishment at all.

The Spnldurds indeed denpisul them. and, especially having thus disarmed them, made light
of all their threatenings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them,
wlmt pains mover it cost to find them out. ,

lint the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them that. as they had disarmed them, they
could not consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them;
" but." said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, " we will endeavour to make them do
you justice. if you will leave it to us. for, as there is no doubt but they will come to us again
when their [session is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance, we promise you
to make no peace with them without having a full satisfaction for you, and u n this condition
we hope you will promise to use no violence with them other than in your d once."

The two Englishmen yielded to this re awkwardly. and with great reluctance; but the
S \aniurds imtesttsl they did it only to keep em from b oodshed, and to make all easy stlsst;
" i'ur." sai they, " we are not so many of us. Here is room enough for us all, and it is a
grmt pity we should not be all good friends." At length they did consent. and waited for the
statue ogdtho thing, living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation was

eetroy
In about _iive days' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering, and almost starved with
hangar, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while, some bac to the grove. and finding
in paniard, who, as I have said, was t e governor, and two more with him, walking by the
si e of the creek, they came up in a very submissive. humble manner, and begged to be
received again into the family. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had
acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that
they could not come to any conclusion without consulting the two En lishmen and the rest;
but, however, they would 0 to them and discourse about it, and they a ould know in ha]! an
hour. It may be gu that they were veryhard put to it; for it seems, as they wereto
wait this ha ~hour for an answer, they begged he would send them out some bread in the
meantime, which he did. and sent them at the same time a large piece of goat's flesh and
a boiled rrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were has enough.

After an hour's consultation, the were called in, and s ong do to had among them,
their two countrymen 'ng them wi the ruin of all their labour. and a deei to murder
them; all which they own before, and therefore could not den now. Upon e whole, the
Spaniard acted the moderator between them; and, as they had ob 'ged the two Englishmen not
to hurt the three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now ob ' the three to go and
build their fellows two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of rger dimensions than
they were before; to fence their around again, where they had pulled up the fences, plant trees
in the room of those pulled up, '3 up the land again for planting corn where they had spoiled
it;and,inaword,torestoreev 'ginthesamestateutheyfoudihasnearasthey
could; for entirely it could not be, season for corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges.
not being possible to be recovered. .

Well, they submitted to all this; and, as they had plenty of provisions given them all the
while, they a- very orderly, and the whole societ began to live pleasantly and agreeably

thsr, o y that these three fellows could never persuaded to work; I mean for them.
so ves. except now and then a little, just as they pleased. However, the Spaniards told them
plainly that. if they would but live sociably and friendlfy ether, and study in the whole the
good of the plantation, they would be content to work or t sin, and let them walk about and
be as idle as they pleased; and thus. having lived pretty well together for a month or two,
thebipamards' gave them their arms again,' and gave them liberty to go abroad with them
M ore.

It was not above a week after the had these arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful
creatures began to be as insolent an troublesome as before; but, however, an accident hap-
pened presently upon this which endangered the safety of them all. They were obliged to lay

y all private resentments, and look to the preservation of their lives.
It ha pened one night, that the Spaniard vernor. as I call him. that is to say, the
Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now t a captain, or leader, or governor of the rest,
found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep :_ he was perfectly
well in body, as he told me the story, onlgnfound his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon
man fighting and killin of one another, t was broad awake, and could not by any means get
any sleep; in short, hefiay a great while; but growing more and more uneasy, be resolved to
rise: as they lay, being so many of them, upon goat-skins, laid thick u n such couches and
pads as they made for themselves, not in hammocks and ship beds, as did, who was but one.
so they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and,
paths s, put on a coat. such as it was, and their pumps, and they were yforgoing anyway
t sir thoughts guided them. . _

Being thus gotten up. he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothin ; and
besides, the trees whioh I had planted. as in my former account is described, and whi were
now gmwntalhintmmptodhismghhsothathecouldonlflook up,andleethntitwasaelear
star-light ' ht; and, hearing no noise, he returned and 'd him down again; but itwas all

one. be con] not sleep, nor could he compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts
weietothelastdegreenneasywndyethehnewnotforwhat. _ .
Having made some noise with rising 'and walking about, going out and coming in, anethero!
them wall-ed, am]. calling. asls-Il who it was that was a P The governor told him how-itlmd
been with him. " Say you so." says the other S )ania ; " such things are not to he shghtod,
I assure you; there is certainly some mischie working." says he. "near us:" and New
he asked him. " Where are the Englishmen?" "They'are all in their hats," says e," e
enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept session of the main apartment. and had made
a. place. where the three Englishmen. since eir last mutiny. always quartered by themselves,
and could not come at the rest. " Well." says the Spaniard, " there Is something in it, I am
persuaded from my mvn experience: I am satisfied our spirits embodied have a converse with.
and receive intelligence from. the spirits uaomhodiod. and inhabiting the invisible world; and
this friendly notice is gin-n [or our advantage, if we know howl>> malre use of it. Come,"
says he. "let us Kn out and leak abroad; and it we find nothing at all in itto justify our
trouble. I will tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of tho justice of my
promeing it." _

la a wenl. they went out to go up to the top of the hill, where I used to go; but they. being
strong. and in good <<annpaay. nut alone, as l. was. used none of my cautious to go up by the
ladder, and then pulling it up after them, to go up a second awe to the top. but were going
round thmngh t In grove unconcerned and newer . when they were surprised with seeing a
light as of lire. a very little way oil' from them.and curing the voices of men, not of one or two,
but of a great number.

In all the discoveries l haul made of the savages landin on the island,itwas my constant
care to prevent them making the least discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place;
and when by any occasion they came to lrnow it, they felt it so efl'eetually. that the that git
away were scarce able to give any awcouut of it. for we disappeach as soon as possib 0. nor '11
over any that had seen me cheap" to tell any one else. except it was the three savages in our
last encounter. who jumped into the bout. of whom I mentioned that I was afraxd they should
go home. and bring "lure help.

Whether it was the eeampmnee at" the escape of those men. that so great a number came
now together; or whether they came ignemntly, and by accident. on their usual bloody errand.
they could not it seems Illlllt'l'fihtllll; but whatever it was, it had been their business, either to
have concealed themselves. and not have seen them at all; much less to have lot the savages
have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen u n them so
elfectnully, as that not a man of them should have escaped. which could only rare been by
getting in between them and their lxmts; but this presence of mind was wanting to them
which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great wlnlo.

We need not doubt but that the governor. and the man with him, surprised with this sight,
run back immediately. and raised their fellows. giving them an account of the imminent danger -
they were all in; and they again as readily took the alarm. but it was impossible to persuade
theml to stay close within where they were, but that they must run all out to see how things
stem .

While it was dur's indeed, they were well enough. and they had opportunity enough. for
somo hours. to view them by the light of three fires they had made at some distance from one
another; what they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves the lruew not; for.
first, the enemy were too many; and. secondly. they did not keep together. but were divided
into several parties. and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and as they found that the
fellows ran stragglin all over the shore. they made no doubt, but, first or last. some of them
would cllnp in upon t leir habitation. or upon some other'plaee, where they would see the token
of inhabitants; and they were in great perplexity also or fear of their deck of goats, which
would have been little less than starving t em, If they should have been destro ed; so the
first thing they resolved upon was to (lespatch three men away before it was lig t. viz. two
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away to the great valley where the
core was. and. it need were. to drive them into the very cave itself.

Couhl they have seen the savages alto ther in one body. and at any distance from their
canoes. they resolved, it they had been a undmd or them. to have attacked them : but that
could not be obtained, for they were some of them two miles od' from the other, and, as it
up cred afterwards, were of two difierent nations.

for having mused a great while on the course the should take, and beaten their brains
in considering their recent circumstances, they resolv at last, while it was still dark, to send
the old savage (Fri y's father) out as a y. to learn, if possible, something concerning them,
what they came for, and what they inten ed to do; the old man readily undertook at. and,
stripping himself quite naked, as most of the so were, away he went: other he had been
gone an hour or two, he brin word, that he h been among them undiscovered, that he
ound they were two parties, an of two severa'l nations who had war with one another, and had
had a great battle in their own country, and that both sides, havin had several risoners taken
in the fight, they were by mere chance landed all in the same is ad for the evonring their
prisoners, and making merry; but their coming, so by chance to the same place. had sporlcd
all their mirth; thatthey were in a great rage at one another; and thatt sy were so near,
that he believed the would fight again as soon as daylight began to ap er; but he didnot
min that they any notion of anybody's being on the island but emselves. He had

ly made an end of' telling his story, when they could 've, by the unusualnorsc they
made, that the two little armies were engaged in a b oody fig t. _

Friday's lather used all the arguments he could to persuade our people to he close, and not
be seen; he told them their safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie
still, and the savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest would go_away--
and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to ravail, tram" upon the Enghshmen;
their curiosity was so importunato upon their pru ntials, at they must run out and see
the battle; however, they used some caution too, viz., the did not go openly just by therr own
dwelling. but went further into the woods, and placed t emselves to advantage. where they
might securely see them manage the fight, and. as they thought, not to be seen by them; but
rt seems the savages did see them, as we shall find hereafter.

The battle was ve fierce, and if I might believe the Englishmen. one of them saidhe could
perceive that some 0 them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits. and of great polrc
rnguiding the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours, before they could guess w '
party would be beaten; but then that party which was nearest our people's habitahon began to
appear weakest. and after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this put our men
tagain into a great consternation, lest any of those that fled. should run into the grove before

sir dwelling, for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that b conse-
quence the parsners should do the like in search for them. Upon this th remlved t they
would stan armed within the wall, and whoever came into the grove, ey should sally out
over the wall and kill them; so that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of rt.
Tax ordered also that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the p
s of the musket, but not by shooting them, for fear of' raising an alarm by the norse.

As they expcctcd, it fell out; threeo thereutsd arm fled for life, and crossing the creek,
ran directly into the place, not in the least knowin w 'thcr they went, but rennin .as into
athicl: wood for shelter; the scout they kept to Ice abroad gave notice of thrs wr wrth
this addition to our men's great satisfaction. viz. that the uerors had not pursued them, or
seen which way they were gone. Upon this the S ' tgovernor, a man of humor ,
would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending rec men out by the top. of
hill, ordered them to go round and come in behind them, surprise and take them 05m
which was done; the residue of the conquered $30510 fled to their canoes, and got *0 sea; '
the victors retired, made no pursuit, or veryl 't e; but drawing themselves into a body ,\
together, lgave two great screamin shouts, w 'ch they supposed were by we of tnunrph, and. .1
so the fig t ended; and the same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, ey also marched "
to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island again he to themselves, their fright
was over. and they saw no savages in several years after. _ _ .

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den; and, vrewrng the field of
bottle, they found about two-and-thrrt dead men upon the spot; some were lulled with great
long arrows, soared which werefound sticln'ng in their bodies, but mostof them were killed

   
 
   

' ' l

. . ' o l . , . . . ,
I' ""~ \a'hMLx-Li.mflru\.)..flfiflarudmxurleJEnIMJ 'rL-_'h'.-\- ; . . "whichsrl'a:
with their great wooden nwonln. nixtecn or seventeen of which they found in the field of bottle.
and on runny bow with n grunt innuy arrows; thene uwonln were etrange great unwieldy
thin n, nud they munt bo vury ntrong men that need them. Mont of these men that were
kill with them bud their hendu munhod to iiocon. no we may nay. or. on we cell it in Eng-
li>>h.tlmir hrninn kxmoked out. and ueveml of t eir nrmn and legs broken: so that it in evident
they light with inuxprlmnihle rn to end fury. We found not one wounded mnn thnt was not
nunmdond. for either they ntny :y their enemy till they have quite killed them, or they carry
all tho wounded nmu. thnt uro not quite deed. "my with them.

This dolivemuuu tanned our 1-} gliehmen for n rent while. The sight hnd lillel them
with horror. and the ulhu-I neuuen nppeured terribi'e to the heat degree. even to them. if over
they nhould in" into the I ll of those creatures. who would not only kill them as enemies. but
kill them for food. x we kill our cattle. And they profeml to me. thnt the thuughtu of
bein entun up. like I -r or mutton. though it won uupponed it won not to be till they were
dem . hnd something in it no horrible. thnt it unnecntod their very nwmnehu. mnde them
nick when they thought of it. und lilled their mindn with nueh uuuuuul terror. that they were
not thenmelven for Home weeks after.

Thin. no I nnid. hum-d oven the three Englinh brutes I have been speaking of; end. for
It great while utter. they were very tmclnhle. uud went nbout the common business of their
whole noeiety well unnugh: plnntml. sowed. rnnpod. uud begun to be ull nnturulized to the
couutr ; but nolno time ailer thin, they tell all into such meusures which brought them into n
grout t col of trouble.

'l'hey hud token three 'll'imllfll'fl. us I lnnl observed: and these three being lusty. stout young
follow-c, the mode them nervuulx. nud tnught them to work for them; nud. ml nlaves, they did
well unuug I: but they did not lake their measures with them. no I did by my men Friday.
viz. to bevin with them upon the principle of luwing rowed their lives. and thou instruct
them in the rntiunul principles of ire. much lute 01' religion. eivilizing and reducing them
b kind usage uud "menu-mm nrgniugn: but. mu they "'0 them their food every day. no

my gave them t ir work too. uud kept them fully empiiiyed in drudgery enough; but they
failed in this by it. thnt they never hud them to minim. them and light for them, m; l lmd my
mun Friday. wlm \vnn no true to me ox the very llrnh upon m bones.

But to come to the linnily purl. lleing nIl new good riende (for common dnngcr, as I
nnid above. had elTr-ctnnlly reconciled them). they began to cunnider their gouerul circum-
ntuneeu. und the lirnt thing thnt come under their coneidelutiun was. u'hethcneeeiug the sevugea
luwticulnrly hnnuled thnt side of the iulnud. nod thnt them were more remote nad retired
purtn of it equally ndapled to their way of living. and nmnifextly to their mlvnnlnge. they
nhould not rather rennn-e their hnbitutiuumlnl plant in some more proper place for their security,
and eiqweinlly for the u-<<mrity of their enttle nud corn.

Upon this. after long debate. it \vnx concluded that they would not remove their hnbitntion,
because thnt uome time or other they thought they might hear from their governor again,
Ineluliug mo; end if I nhould neud nuy one to seek them.l should be sure to direct them on
thnt aide. where. if they should find the plaeo demolinhed. they would conclude the sevnges had.
killed luI ull. uml we were gone. end no our on ply would go too.

But no to their corn and euttle. they ngrou to remove them into the valley where my cove
wns, where the hunl win; no proper for both, end where. indeed. there wnu loud enough;
however. upon neeond thought. they altered one part of thnt resolution mo. and resolved only
to remove port of their cattle thither and plant port of their corn there; and so. if one port
\vnn doutro ed, the other might be saved; end one piece of prudence they used. which it was
ver well my did. vim. thnt the never trusted those three savages. which they hnd prisoners,
wit: knowing nuythiug ol' the p nntetion they had made in thnt volley. or of any cattle they
had there. much lean of the cove them. which they kept in case of neeexnity. as u. note retreat,
nnd whither they curried nleo the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my coming
mm .

Biit. however. they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they agreed. that as I had
carefully covered it unit with o well or fortification, and then with a grove of trees, so, seeing
their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they were new fully convinced,
they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more ed'ectuslly than before; to this pur-
e. as I had dplanted trees (or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees)
or some good stance before the entrance into my apartment, they went on in the same man-
ner. and filled up the rest of that whole e ace of ground, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the creek, where, as I said, landed in floats, and even into the very one where
the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to hind, or any sign that there had been any
lending thereabonts; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow, as I had noted
formerly, they took care to have generally very much larger and taller than those which I had
planted, and as they rew space so they planted them so very thick and close together, that
when they had been roe or four years grown, there was no iercing with the eye any con-
siderable way into thetKlantatiou; as for that part which I planted, the trees were grown
as thick as a man's igh; and among them they placed so many other short ones, and so
thick, that. in a word. it stood like a polisado a quarter of a mile thick. and it was next to
impoesihle to penetrate it, but with a little army, to out it all down, for a little dog could
hardly et between the trees, they stood so close.

But t is was not all; for they did the same by all the ground to the right hand, and to the
left. and round even to the top of the hill; leaving no way. not so much as for themselves to
come out, but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then lifted up. and placed
again from the first stage up to the top: which ladder. when it was taken down, nothing but
what had wings or witc craft to assist it could come at them.

This was excellently well contrived: nor was it lea than whatfiiey afterwards found occasion
for; which served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of Providence to
{notify it, so it has. doubtless, the direction of Providence to set it to work; and, would we

iston carefully to the voice of it, I am fully persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters
which our lives are new, b our own negligence, eub'ected to. But this by the way.

I return to the story: t ey lived two ears aRer t ' in ricct retirement, and bed no more
visits fremthe savages: they had in an alarm given t em one morning, which put them
into a great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one morning on the west
side, or rather the end of the island, which. b the way. was that end where I never went, for
feur_of bei discovered. they were surp ' with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians just
Wmlng on 8 ore.

The made the best of their wa home, in hurry enough; and giving the alarm to their
com es. they kzpt close all that ay and the next, going out only at night, to make chum;-
tion: but they h the luck to be mistaken - for wherever the savages want, they did not
land that time on the is ud, but ursued some other design.

And new they had another bror with the three Englishmen; one of which, a most turbulent
fellow, being in a rage with one of the three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because
the fellow had not done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a little ontractabls
in his showing him. drew a hatchet out of e f vbelt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell
upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to ' him. One of the Spaniards, who was by,
see' him 've the fellow a barbarous out with the hatchet, which he armed at his head, but
strut: into fie shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm ofl', ran to him,
and entreating him not to murder the poor man, clapped in between him and the savage, to
prevent the mischief. .

The fellow. being enraged the more at this. struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet. and
swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard percei ' ,
avoided the blow, and with a shovel, which he had in his hand (for they all were working in the
field about their corn land), knocked the brute down : another of the Englishmen. running at
the same time to help his comrade. hooked the Spaniard down; and then two Spmiards more
came to help their men, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had none of th

.,r.- re.
tool: the three Englishmen prisoners. The next question was. What should be done with them P

They had been so often matiuous. and were so furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that

the lrnew not what course to take with them, for the were mischievous to the highest degree,

ti: valued not what hurt they dill to any man; so t rat, in short, it was not safe to live with
em.

The Spaniard who was governor, told them in so many words, that if they had been his own
countrymen, he would have hanged them: for all laws. and all governors. was to preserve
society; and those who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it: but as
they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that they
all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all Jarossible lenity, and
would leave thorn to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were air countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood. up, and said, they desired it might not be left to
them: "For," says he, " 1 am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows; " and with that
he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three. had proposed to have all the five
Englishmen join other, and murder all the S anianls, when they were in their sleep.

When the S auis Igovornor heard this. he cal s to William Atkins. " How, Seigaior Atkins,"
says he. " won d you murder us all P What have you to say to that P " That hardened villain
was so far from den ing it, that he said it was true, and " G--d d----mn him they would do it
still before they h done with them." " Well, but Sei nior Atkins," said the S aiard, " what
have we done to you that you will kill us? And w mt would you get b h' 'a us? And
what must we do to prevent yau killing as 1' Must we lrill you, or you will ill us Why will
yourput as to the necessity this, Seigaior Atkins?" says the Spaniard very calmly and
sun mg.

Seignior Atkins was in such usage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not
been held by three men, and withal had no wen ions near him. it was thought he would have
attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the mid Is at all the company.

This hair-bmimsl carriage 0in ed them to consider seriously what was to be done. The two
Englishmen and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage. was of opinion, they should hang' one
of the three for an exam Is to the rest; and that particularly it should be he that had twice
attempted to commit mu or with his hatchet; and indeed there was some reason to believe he
had done it, for the nor savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound ho had.
received, that it was t nought he could not live.

But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an Englishman that had saved all their
lives, and he would never consent to up): an Englishman to death, though he had murdered
half of them s nay, he said. if he had a killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left
to s eh, it should he that they should pardon him.

'lihcis was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there was no gainsayiag
it: and as merciful counsels are most a )t to prevail. w rere they are so earnestly pressed; so
they all came into it: but then it wasto considered, what should be done to keep them from
doing the mischief they designed : for all agreed, governor and all, that means were who used
for preserving the society iron) dan or. After a long debate it was aimed, first. that they
should be disarrned. and not permitte' to have either m, or powder. or s ot, or sword, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society, an left to live where they would, and how
they would, by themselves: but that none of tlru rest, either Spaniards or English, should coa-
verso with thorn, speak with them, or have anything to do with thorn; that they should be for-
bid to come within a certain distance of the pleoew ore the rest dwelt: and that if they offered
to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destro any of the corn, plantings, build-
ings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, that they a ould die without mercy, and they
would shoot them wherever they could find them.

' 'he governor, a man of great humunit , musing upon the sentence, considered a little I: a
it; and turning to the two honest Englis area, said. "Hold! you must reflect that it ' be
long ore they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must not starve; we must there-
fore allow them provisions." So be caused to be added, that they should have a roportion of
corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time they might be
an posed to raise some oftheir own; that they should have six ranch-goats, four he- ts,
six kids, given them, as well for resent subsistence, as for a store; and that they s onld
have tools given them for their work in the field; such as six hatchets, an are, a saw, and the
like. But they should have none of these tools or provisions. unless they would swear solemnly,
that they would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or their fellow-Englishmen.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them'ont to shift for themselves. They
went away sullen and refracto . as neither contented to go away or to stay; but as there
was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and chose a place where th should settle them-
selves, to lant and live by themselves; and some provisions were 'vsn em, but no weapons.

About our or five days after, they came again for some viot . and gave the governor an :

account where they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and
plantation; and it was a very convenient place indeed, on the remotest part of the island, NE.
much about the place where landed in in first voyage, when I was driven out to am theImd
hows whither, in my attempt to surronn the island.

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in a manner like my
first habitation, being close under the side of a hill, having some trees gro ' alreadtzote the
three sides of it; so that by planting others, it would be very easily cov'hlr'esfrom sight.
unless narrowly searched for. They desired some dried Mskins for beds and covenng,
which were given them: and upon 'ving their words that th would not disturb the'rest.
or injure any of their plantations, t ey gave them hatehets, "Yum other tools they could
spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a word, anything they wanted but arms
and ammunition.

The lived in this separate condition about six months, and had gotten in their first
thong the qnanti was but small, the quantity of land they had planted being but little; (or
indeed, having all t air plantation to form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands;
and when they came to make boards, and pots, and such things, they were guite out of their
element, and could make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came on, or want of a cave
in the earth, they could not kee their grain dry, and it was in great of spoilin : and
this humbled them much; so ey came and begged the Spaniards to he p them, whi they
very readily did; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and otherthings from the rain; but it was huthaupoor place at best,
compared to mine; and especially as mine was then: for the Spaniards greatly enlarged
it, and made several new apartments in it.

Aboutth nartersof a>> car after-this separation, a newt-relic took these rogues, which.
together with former vil'lany they had committed, brought mischief enough upon them,
and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony : the three new associates began, it seems,
to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering their urcum
stances; and a whim took them, that they would make a voyage to the continent from whence
the sav s came, and would try if they could not seize upon some prisoners among the
aativce t re, and bring them home, so to make them do the laborious part of the work tor

em.

The ro'ectwasnotso repeatemuaifthe had as no further; buttheydidno ' ,and
proposgd dothing. but hadeither mischief in'the deginn, or mischiefin the event; and, if _ma
give my opinion, the seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; forif we will not allow a ".31.
curse to pursue visihle crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with the dmne
Ratios? It was certainly an apparentvsn ce on their crime of mutiny and ,that

nght them tothe state they were in; an as they showed not the least remorse or the
crime, but added new villaniee to it, such as, particularly, the piece of monstrous cruelty of
wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps wnld not, understand to _do what he
was directed; andtewoundhim in such a manner, asnoquestioumadehim a cnpple allhis
life, andin aplacewherenosnrgeonormedicine couldbehadforhisoure: and, what was still
worse, the murderous intent; or, to do justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to
besureitwas,as wasntterwards the formeddesignthey all laid, tomurderthe Spaniardssn
cold blood, and in their sleep.

 

<e,
But I leave observing, and return to the story: the three fellows came down to the Spaniards
one morning, and. in very humble terms, desired to be admitted to speak with them: the
Spaniards very readil heard what they had to say, which was this: that they were tired of
living in the manner t ey did; that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted; and that having no help, the found the should be starved; but if the Spaniards
would give them leave to take one of t 10 canoes w ieh the came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition, roportioned for their defence, they won] go over to the main, and seek their
fortune. and so (1 iver them from the trouble of snpplyin them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them; at yet very honestey represented to
them the certain destruction they were running into; told them, they had an cred such hard-
ships upon that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of prophecy, tell them, that they
would be starved or be murdered; and bade them consider of it.

The men replied nudaeiously. they should be starved if they stayed here. for they could not
work, and would not work; and they could but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered,
there was an end of them, they had no wives or children to cry after them; and, in'short,
insisted importunntely upon their demand, declaring that they would go, whether they would
give them any arms or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if the were resolved to go, they should
not like naked men. and be in no condition todel'end emsclves; and that though they
couh ill spare their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would let them have
:wotziuslrets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, which they thought sufficient
or cm.

In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to serve theme
mouth, and 'ven them as much goat's tlesh as they could eat while it was sweet. and a great
basket full 0 dried grapes, a pet full of fresh water. and a young kid alive to kill. they boldly
set out in a canoe for a vo age over the sea, where it was at least forty miles broad.

The boat was indeed a lingo one, and would have very well carried fifteen or twenty men;
and therefore was rathertoo big for them to manage: butas they had a fair breeze and the
flood-tide with them, they did well enough: they had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail
of four large gent~slrins dried, which they had sewed or laced together; an away they went
merrily enough: the Spaniards called after them " Ben Veajo ; " and no man ever thought of
seeing them an more.

The S in s would often say to one another, and the two honest Englishmen who remained
behind, ow quietly and comfortably they lived, now those three turbulent fellows were gone;
as for their ever coming again. that was the remotest thing from their thoughts canal be
imagined; when, behold, after twenty-two days' absence, one of the Englishmen being abroad
upon his planting-work. sees three strange men coming towards him at a distance, two of them
With guns upon their shoulders.

Away run the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes frightened and amazed, to the
governor Spaniard, and tells him the; were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon
the island. they could not tell who: e Spaniard pausing awhile, says to him, " How do you
mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages to be sure." "No, no," says the Englishman.
"they are men in clothes with arms." " Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are you concerned P
If they are not savages, the must be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth, but
will do us good rather than arm."

While they were debating thus, comes the three Englishmen, and standing without the wood
which was new hinted, hallooed to them; they presently knew their voices, and so all the
wonder of that degind ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another question, viz.
What could be the matter, and what made them come back again P

It was not long before they brought the men in; and inquiring where they had been, and
what they had been doing. they gave them a full account of their voyage. in a few words, viz.
That they reached the land in two days, or something less; but finding the people alarmed at
than coming. and preparing with bows and arrows to fight them, they dnrst not go on shore,
but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they came to a great opening. by which
they perceived that the land they saw from our island was not the main, but an island: tbnt
entering that o uing of the see, they saw another island on the right hand north, and several
more west; on hei resolved to lend somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west. and went be dly on shore; that the! found the geople very courteous and friendly to
them. and they gave them several roots, an some dried sh, and up very sociable; and
the women, as well as the men. were very forward to supply them w: anything they could get
for them to out, and brought it to them a greet way u in their heads.

They continued here four days. and inguired, as w as th could of them signs, what
nations were this way. and that way; en were told of sev fierce and terrib people that
lived almost every way; who, as ey made signs to them, need to eat men; but as for them-
selves. the{ said, that they never ate men or women, exee t only such as they took in the wars,
and then t ey owned that the made a. great feast, and aa their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired w on the had a least of that kind; and they told them about two
moons ago, pointing to the moon, audythen to two fingers; and that their king had two
hundred prisoners now. which he had taken in hie war; and the were i 'ug them to make
them fat for the next feat. The Englishmen seemed mighty 'rone to see those prisoners;
but the other mistaking them, than ht they were desirous to have some of them to
any for their own eating. So they nod to them, ' ling to the setting of the sun, so
then to the risin ; which was to signify, that fire nextpom . at sun-rising, they would
bring some for em; and ueoordin l , the next morning, they brought down five women. and
eleven men; and gave them to the nglishmen to carry with them on their voynge, just as we
would brin so many cows and oxen down to a seaport town. to vietnnl a ship.

As brutie und barbarous as these fellows were I home, their stomachs turned at this sight,
and they did not know whet to do : to refuse the prisoners would have been the highest afi'ront
tothe savage gentry that od'ered them; and whet to do with them they knew not: however,
upon some debate, the resolved to accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that
brought them one of eir hatchete, an old hey, a. knife, and six or seven oftheir bullets, which,
though they did not understand, they seemed extremely glossed with : and then, tying the poor
creetuxee' hands behind them, they (the people) dragged e poor prisoners into the boat for our
men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them, or else they that gave
them this noble present, would oerteinlzhhnve expected that they should have gone to work
Hith themdllrve killed two or three of cm the next morning, and perhaps have rnvitedthe

onors to ' ner.

But, having taken their leave with all the respect and thanks that could wellpaesbetween
people, where, on either side. they understood not one word they could say. they put of wrth
their boat, and came heel: towards the first island. where, when they arrived, they set eight of
their prisoners at liberty, there bein too many of them for their omeion. _ _ '

their voyageth endeavo to have some communication with their prisoners, but it
was impossible to m e them understand anything; nothing they could say to them, erotgrve
them, or do for them, but was looked upon as egoing about to murder them; they first ell
unbound them; but the poor oreehuee scream at that, especially the women, as r! they had
just felt gill; lserllllfeed. at their throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
11 they ve them anything to eat. it was the same thing; then they concluded itwas for
fonrthey sfi:uldeink in flesh, undso notbe fatenoughtok' : if they looked at one of them
more 'cnlerl , the party presently concluded, it was to see whether he or she was lettest
endfi tokilly; nay,aftertheyhsdbroughtthemquiteover,nudhegentousethsmlnmdly,.
andtrentthem well,sfil.l theyexpectedevery day tomnke a dinner or asuppertortheunew

      

. .
no". \a. j . ..'1

i 74 Tile Life and Adi/mill": of Robinson Crusoe.

ruesolved to go all down to the place, and see them, and did so, and Friday's father with
am.

When they came into the hut. there they sat all bound; for when they had brought them on
shore, they bound their hands, that they might not take the heat and make their escape; there,
I say, they sat. all of them stark-naked; first, there were three men, lustly, comely fel ows. well-
shaped. straight and fair limbs. about thirty to thirty-five years of age, and five women. whereof
two might be from thirty to forty. two more not above four or five and twenty, and the fifth, n.
tall,comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen : the women were well-favoured agreeable persons,
both in she and features. only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect white, would
have pass for very handsome women. even in London itself, having very pleasant agreeable
countenances. and of a. very modest behaviour. es )eeially when the came afterwards to he
clothed and dressed. as they called it, though the ress was very in 'fl'erent, it must be con-
fessed; of which iii-render.

The si lit, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards, who were (to give them
a just character) men of the best behaviour, of the most calm sedate tempers, and perfect
good-humour that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most modesty, as will present]
appear. I say the night was very uncouth, to see three naked men, and live naked women, a 1
together bound, and in the most misenible circumstances that human nature could be supposed
to be, viz. to be expecting every moment to be dra ed out, and have their brains knocked
out, and then to be eaten up like a calf that is killed or a dainty.

The first thing the did was to cause the old Indian, h'iday's father. to go in, and see first
' he know an of them; and then, if he understood any of their speech: as soon as the old
man came in, 0 locked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither could any of them
understand a word he said, or a sign he could make. except one of the women. .

However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to satisfy them, that the men into
whose hands they were fallen, were Christians; that they abliorred eating of men or women,
and that they might be sure the would not be killed: as soon as they were assured of this,
they discovered such a joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as is hard to describe;
for it seems they were of several nations.

The woman, who was their interpreter. was bid, in the next place, to ask them if they were
willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had brought them awa , to save their
lives? At which they all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking u t is. and another
thni anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that ey were willing to
war .

The governor, who found that the having the women among them would presently be attended
with some inconvenienc ', and might occasion some strife, and perhaps b ood, asked the three
man, what they intend to do with these women, and how they intended to use them, whether
as servants, or as women ? One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and readily, that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said, " I am not going torestmin you from it;
you are your own masters as to that: but this I think is but 'ust, for avoiding disorders and
[kennels among you. and I desire it of you, for that reason on , viz. that you will all engage,
t not if any of you take any of these women, as a woman, or wi e, that he shall take but one;
and that, owing taken one, none else should teach her; for though we cannot marry only of
you, yet it is but reasonable, that while you stay here, the woman any of you takes, sbou d be
maintained by the man that takes her, and. should be his wife; I mean,' says he, " while he
continues here; and that none else shall have anything to do with her." All this appeared so
just. that every one agreed to it without an diflicnlty. _

Then the Englishmen asked the S ' , if they designed totnke any of them? But every
one of them answered, No: some of them said they had wives in Spain; and the others did not
hire women that were not Christians; and all together declared, that they would not touch one
of them ; which was an instance of such virtue no.1 have not met with in all my havels; on the
other head, to be short, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife; that is to say, a tem-
fiorary Wife; and so they set up a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father

ved in my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within; the three servants

---o.-
which they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived with them; and these carried on
the mainpsrt of the colon . supplying all the rest with food, and assisting them in anything
as they could, or as the found necessity required.

But the wonder of ' story was, how five such refractory, ill-matched fellows should agree
about these women, and that two of them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially
seeing two or three of them were, without comparison. more le than the other: but they
took a. good way enough to prevent quarrelling emerifi themse was: for they set the five women
by themselves in one of their huts, and they went into the other hat, and drew lots among
t are who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first. went away by himself to the hut, where the poor naked
creatures were. and fetched out her he chose; and it was worth observing, that he that chose
first, took her that was reckoned the homeliest, and the oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest: and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow considered
better than any of them, that it was application and business that they were to expect assistance
in, as much as anything else; and she proved the best wife of allthe parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched out one by one, the
terrors of their condition returned upon them again and they firmly believed that they were now
going to be devoured : aeoordinilrv, when the English sailor came in and fetched out one of them
the rest set up a most lnmenta a cry, and hung about her, and took their leave of her with
such nies and such affection. as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was
it 1 is for the Eu lishmen to satisf them that they were not to be immediatel murdered,
til they fetched the o (1 man, Friday's other, who instantly let them know, that e five men
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives.

Whenthey had done, and the fright the women were in was a little over, the man went to
work, and the Spaniards came and helped them; and, in a few hours, they had built them eve
one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had already were crowded with
their tools, household stud, and provisions. The three wicked ones had itched farthest of;
and the two honest ones nearer. but both on the north shore of the islan , so that the con-
tinued separated as before : and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, ad mig t say,
three towns were begun to be planted.

And here it is very well worth observing. that as it often happens in the world (what the wise
ends of God's providence are in such a disposition of things. I cannot say), the two honest
fellows had the two worst wives; and the three reprohatee,-that were scarce worth hanging,
that were lit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do themselves good or any one she. had
three clever, diligent. careful, and intgfuicus wives; not that the two first were ill wives as
to their temper or humour; for all a five were most willing, quiet, sive and subjected
creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my meaning is, they were notafihg capableyingsnious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and nest.

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent application on one hand, and
to the disgrace of a slothi'ul, negligent, idle temper on the other, that when I came to the place,
and viewed the several improvements, fgloating. and management of the several little colonies,
the two men had so far outgone the res, that there was no ccmgarison: they had indeed
both of them as much ground laid out for corn as they wanted; an the reason was.hecause,
according to my rule, nature dictated, that itwae to no am to sow more corn than they
wanted; but the difi'erenee of the cultivation, of the p ntrng, of the fences, and Indeed of
eve ingelsawueasytobesesnatfirstview. .

6 two men had innumerable oung trees planted about their hats, that when'you came to
the place nothing was to be seen at a wood; and though they had twice had their plantation
demolished. once by their own countrymen. and once by theenemy, as shall be shown in its

yet they had restored all again, and everything was thriving and flourishing about them;

ey had grapes planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they had themselves
neverseeaeuythrng of that kind; and by eirfiofordenng then-meathmrgre _ were
"32%.". asanyoftheothers. Theyhed foundtemselvesontare mthe
{hi partofthewoodgwhmthoughtherewasnatanahrralcave,asIhedfonndget
they made one with incessant labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief which fol-
lowed happened, they secured their wives and children. so as tho could never be found; they
having. by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood. w ich. as I said, grew so easil ,
made the wood unpassable, except in one place. where they climbed up to get over the ontsi e
part, and then went in by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three repmbates. as I justly call them, though they Ivere ranch civilized by their
new settlement compared to what they were before, on were not so quarrelsome. havr not
the same opportunity. yet one of the certain companions of a prodigato mind never left em.
and that was their idleness. It is true the planted corn. and made fences; but Solomon's
words were never better verified than in t ern. " I went by the vineyard of the slothful.
and it was all overgrown with thorns ; " for when the Spaniards came to view their crop, they
could not see it in some places for woods; the hedge had several ps in it, where the wild goats,
had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dam bush was crammed in, to stop
them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable door after the steed was stolen;
whereas, when they looked on the colony of the other two. there was the very face of industry
and success upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn. or a gap in
an of their hedges; and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another lace,
"first the diligent hand makes rich; " for everything grow and thrived, and they had p enty
within and without; they had more tame cattle than the other, more utensils and accessories
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too.

it is true. the wives of the three were very handy and cleanl within doors; and havin
learned the English ways ofdressin and oookrn from one of the )uglishmen, who. as I sai .
was cook's male on board the ship, t ey dressed t cir husbands' victuals very nicely and well;
whereas the other could not be brou ht to understand it; but then the husband. who, as I say,
had been cook's mate. did it himeel ; but. as for the husbands of the three wives, the leitenod
about. fetched tnrtlcs' eggs, and caught fish and birds; in a word, an thing but In or. and
the fared accordingly. 'lhe diligent lived well and comfortable; and t e slothful lived hard
an garly; and so I believe, generally speaking. it is all over the world.

But now come to a scene different from all that had happened before, either to thorn or
me: and the original of the story was this.

Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes of Indiana, or savages, call them
which he" please; and them is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding
upon t eir slaves; but that part was now so familiar to the Spaniards. and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves about it, as I did; but, having been made sensible by
their experience, that their only business was to lie concealed, and that. if they were not seen
by any of the savages. they would go off again quietly, when their business was done, having
as yet not the least notion of there being an inhabitants in the island; I say, having been
made sensible of this, they had nothingto do at to ive notice to all the three plantations
to keep within doors, and not to show themselves; on y placing a scout in a proper place, to
give notice when the beats went to sea again.

This was, without doubt. very right; but a. disaster spoiled all these measures. and made it
known among the savages, that there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the
desolation of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone ofl', the
Spaniards pooped abroad again. and some of them had the curiosity to go to the place where
they had been, to see what they had been doing. Here. to their great surprise, the found
three savages left behind. and lying fast asleep upon the ground; it was supposodt ey had
either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, mwere asleep, and would
not stir when the others went, or they were wandered into the w , and did not come back
in time to be taken in. . _ .

Tho Spaniards were greatly as used at this srght, and perfectly at a less what to do; the
Spaniard governor, as it happen . was with them, and his advice was asked: but he professed
he knew not what to do; as for slaves. the had enough already; and as to killing them, they
were none of them inclinedtothst; the ponisrd governor told me they could not think of
shedding innocent blood; for as to them the poor creatures had done thorn no wrong. invaded
none of their property; and they thought they had no just quarrel against them to take
away their lives.

And here I must, in justice to theu Spaniards, observe, that lot the accounts of Spanish
cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will. I never met with seventeen men, of any
nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous
so very good-humoured, and so courteous, as these Spaniards; and, as to cruelty, they had
nothing of it in their very nature; no inhumanity, no harbority, no outrageous passions, and
yet all of them men of t con and spirit.

Their tem and oa muses appeared in their hearing the unsufi'erable usage of the
three Englis men; and their justice and humanity appeared now in the case of the savage.
as above; afier some consultation. they resolved upon this, that they would lie still a w 'le
longer, till, it possible, these three men might be gone: but then the governor Spaniard recol-
looted that the three savages had no boat; and that if they were left to rove about the island,
they, would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it, and so they should be undone

ll W -

Uponythis they went back again. and there lay the fellows fast asleep still; so they
resolved to waken them, and take them prisoners; and they did so; the poor fellows were
stronger fri htened when they were seized upon and bound, and afraid, like the women, that
they should murdered and eaten; for it seems those people think all the world does as they
do, eating men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that; and away they carried them.

It was very happ to them. that they did not carry them home to their castle; I mean to
my palace under tge hill; but they carried them first to the bower, where was the chief of
their country work; such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, M, and afterwards
the carried them to the habitation of t a two Englishmen.

cre they were set to work. though it was not much they had for them to do; and whether
it was I) negligence in guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend them-
selves, know not, but one of them run away; and. taking into the woods, they could never
hear of him more.

They had reason to believe he got home again soon after in some other boats or canoes
of eav , w 0 came on shore three or four weeks afierwurds, and. who, can-yin _ on their revels
as usua , went ofi' again in two days' time; this the ht terrified them or ly; for they
concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, at if this fellow got sate ome amen
his comrades, he would certainly give them an account thatthsre werbeJeople in the islanrf
as also howweak and fswthey were; for this savage, as I observed ore, had never been
told, and itwasve happ he had not, how many they were, orwhsre they lived, nor had
he ever seen or h the die of any of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their
other retired places. such as the cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the two
Englishmen had made, and the like.

The first testimony they had. that this fellow had 'ven intelligence of them was,_ that about
two months after the, six canoes of savages, with at seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe,
came rowing along the north side of the island, where they never used to come before. and
landed about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient lace, about a milefirom the habitation
of. the we Englishmen, where this escaped man hadp been kept: as the Spaniard governor
lard,hadtheybeensllthsmthedamsgewouldnothavebeen so much,ior notamanofthern
would have escaped; but the case difered now very much; for two men to fifty was too
much adds; the two men had the happiness to discover them about a . o of, sothat It
was above an hour before they landed; and as they landed a mile from their ute, rt was some
trme before they could come at them. Now having great reason to behave that they were
betrayed. the first thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left. and cause two
of the three men, who the brought with the women, who, it seems, proved. very faithful to
them, to lead them with t ' two wives, and whatever they could car-'2 away with them,
to their retired place in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and ere to bind the two
fellows hand and foot till they heard farther.

Intheuertphcqswngthenvagesmmaflwmeonshomandthattheybsnttheir
x
course directly that way, they opened the fences where their milchgp'mts were kept, and drove
them all out, leaving their goats to struggle into the woods, whit or they. leased, that the
savages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came w: them was too
cunning for that, and glove them an account of it all; for they went directly to the place.
When the two poor frig toned men had secured their wives and goods, they sent the other slave
they had of the three, who came with the women, and who was at their place by accident,
away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help:
and in the meantime they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated
towards the place in the wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance; yet so that
the mi ht see, if possible, which way the savages took. _

hey lad not gone far, but that from a rising ground, they could see the little army of their
enemies come on directly to their hnhitutien, and in a moment more could see all t eir huts
and household--stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mortification; for they had
a very great loss, to them irretriovahlc, at least for some time.

They kept their station for a while. till they found the savages, like wild beasts, s read
themselves all over the place, rummaging every way, and every place they could thin of,
in search for prey; and, in particular, for the people, of whom it new plainly appeared they
had had intelligence.

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where they stood, as it
was likely some of the wild people might come that way, so they might come too many together,
thought it proper to make aunt ier retreat about half a mile farther, behaving, as it afterwards
happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be together.

0 next halt was at the entrance into 9. var thick grown part of the woods, and where an
old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow, an vastly urge; and in this tree they both tool:
their standing, resolving to see what might offer.

They had not stood there long, but two of the savages appeared running directly that way,
as if they had already had notice where they stood, and were coining up to attack them;
and a little way farther they spied three more coming after them, and five more beyond
them, all coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a dis-
:ehnoe running another way; for, in award, they run every way, like sportsmen heating for

err vame.

Th: poor men were now in great pcgflexity, whether they should. stand. and keep their
posture, or fly; hut, alter a ver short abate with themselves. they considered that if the
savages ranged the country t us, before help came, they might, perha find out their
retreat in the woods, and then all would be lost; so they resolved to to stan them there, and
if there were too man to deal with, then they would get to the top of the tree, from whence
they doubted not to do end themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, though
all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty, were to attach them.

Having resolved upon this. they next considered whether they should file at the first
two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party, by which the two and the five that
followed would be separated; and they resolved to let the two first pass by, unless they should
s y them in the tree, and come to attack them. The two first savages also confirmed them in
t us regulation, by turning a little from them towards another rt of the wood; but the three,
and the five after them, cume forwards directly to the tree, as ' they had known the English-
men were there.

Seeing them come so strai ht towards them, theyI resolved to take them in a line as they came,
and as they resolved to fire ut one at a time, r ups the first shot mi ht hit them all three;
to which urpose the man who was to fire pn three or four small h eta into his piece, and
haying a air loophole. as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without
hegng seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not
me.

While they were thus waiting, and the savages cams on, they plainly saw that one of
tile-three was the runaway savage that had esea from them, and they both knew him
distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he shoal not escape, though they should both fire;
so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be
sure to have a second.

But the first wasjno good a marksman to miss his aim; for. as the savages kefit near one
another, a little behind in a line, in a word he fired, and hit two of them directly; e foremost
was killed outright, being shot in the head; the second. which was the runaway Indian. was
shot through the body, and fall, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch in

the shoulder, perhalils by the same ball that went through the body of the second; and
being dreadinl y trig tened, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground screaming and

yelling in a hideous manner.

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than sensible of the danger,
stood still at first; for the woods made the sound athousand times bigger than it really was.
the echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, screamin , and
making every sort, a several kind of noise. according to their had, just as it was when i fired
the first gun, that. perhaps, was ever shot ofi' in that lace since it was an island.

However, all being "out again, and they not nowing what the matter was, came on
unconcerned till they came to the place where their com 'ons lay, in a condition miserable
enough; and here mr ignorant creatures. not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, all 0 a huddle over the wounded man. talking, and. as ma be an
posed. in airing of him how he came to be hurt; and who, 'tis very rational to ' to
them tha a flash of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from their gods, had killed
those two, and wounded him. This, I say, is rational; for nothingis more certain than that,
as they saw no man near them, so they had never heard a gun in alltheir lives, or so much as '
heard of a in; neither knew they anything of killing or wounding at a distance with fire and C
bullets; if ey had, one might reasonably believe, that they woul not have stood so uncon-
cerned, in viewing the fate of their fellows, without some apprehension of their own.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to be obliged to kill so man
poor creatures, who at the same time had no notion of their danger; yet, having them
thus in their power, and the first having loaded kinetic" again, resolved to latex both tom
among them; and sin ling out by agreement whi to aim at, they shottog er, and '
or very much wound , four of them; the fifth, fi-lifhtened even to death, though not hurt
all wig: the rest; so that our men, seeing them a fall together, thought they had killed

em .

The belief that the savages were all lrillad, made our two men come boldly out from the tree
befm they had charged their guns afiein, which was a wrong step; and they were under
some surprise, when they came to the p re, and found no less than four of the men alive, and
of them, two very little hurt, and one not at all; this obliged them to fall upon them with
the stocks of their muskets; and, first, they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been
the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in his knee, and put them _ont of
their pain; then the man that was not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with his
two hands held up, and made piteous moans to them by gestures and signs, for his life,but
could not say one word to them that they could understand.

However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a treethere _; and one _of the
Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine. which he had by greatchaneezn . ket, tied his
two fast fast together, and his two hands behind him. and there they left _ and, with
what speed they could, made after the other two which were gone before, feannslthey, or . -
any more of them, should find the way to their revered place in the woods, where err wives ' .-
au the few goods they had left lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but it was at
agreatdistance; howevar,theyhodtheeahstacfiontaseethemcrossoveravalleyfiewardsthe
sea, the quite contrary we from that which led to their retreat, which they were afraid of;
and. being satisfied with th'at, th went back to the tree where they left their neoner, who,
as they supposed. was delivered his comrades; for he was gone. and the pieces of
re e-yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.

h were now in as great aconeern as before, not knowing what ooursetotake, or how
near enemy mightbqorinwhstnnmbers; eotgey reeolvodtogo awaytothe plaeewhere
I .

 

 

   
   
 
     

eta-gm}:
their wives were,to see if all was well there, and to make them sag, who were in fright
enough to be sure; for though the savages were their own country to , yet they were most'
terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more, for the knowledge they had of them.

When they come there, they found the savages had been in the wood, and very near that
place, but had not found it; for it was, indeed, inaccessible by the trees standing so thick,
as before, had not the persons seeking it been directed by thou that knew it, which these
did not; they found. therefore, everything very safe, only the women in a terrible fright; while
they were here. they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance;
he other ten, with their servants, and old Friday--I mean Friday's hither--were gone in
a bed to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that was host there, in case the savages
shoal have roved over to that side of the country; but they di not spread sofar. With
the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages, who, as sui were their prisoners for-
merly, and with them also came the gov e who the Englishmen had left hound hand and
foot at the tree; for it seems they came at way, saw the slaughter of the seven men. and
unbound the eighth, and brought him along with them, where, however, they were obliged to
bind him again, as they had the two others who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners began now to be a. burden to them ; and they were so afraid. of their escaping,
that they were once resolving to kill them all, behaving they were under an absolute necessity
to do so, for their own preservation: however, the Spaniard over-nor would not consent to it;
but ordered, for the present, that the should be sent out of t a way to in old cavein the valley,
and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them, and give them f for their subsistence;
which was done, and they were bound there hand and foot for that night.

When the Spaniards mime, the two Englishmen were so encouraged, that th could not satistfy
themselves to stay any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards, an themselves, wi
four muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout narter slaves, awe they went in quest
of the savages; and first, they came to the tree where a men lay that had been killed; but it
was easy to see, that some more of the savages had been there; for they had attemptcdtocarry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but had given it over; from
thence they advanced to the first rising ground, where they had stood and saw their camp
destroyed, and where they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke; but neither
could the here see any of the savages: they then resolved, though with all possible Caution, to
go forward towards their mined plantation; but a little before they came thither, coming in
sigll: of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order

one.

Thegy seemed sorry at first; and there was no we? to come at them, to give them a parting
blow; but, u n the whole, were very well satisli tobe rid of them.

The poor 'nglishnicn being new twice ruined, and all their im rovement destroyed, the
rest all agreed to come and help them rebuild, and to assist them wi nesdful supplies. Their
three count 'men, who were not yet noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet,
as soon as my heard of it (for they, livin remote eastward, knew nothin of the matter till
all was over), come and ofi'ered their help an assistance, and did very friend y work for several
days, to restore their habitation. and make necessaries for them; and thus, in alittle time,
they were set upon their 1 again. .

About two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of seeing three of the savagee'
canoes come driving on shore, and at some distance from them, two drowned men; by which
they had reason to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea, and had overset some of
them; for it had blown very hard the very night after the went ofi.

However, as some might misearry, so, on the other hun , enough of them escaped to inform
the rest, as well of what they had done as of what had happened to them; and to whet them
on to another enterprise of the same nature, which they, it seems, resolved to attempt. with
sufiicient force to carry all before them: for, except what the first man had told them of
inhabitants, they could any little to it of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man, aim
the fellow being killed that had afirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm it to them.

It was five or six months after this, before they heard any more of the savages, in which
time our men were in hopes they had either forgot their former bad luck, or 'ven over the .
hopes of better. when. on a sudden. they were invaded with s. most formidable ect. of no less
thnn eight and twenty canoes full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in
short, it put all our ple into the utmost consternation.

As they came on s are in the evening, and at the easternmost side of the island, our men had
that night to consult and consider what to do; and in the first place, knowing that their being
entirely concealed was their only safety before, and would much more be so now, while the
number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved first of all, to take down the hut-
which were built for the two En lishmen, and drive away their goats to the old cave: because
they supposed the savages wo d go directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old
game over again, though they did not new land within two leagues of it.

In the next lace, they drove away all the flock of goats the had at the old bower. as I
called it, which onged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as ' e e pssrence of inhabitants
anywhere as was possible: and the next morning early they posted emselvee with all their
force. at the plantation of the two men, and wait for their comin . As the guessed, so is
happened; these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end 0 the islan . came ranging
along the shore, directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred and fifty. as near as
our men could ljudge. Our army was but small indeed; but, that which was worse, they had

not arms for al their number neither. The whole account, it seems, stood thus. First-e to
men :--

17 Spaniards.
5 En lishmen.
1 01 Friday. or Friday's father.
3 The three slaves, taken with the women, who proved very faithful.
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards.

'l'o arm these they had
11 Muskcts.
5 Pistols.
3 Fowling pieces.
5 Muskets, or fowling pieces, which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom
I reduced.
2 Swords.
3 Old halberts.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but they had every one a halbert,
or a lon stsfi, like scanner stafl. with a t spike of iron fastened into each end of it.
and by ' side e. hat et; also eve one our men had hatchets. Two of the women could
not be prevailed upon, but they won d come into the fight; and they had bows and views.
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages, when the first action happened, which I
have spoken of. where the Indians fought with one another; and the women hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor. whom I have described so often, commandodthe whole; andWm.
Atkin, who, though a dreadful follow for wickedness. was a men daring bold fellow, oom-
manded under him. The savages came forward like lions, and our men, which was the worst of
their fate. had no advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most
useful fellow, with six men, was lanted just behind a smell thicket of bushes. as an advanced
guard, with orders to let the fire of them pass by, and then fire into the middle of them; and,
as soon as he had fired to make his retreat as nimbly as he_ could, round a port of the wood,
and": come in behindthe Spaniards where they stood, hevrng a thicket of trees also before

em.

Whentheuvagucameomthsyrun Hngaboutmrywoyinheamontolnllmnnner
of order; and W. Atkins let about (if of em pass by him; then, seerpg the rest comsun a
very thick threng.he orders three oi ' men to fire,havmgloadedtheir mnsketswrthnxou'
seven bullets a-piccc, about as big as large pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded,
they knew not; but the consternation and surprise was inexpressible among the sava es, they
were frightened to the last degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men ki led, and.
others hurt. but see nobody that did it; when in the middle of their fright, W. Atkins, and
his other three, let fly again among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute, the other
three being loaded again, gave them a third volley.

Had W. Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as the had fired, as they were
ordered to do; or had the rest of the body been at hand to have pen in their shot continuall ,
the savages had been effectually rented; for the terror that was among them came rineisalry
from this, viz. that they were killed by the gods with thunder and ightning, an eoul see
nobody that hurt them; but W. Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat; some of
the savages, who were at a distance, spying them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins
and his men fired at them also, two or three times, and killed above twenty. retiring as fast
as they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and. killed one of his fellow Englishmen with
their arrows, as they did afterwards one 8 niard. and one of the Indian slaves who came
with the women; tlus slave was a most lant fellow, and fought most dcsperatel ,killing
five of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one of the armed stoves and a atehet.

Our men being thus hard laid at. Atkins wounded, and two other men killed, retreated to a
rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them, retreated
also; for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that though above fifty of
them were killed, and more than so many wounded, et they came on in the teeth of our men,
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a clou ; and it was observed that their wounded
men], who were not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like
ma men.

When our men retreated, the left the Spaniard and the Englishman that was killed, behind
them; and the savages, when 1. cy came up to them, killed them over again in awretehed man-
ner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs, and wooden swords, like true savages.
But, finding our men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them. but drew themselves up in
a kind of a ring, which is, it seems, their custom; and shouted twice, in token of their victory.
After which, they had the mortifieation to see several of their wounded men fall, dying with the
mere loss of blood.

The S aniurd governor having drawn his little body up to thcr, upon a rising ground,
Atkins, trough he was wounded, would have had him marehe , and charged them again all
together at once; but the Spaniard replied, " Seiguior Atkins, you see how their wounded men
fig t: let them alone till morning. All these wounded men will be stiff and sore with their
wounds, and faint with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to engage.

The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, " That is true, Sei nior, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason 1 would go on, while I am warm." "Well, gSeiguior Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly, and done your gart; we will fight for you, if
you cannot come on ; but I think it best to stay till morning." 0 they waited.

But as it was a clear moon-light night, and they found the savages in great disorder about
their dead and wounded. men, and a great hurry and noise among them where they lay, they
afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the night. especially if they could come to give them
but one volley before they were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do. For one
of the two En lishmen, in whose quartenit was where the fight n, led them round between
the woods an the seaside, westward, and then taming short soat , they came so near where
the thickest of them lay, that before they were seen or heard, eight of them fired in among
them; and did dreadful execution upon them: in half a. minute more eight others fired after
themelponring in their small shot in such a. quantity, that abundance were killed and wounded;
and this while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which we to f! '.

The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expedition. and then thvidedy themselves into
three bodies, and. resolved to fall in among them altogether: they had in each body ' ht

rsons that is to say, twenty-four, whereof were twenty-two men, and two women, who, y

0 way, fought desperately.
They divided the firearms equally in each rty, and so of the halberie and staves. They
would have had the women hes back; but ey said they were resolved to die with their
husbands. Ha ' thus form their little army. the marched out from among the trees,
and came up to e teeth of the enemy, shouting and 00' as loud as they could; the
savages stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion, ear-lug the noise of our men
shouting from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had seen us: and, as
soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were shot. and poor old Friday was
wounded, though not dangerously. But our men gave them no time; but, running up tothem,
fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt-ends of their muskets, their swords,
armed stoves and hatchets; and laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howl' , flyinghto save their lives which way soever they could.

Our men were ' with e execution; and killed, or mortally wounded in the two fights,
about 180 of them; the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the woods, and
over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet could help them to do; and as we did not
trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got altogether to the maids, where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible
storm of windthat evening from the sea-ward; so that it was impossible for them to go 01!;
nay, the storm continuing all ni ht. when the tide came u , their canoes were most of them
driven b the surge of the see so ' h n n the shore, that it required infinite toil to get them
off; on some of them were even dash to ieoes against the beach, or 'nst one another.

Our men, the h glad of their victory, ye got little rest that night; nt havin refreshed
themselves as we as they could, they resolved to march to that pert of the islan where the
savages were lied, and. see what lipstnre the were in. This newssarily led them over the lace
where the ht had been, andw ere they end several of the poor creatures not quite Seed,
and yet recovering life: e si ht disagreeable enough to generous minds; for a truly great
men, though obliged by the law 0 battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery.

However, there was no need to give any orders in this case; for their own savages, who
were their servants, dsspstohed those poor creatures with their hatchets.

At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable remains of the savsgee'
army lay, where there appeared about 100 still; their are was generally sitting nponthe
and, with their knees up towards their mouth, and a head put between the two hands.

ing down upon the knees.

When our men came within two musket shot of them, the Spaniard governor ordered two
muskets to be fired without ball. to alarm them; this he did. that b their countenance he
might know whatto expect, viz. whether they were still in heart to fig t, or were so heartily
beaten, as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so he might manage accordingly.

This stratsgem took; forassoonas the savages heard the firstgnn, and sawthe flash of
the second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation imaginable; and,"
our men advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screamin and yawling swig, with a
kind of a howling noise, which our men did not understand, an had never heard 0 and
thus they run up the hills into the country.

At first, our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and they had all gone away
to sea; but they did not then consider that this might robably have been the occasion oftherr
coming again in such multitudes as not to he rose , or, at least. to come so many and so
often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not-
withstanding his wound, kept alwo with them, roved the best counsellor in this case; his
advice was. to inks the advantage at adored, an clap in between them and their boats, and
so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more to p e the island.

They consulted long about this, and some were against it, or car of making the wretohes
fly into the woods, and live there desperate; and so they should have them to hunt like _wild
beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plantations continually rifled,
all their tame goats destro ed. and. in short. be reduced to a his of continual distress.

Will Atkins told them tgey had better have to do with one hundred men than with one hun-
drednations; thatss they mustdesh'oytheirboatssothsy mnstdestroythcmen,orbe all a!
them destroyed themselves. In a word. he showed them the necessity of it so plainly that they
all came into it; so they went to worlr immediately with the boats, and. ttin some dry
wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on lire; at t ey were so
wet that they would not burn. However, the fire so burned the upper part that it soon made
them unlit for swimming in the sea as hosts. When the Indians saw what they were about,
some of them came running out of the woods, and. coming as near as they could to our men.
kneeled down and cried, " On. On. \Vnramokoa," and some other words of their language which
none of the others understood anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and strsn e
noises. it was easy to understand they begged to have their boats spared, and that they won (1
be gone and never come there again.

But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve themselves or to save
their colony, but all'cctunlly to prevent any of these people from ever going home again; do-
pendin upon this that if ever so much as one of them got back into their country to tell the
story he colony was undone; so that letting them know that they should not have any
more , they fell to work with their canoes an destroyed them every one that the storm had
not estroyed before; at the sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods.
which our )oople heard plain enough; after which they run about the island like distracted
men; so at, in a word, our men did not redly know at first what to do with them.

Nor did the S )auiards. with all their rudence, consider that while they made those people
thus desperate, t ey ought to have lisp? good guard at the same time upon their plantations;
for though it is true they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find out their
main retreat. I menu my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley; yet they found
out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting
about it. trod all the corn under foot, tore up the Vine: and grapes. being just then almost
ripe, and did to our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one farthiug
worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet the were in no condition
to pursue them or hunt them up and down, for as they were too nimh e of foot for our men
when they found them single. so our men durst not go about single, for fear of being sur-
rounded with their numbers; the best wus they had no weapons; for though theyl had bows
they hndhno arrows leit, nor any mnterinlsto make any, nor had they any edged too or weapon
among t em.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and, indeed. deplorable; but
at the same time our men were also brought to very bad circumstances by them; for the h
their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed and their harvest spoil'eg;
and whatto do or which way to turn themselves they knew not; the only refuge they had
now was the stock of cattle they had in the valle by the cave. and some little corn which
grew there, and the plantation ol the three Englie men, Will Atkins and his comrades, who
were now reduced to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of
his head, 'ust under the temples. so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable that
this was t 0 same barbarous fellow who cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and who
afterwards intended to have murdered all the Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was at any time after I
first discoverml the grains of barley and rice and got into the manner of planting and rnis'
rn corn and m tame cattle, for now they hnd, as I may say, a hundred wo ves upon the islnn
w ieh would evour everything they could come at, yet could very hardly be come at
themselves.

The first thin they concluded, when the saw what their circumstances were, was that they
would, if possib 0, drive them up to the arther part of the island, south-west, that if any
more savages came on shore they might not find one another; then that they would daily hunt
and harass them and kill as man of them as they could come at, till they had reduced their
number; and if they could at ast tame them, and bring them to anything, they would give
them corn and teach them how to plant and live upon their daily labour.

In order to this, they so followed them and so terrified them with their guns, that in a
few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would fell down
for fear, and so dreadfully fri htensd they were, that they kept out of sight, farther and
farther, till at lost our men fol owing them, and every day almost killing or wounding some
of them, they kept up in the woods end hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the
utmost misery for want of food, and many were nflerwerde found deed in the woods with
out any hurt. but merely starved to death.

When our men found this it made their hearts relent, and pi moved them; especially the
Spaniard governor. who was a most gentlemanly generous-mm man as ever I met with in
in life; and he proposed, if possible/w take one of them elive end bring him to understand
w at the meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and to go among them and see if
tlhey mig t bibrought to some condition that might be depended upon to save their lives and

o no no apor

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but, being weak and half-starved,
one of them was at last sn need and made a prisoner; he was sullen at first end would
neither eat nor drink; but. ' himself kindly used and victuels given him, and no violence
ofi'crcd him, he at last grew tracts 1e end come to himself.

They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told him how kind the
other would be to them all; that they would not only save their lives, but would give them a
part of the island to live in, provided the would give satisfaction that they would keep in
their own bounds, and not come bayou it, to injure or prejudice others; and that he
should have corn given them, to plant end make it w for their breed. and some breed
given them for their present subsistence; and old F ' y beds the fellow go and talk with
the rest of his countrymen, end use what they said to it, assuring them that if they
did not agree immediate] they should be ell destroyed.

The poor wretches, omughly humbled, and reduced in number to about thirty-seven.
closed with the proposal at the first oli'er, end begged to have some food given them; upon
which twelve Spaniards end two Englishmen, well armed. with three Indian slaves and old
Friday. marched to the place where they were; the three Indian slaves carried them a large
quantity of bread. some rice boiled n to cakes and dried inthe sun, and three live goats;
and thsvwero orderedtogoto the Hi eofehill,wherethey sat down,atethe revisions very
thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to their words that could be ught of; for
except when they came to beg vietuals end directions, they never came out of than-bounds;
and there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them.

They had ten htthem both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats, and milkthem
they wanted no ' but wives, and they soon would have been a nation : they were 00
to a neck of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lyin plain towards the see
before them. on the south-east corner of the island; they had land enongfii. end it was very good
and fruitful; theyhnd a piece of land about a mile and half broad,three or four miles in.

lea .

521'" men taught them to make wooden spfies, such as I made for myself; and gave them
among them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; and there they lived, the m
subjected. innocent ereemres that ever were heard of. . .

After this, the colony en 'oyed a perfect tunquilfiiiyhgfith respect to the savages till I came to
revisit them, which was above two years; not but tnow and then some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trium he], unnatural feasts; but as they were of several nations and
perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or the reason of it. they did not make any
search or in niry after their countrymen; and, if they had, it would have been very hard
to have fonn them out.

Thus. I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to themntog return, at
least. that was worth notice. The Indiana, or savages, were wonderfully ennlr by them,
and they frequent] went am them; but forbid. _on pain of death. any one of the
Indians coming to em, because ey would not have their settlement betrayed again.

One thing was very remarkable, vre., that they taught the so to make wicker-work, or
baskets; buttheyaoon ontdidtheir mastermfortheymadea undenceolmoetrngenioue

 

 

-. _ ' Luke"?
things in wicker-work, rticularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, M" as
also chairs to sit on, she 3, beds. couches, and abundance of other things, being very ingenious
at such work when they were once at in the way of it.

My coming was a articular re icf to these people, because we furnished them with knives,
scissors, s aides, shove s, pick-axes, and all things of that kind which they could want.

With t a help of these tools, they were so very handy that they came at last to build
up their hate or houses very handsomely. raddling or working it up like basket-work all the
way round, which was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuit , and looked very odd; but was
an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as against al sorts of vermin; and our men
were so taken with it. that they got the wild savages to come and do the like for them; so that
when I came to see the two Englishman's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they lived
all like bees in a hive; and as for W. Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, neces-
sary, and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was never
seen. It was 120 paces round in the outside, as I measured by my ate ; the walls were as
close worked as a basket, in nels or squam, of thirty-two in iium r, and very strong,
standing about seven foot hig : in the middle was another, not above twenty-two paces
round, at built stronger, being eight were in its form, and in the eight corners stood e' ht
very strong posts, round the top of whic he laid strong pieces, pinned together with w en
pins, from which he raised a yramid for a roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure on.
and joined together very wel , though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, whic he
made himself too, out of the old iron thatI had left there; and indeed, this fellow showed
abundance of ingenuity in several thin which he had no knowl of; he made him a
in ,with a ' of wooden bellowsto low the fire; he made himse charcoal for his work,
an he form out of one of the iron crows amiddlingfiood anvil to hammer upon; in this
manner he made many things, but especially hooks, stop es and spikes, bolts and hinges. But
to return to the house; after he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up
between the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and thatched that over 'n so i ni-
ously with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree, which covered e top, the. his
housewas as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages made
the basket-work for him.

The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long
rafters lay from the two and thirty angles to the to posts of the inner house. being about twenty
feet distant; so that there was a space like a w is within the outer wicker-w l, and without
the inner, near twenty foot wide. _

The inner place be partitioned ed with the some wickcr~work, but much fairer, and divided
it into six apartments, so that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of these there
was a door; first, into the entry. or coming into the main tent; and another door into the space
or walk that was round it; so that walk was also divided into six equal parts, which served not
only for retreat, but to store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six
s not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments the outer circle had were
thus ordered: as soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage
straight before you to the door of the inner house; but on either side was a wicker rtition,
and a door in it, by which you went, first, into a large room or storehouse, twenty oot wide,
and about thirty foot long. and through that into another not (ge'te so lon : so that in the
outer circle was ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to come at rough the apart-
ments of the inner tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective chambers of
the inner circle: and four large warehouses or barns, or what you fiasco to call them, which
wentin through one another, two on either hand of the passage t lmi through the outer
door to the inner tent. _

Such a piece of basket--work, I believe, was never seen in the world nor a house or tent so
neat] contrived, much less so built: in Wt bee-hive lived the three fimilies; that is to
say. . Atkins and his companion; the . ' was killed, but his wife remained with three
children, for she was, it seems, big with child when he died; and the other two were not at all
bulrwaid to give the widow her full share of everything, I mean, as to their corn. milk, grapes,
she, and when they killed a kid or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all lived well ,
enough, though it was true they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been observed

1

One thin , however. cannot be omitted, viz. that, as for religion, I don't know that there was
anything 0 that kind among them; theybpretty often, indeed. put one another in mind, that
there was a God, by the very common in ad of seamen, viz. swearing by His name; nor were
their poor. ignorant as. wives much the befier for having been married to Christians, as we
must call them; for as t ey knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable
of enterin .into any discourse with their wives about a. God, or to talk anything to them con-
cerning re on.

The utmost of all the improvement which I can so the wires had made from them, was,
that they had taught them to speak English pretty we 1; and all the children they had, which '
was near twenty in all, were taught to r k English too, from their first learning to speak,
though they at first spoke it in every bro on manner, like their mothers. There were none of
these children above six year old when I came thither; for it was not much above sevenflyeer
thatm had fetehedthese five sav o ladies over, but they had all been pretty fruit! , for
they all children, more or less. think the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child:
an the mothers were all a'good sort of well-governed, quiet. laborious women, modest and
decent, helpful to one another, mighty observant and subject to their masters, I cannot call them
husbands; and wanted nothing butto be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to be
legally married; both which were hap ily brought about afterwards by my means, or, at least,
in consequence of my coming among em.

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty much of my five runngate
Englishmen, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family,
on in whose story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances, "hen they were among
the savages. They told me readily that they had no instances to give of their application or
ingenuity in that country; that they were a my miserable, dejected handful of poo Is; that if
means had been put into their hands. they yet so abandoned themselves to cepdr, and
so sunk under the weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving.
One of them, agave and very sensible man, told me he was convinwd they were in the wro ;
that it was not a part of wise men tasks up themselves to their mile , but always to a
hold of the helps which reason ofi'e , as well for present support as orfuture deliverance
He told me that grief was the most senseless, insignificant passion in the world; for that it
regarded only things past, which womenerally impossible to be recalled or to be remedied. but
had no view to things to come. and no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but
rather added to the ufllietionthan proposed a remedy; and upon this he repeated a_Sps.msh
proverb, which, though 1 cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own, thus :--

" In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled."

He run on then in remarks u n all the little improvements I had made in my solitude, my
unwearied application, as he it, and how I had made a condition which, in its circum-
stances, was at first much worse than. theirs, a thousand times more happy: than theirs was,
even now. when they were all together. He told me it was remarkable that nglishmen had a
greater presence of mind in their dishees than any people that ever he met with; that their
unhappy nation. and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle with the
fortunes; for that their first ate in dangers, after the common efi'orts were over, was alws
to despair, lie down under it and ' without musing their thoughts up to proper remedies

I told him their case and mine did'ered exceedingly; that they were cast upon the shore
without necessaries, without supply of flood, or of present sustenance, till they could provide;
that, it is true. I had this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the supplies
1 had rovideutiully thrown into my ands, by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was
such a elp us would have encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I had
done. " Seignior," says the Spaniard, " had we "poor Spaniards been In your case, we should
never have gotten half those things out of the ip as you did: nay," says he, " we should
never have found means to have gotten a raft to carry them. or to have gotten the raft on
shore without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done," said he. "if any of us
had been alone." Well, I desired him to abate his com liment and go on with the history of
their coming on shore where they landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a place where
there were people without provisions; whereas, had they had the common sense to have at of
to see. again. and gone to another island a little farther, the had found provisions,t ough
without )cople, there being an island that way, as they had 11 told, where there was pro-
visions, t ough no peo lo; that is to say, that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been
there, and had filled t no island with goats and hogs at several times, where they have bred in
such multitudes, and where turtle and mfowls were in such plenty, that they could have been
in no want of flesh,though they had found no bread; whereas here they were only sustmned
with a few roots and herbs, which they understood not. and which had no substance in them,
and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and who could treat them no better,
unlests they would turn cannibals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their
conn .

The? gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize the savages they were with,
and to teach them rational customs in the ordinary way of living; but in vain; and how they
retorted it upon them as unjust that they, who came there for assistance and support, should
attern t to set up for instructors of those that gave them bread: intimating, it seems, that
none ould set up for the instructors of others but those who could live without them.

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven to; how sometimes they
were many days without any food at all; the island they were upon bein inhabited by a sort
of save es that lived more indolent, and. for that reason, were less suprli with the necessaries
of life fiian they had reason to believe others were in the same part 0 the world; and yet they
fznfggi that these savages were less ravenous and voracious than those who had betxer supplies
0 .

Also, they added that they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and
goodness the governinaProvldenco of God directs the events of thin in the world, which,
the said, appeared in eir circumstances; for if. pressed by the ha ships they were under,
an the berrenness of the country where the were, they had searched after a. better place to
live in, they had then been out of the way of t e relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave me an account how the savages who theyJ wed among expected them to go
out with them into their wars; and it was true that" as ey had lire-arms with them, had
they not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they should not have been serviceable only
to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to friends and enemies; but being
without powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out
with their landlords to their wars; so when the came into the field of battle, they were in a
worse condition than the savages themselves; or they neither had bows or arrows. nor could
they use those the savages ve them; so that they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wounded with arrows, till t sy came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed, the three
halbsrts they had were of use to them; and they would often drive 9, whole little army before
them, with t osehalberts and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their mushets: but
that. for all this. they were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great d r from
their arrows, till at last they found the way to make themselves large mgets of w , which
they covered with skins of wild beasts whose names they knew not, and these covered them
from the arrows of the savages; that. notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in great
danger, and were once five of them knocked down together with the clubs of the save
which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner. that is to say. the Spaniard who I
had relieved: that at first they thought had been killed; but when afterwards they heard he
was taken ' ner, they were under the greatest ' imaginable, and would willi l have all
ventured thwpp'fiva to have rescued him. mi ng y

They told me, that when they were so knocked down, the rest of their company rsscud
them, and stood over them fighting, till the were come to themselves, all but him who they
thought had been deed; and then it? e their we with their halhert and pieces standi
close togethsrin a line, through a y of above a ouaand savages, beating down all the
came in their wa , got the victory over their enemies. but to their great sorrow. because it was
with the loss of err friend; who.thaother party finding him alive, carried off with some others,
as I gave an account in in former.

They described most ectioaatelg, how they were rised wit'l'rrioiy at the return of their
friend and companion in misery. w 0 they thought had a devo by wild beasts of the
worst kind, viz, by wild men; and, yet how more and more they were rised with the
account he gave them of this errand, and that there was a Christian in any p cs near, much
more one that was able, and had humanity enou h to contribute to their deliverance.

They described how the were astonished at e sight of the relief I sent them, end at the
ewes of loaves of read, things they had not seen since their coming to that miserable
p ; how often they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what a
arriving cprdialitwastothcirspiritstotseteit; as also, of the other things I had sent for

err sup .

And, afteyr all, they would have told me somethin of the joy they were in at the sight of a.
boat and ilots to carry them away to the person an place from whence all these new comforts
came ; bu they told me itwas impossible to express it by words, for their excessive joy, naturally
driving them to unbecoming extrevagences, they had no way to describe them. but '
me that they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to 've vent to their passion, suitable to
the sense that wee upon them; that in some it work one way, and in some another; and
that some of them, three h a surprise of joy. would burst out into tears; others be stark mad,
and others immediatel int. his discourse extremely afi'ected me, and called to ray mind
Friday's ecstasy when e met his father, and the poor people's ecstasy when I took on u
at see, after their ship was on fire; the mate of the ship a jo , when he found himself deliv
in a plea where he or to garish; and my own Joy. w on after twenty-eight yeare' cap-
tivgy, I found a good a '1) ready ca me to my own country.

h[these things made me more sensib of the relation of those poor man, and more ad'ected
wit i

Having thus 'ven a view of the state of things, as I found them, I must relate the heads of
what I did for ese peslple, and the condition in which I left them. It was their opinion, and
mine too, that they we (1 be troubled nomore with the es ; or that. if the were,they
wouldheabletocutthemofl,iPStheywesetwiceasrnan as o ;sothiy noconcern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with Spaniard, who called governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of them oh} so It would not
be just to carry ofi some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwilling!>> stay if therr
strength was diminished.

0n the other hand, I told them I came to establish them there. not to remove them; and
then I let them know that I had brought with no relief of sundry hands for them. 'l'hat I
had been at a great charge to suppl them with all things necessary. as wellOior their con-
venient>> as their defence; and that I such and each particular persons with me, as well
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular necessariinsimploymente which they
Energetmd to,beiug arfificemteaesist them in those things, rn w , at present,theywere

s .

They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before I delivered to them the
stores I had brought. I asked them, one by one if they had entirely forgotten and buried the
first animositiss that had been among them, and would shake hands with one another. and
engage in a strict friendship. and union of interest. that so there might be no more meander-
stnndings or jealousies. _ .

Will Atkins. with abundance of frankness and good-humour, said, they had met with amne-
trons enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends; that, for
his part, he would live and die with them, and was so far from design; anything against the
Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing to him but what ' own mad humour made
necessary, and what he would have done, and rhaps much worse. in their case; and that he
would ask themon, if I desired it. for the oolish and brutish things he had done to them;
and was ver ' ' gird desirous of living on terms of entire friendship and union with them,
and would 0 rapt ' g that lay in his power to convince them of it; and as for going to
En land, he on not if he did not go thither this twenty years.
he Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first, disarmsd and excluded Will Atkins and his two
countrymen, for their ill oonduct,as they had let me know. And the appealed to me, for the
necessity they were under to do so; but that Will Atkins hadbehav himself so bravely in the
great ii ht they had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had shown himself so
iii to, and concerned for the general interest of them all. that they had forgotten all that
was past, and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries
us any of them; and that they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the com-
mand to him, next to the governor himself; and as they had an entire confidence in him, and
all his countrymen, so they acknowled ed they had merited that confidence by all the methods
that honest men could merit to be va nod and trusted; and they most h il embraced the
occasionlof giving me this assurance, that they would never have any interesz separate from
one not icr.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we a pointed the next day to dine
altogether; and, indeed, we made a splendid feast. I caused e shi 's cook and his mate to
come on shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we h on shore assisted. We
brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four g'eccs of pork, out of the ship's revision,
with our punch-bowl, and materials to fill it; an in Mailer I gave them ten ttles of
French claret, and ten bottles of English beer, things that neither the Spaniards or the
Englisllimpnfhad tested for many years; and which, it may be supposed, they were exceed-
in a o .

1' ogSpaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of them
were sent covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh
meat from on shore, as we did with their salt meat from on board.

After this feast, at which we were very innocently me , I brought out my cargo of goods,
wherein, that there might be no dispute about dividing, showed them that there was sufi-
cient for them all; desrred, that they might all take an equal nantity of the goods that were
for wearing; that is to say, ual when made up. As, first, distributed linen suflicient to
make every one of them fours iris; and, at the Spaniards request, afierwards made them up
six; these were exceeding comfortable to them, having been what, as I may say, they had long
since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them.

I allotted the thin English studs, which I mentioned before, to make every one a. light coat,
like a frock. which I jud fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered that
whenever they decayed, y should make more, as they thought fit. The like for pumps, shoes,
stockings, and hats, &c. .

I cannot express what leasnre, what satisfaction, sat upon the eonntenanees of all these
poor men, when they saw 0 care I had taken of them, and how well I had furnished them;
they told me I was a father to them; and that, having such a co ndeut as I was, in so
remote a part of the world; it would make them for t that they were eft in a desolate place ;
and they all voluntarily en god to me, not to leave e place without my consent.

Then I presented to em the pee lo I had brought with me; particularly the tailor,
the smith, and the two c nters, of them most necessary people; but above all,
my general artificer, than w om they could not name anything that was more useful to
them; and the tailor," show his concern for them, went to work immediately, and with my
leave. made them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and, which was still more, he
tap-{ht the women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist' to
m e the shirts of their husbands, and for all the rest
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention howuseful they were, fortheytook in pieces all
my clumsy, unhandy things, and made them clever, convenient tables, stools, bedsteads,
on boards, lockers, shelves, and ev ' they wanted at that kind. _

Buttoletthenrseehownature uhficematfirshIcarmdthecarpenterstosee
Will Atkins's basket-house, as I called it, and they both owned they never saw an instance of
such natural ingenuity before; nor anyth' so regular, and so handily built, at least of its
kind; and one of them, when he saw it, musing a good while, turning about to me
"Inmaure," so. he, "thatmanhasnoneedofus; youneeddon ' hutgivehimtoo "

Then I broug t them out all my store of tools, and gave every man a ' spade, a shovel.
and a rake, for we had no barrows or ploughs; and, to every separate p a pick-are.
a crow, a broad are, and a saw; always appornting that as ofien as any was broken. or worn
out, they should be supplied, without . dging. out of the general stores that I left behind.

Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, e reels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron-
work. they had without tale, as they required; for no man would care to take more than they
wanted, and he must he a fool that would waste or spoil them, on any account whatever.
And for the use of the smith I left two ton of unwro ht iron for a supply.

My m ' of powder and arms which I broug t them, was such even to profusion, that
they can] not but ignites at them; for now they could mareh as I used to do, with a musket
upon each shoulder, ' there was occasion; and were able to fight 1000 savages, if they had
but some little advan of situation, which also they could not miss of, if the had occasion.

lens-riedonshorewi metheyonngmanwhosemotherwasstnrvedb d ,andthemaid
also; she was a sober, well-educated. religious youn woman, and behaved so inotl'ensively. that
every one ve her a word. She had, ind an "hm life with ns,there beingno
woman in e ship but erself ; but she bore it with patience. r awhile, seeing ' so well
ordered, and in so fine a way of thrivingnufion my island, and considering that they neither
business or acquaintance in the East ea, or reason for tah'rrhg so long a voyage, I say, con-
sidering all this. both of them came to me, and desired I we give them leave to remain on
the island, and be entered among my family, as they called it.

I agreed to it readily; and they had a little plat of ground allotted to them, where they had
three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a bashet-wch'd like Atkins's. adjoining
to his plantation; their tents were contrived so, that they each of them a room, a part to
lodge mandamiddletentJikea t store-house, to lay all theirgoodsin, andtesatand
drink in. And now the other two nglishmen removed their habitation to the same lace; and
so the island was divided into three colonies, and no more; viz. The Spaniards, with o d Friday,
andthe first servants. at my old habitation under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital
city, and where they had so and extended their works, as well under as on the outside
of the hill, that they lived, tho ectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such
alittlecityinawood,andsohi I 've,insny oftheworld. ForIverilybelieve.1000
men might have ranged the island a month, and, ' they had not known there was such a thing,
and loo ed on purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the trees steed so thick, and
so close, and grew so fast matted into one another, thatnothing but outtingthemdown first
could discover the lsoe.exoept theonly two narrow entrances where thsywentin and out,
could be found; w 'ch was not veryeasy. One of themwasjustdownstthewateredgeof
theoreek;anditwasafierwardsabove200 totheplaoe-andtheotherwasuptheladder
at twice, as I have alread formerly descri it; and they had a large wood, thick planted,
alsoonthe top of the ' which contained abowanacmwhichgrswapsoaandcoversdthe

laeetrom all diseov there, with only one narrowplecs between two treeanoteuytebe

vexed, to enter on side.

The other colon was that of W. Athins's, where there were four fismiliss of Englishmen. I
meanthossIhad oft therawiththeirwives andchildren; three savageathat were slavee,the
widow andehildrenof the Englishmanthatwas killed; the young man andthe maid; and, by
the way, we made a. wife of her also, before we went away. .There was also the two carpenters
andthetsilor,_whoIhroughtwithmeferthom; alsothe smith, whowasevsrynecessary man
tothem,especsally asagunsmith, totakecareo! theirarms; andmyothumamwheloalled

" l..bl'5ha'a L:
Jack of all trades; who was in himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a
very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow; and, before I went away, we married him to the
honest maid that came with the youth in the ship, I mentioned before.

And now I speak of marrying, it Mugs are naturally to as something of the French eccle-
siaatic that I had brought with me out of the ship's crew, w o I took up at sea. It is true,
this man was a Roman, and Perhaps, it ma Five oflence to some hereafter, if I leave anything
extraordinary upon record, 0 a man, who, are I begin, I must (to sethim out in just colours)
represent in terms very much to his disadvau . in the account of Protestants; as first, that
he was a Papist; second] , a Popish priest; an , thirdly, a French Popiah priest.

But justice demands 0 me to give him a due character; and I must say, he was a grave,
sober. pious, and most religi ufimn: exact in his life, extensive inhis charity, and exemplar
in almost everything he did. at. then. can an one say against my being very sensible of
the value of such a man, notwithstandin his ro essionP Though it may be my opinion, per-
ha 3, as well as the o inion of others, w 0 she read this, that he was mistaken.

'he first hour that began to converse with him, after he had agreed to ? with me to the East
Indies, I found reason to deli ht exceedingly in his conversation. And e firstbeganwith me
about religion, in the aim ob 'ging manner imaginable.

"Sir." says he, "you have not only, under God (and at that he crossed his breast) saved my
life, but you have admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility,
have taken me into your family, giving me an opportunity of free conversation. Now, sir," says
he, " you see by my habit what my pmfcssionis; and I guess by your nation, what ours is: I
ma think itis my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on al occasions,
to rin all the souls lean to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine;
but. as am here under your permission, and in your family, I am bound in justice to your kind-
ness, as well as in decency and good manners. to be un er your government; and therefore,
shall not, without your leave. enter into any debates on the point 0 religion, in which we may
not agree, farther than you shall give me leave."

I told him, his carriage was so modest, that I could notbutacknowledge it; that it was true,
we were such people as they call heretics; but that he was not the first Catholic that I had
conversed with, without falhng into any inconveniences, or carryi questions to any height in
debate; that he should not find himself the worse used for being 0 a difierent o inion from us;
and if we did not converse without any dislike on either side, upon that score, it should be his
fault, not ours.

He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be easily separated from ' ates;
that it was not his business to cap principles with every man he discoursed with; and at he
rather desired me to converse wit im as a. gentleman, than as a reli 'enx: that if I would
give him leave, at any time. to discourse u n religious subjects, be we d readily comply with
it; and that then he did not doubt but would allow him also to defend his own opinions, as
"he" as he could: but that, without my leave, he would not break in upon me with any such
t in .

Hi told me farther, that he would not cease to do all that became him in his allies, as a
priest, as well as a private Christian, to procure the good of the ehi . and the safety of all that
was in her; and though, rhaps, we would not ioin with him, a he could not pray with us,
he hoped he might pray or us, which he woul do a'igon all occasions. In this manner we
com-arsed; and as he was of a most obliging fienflem ike behaviour, so he was, if I may be
allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as believe, of t learning.

He gave me a. most divertikgfi account of his life, and of 0 many extraordinary events of it;
of many adventures which befallen himin the few ears that he had been abroad in the
world. and urticularly this was very remarkable, viz. t in the vo he was now on
in. he had d the misfortune tobe five times ship and unship , and never to to the

lace whither any of the ships he was in were at 'rst desi ed. t his firstinten was, to
rave gone to Martinico; and that he went on board a ship and thither at St. Males; but
being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received some damage, by running aground
in the mouth of the river Tagas, and was obliged to unload her cargo there. That finding a
Portuguese ship there. bound tothe Madeira and ready to sail, and supposin he should easily
meet with a vessel there boundto Martinico, he went on board, in order-to sa' tothe Madeiras;
but the master of the Portuguese shi , being but an indifferent mariner, had been out in his
reckoning, and the drove to Fial; w ere, however, he happened to find a very good market
for his cargo. whi was corn; and therefore resolved not to goto the Madeira. but to load salt
at the Isle of May, to go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in the exigence. but to go
withthe shi ;audhad a piettygood voyage as farastheBauhs (sothey calltheplacewhere
they catch e fish), where meeting with a French ship bound from France to Quebec. in the
river of Canada. and from thence to Martinico, to provisions, he thought he should have
an opportunity to complete his first design. But when a came to uebec, the master of the
ship died, andthe ship proceeded no farther. So the next voyeg: he s 'pped himself for France,
in the ship that was urnt. when we took them up at sea, and en 'pped with us for the East
Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had been disappointed in live voyages, all, as I may
call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have occasion to mention farther of the same person.

But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories, which have no relation to in own.
I return to what concerns our afiair in the island. He came to me one mornin , for he edged
among us all the while we were upon the island; and it happened to he just w on I was go'i-i'ig
to visit the Englishman's colony, at the farthest art of the island; I saga, he came to me,
told me, with a very grave countenance. that he . for two or three ye, desired an oppor-
tunity of some discourse with me, which, he hoped, should not be displeesing to me, because
he thought it might, in some measure, correspond with my general design, which was the
prosperity of my new colony; and, perhaps, might put it, at least more than he yet thought
it was. in the we of God's blessing.

I looked a li a surprised at the last part of his discourse; and turning a little short, " How,
sir," said I, " can it he said. that we are not in the we of God's blessing, after such visible
assistances, and wonderful deliver-slices, as we have seen are, and of which I have given you a
large account P "

" If you had pleased. sir," said he (with a world of modesty, and et with great readiness)
" to have heard me. you would have found no room to have been disp eased, much less to think
so hard of me that I should suggest. that flygu have not had wonderful assistances and deli-
verances. And, I hope, on our behalf, t you. are in the way of God's blessing, and your
design is exceeding good, an will prosper. But, sir," said be, "though it were more so, than
is even possible to on, yet there may be some amo you that are not uslly right in their
actions. And you ow, that in the story of the dren of Israel, one chan, in the cam ,
removed God's blessing from them, and turned His hand so against them, that six and thirg
of them, though not concerned in the crime, were the object of divine vengeance, and bore the
weight of that unishinent." .

I was ssnsib y touched with his discourse; and told him his inference was so Just, and the
whole design seemed sosinoere, and was really so religious in its own nature, that I was v
sorry I had interrupted him; and begged him to go on. And, in the mean fine, because it
seemed, that what we had both to say, might take up some time, I told him I was going to the
Englishmeu's plantations, and asked him to go with me. and we might discourse of it by the
way. He told me he would more willingly wait on me thither. because there, part1 , the thing
wasscted,whiohhedesiredtos bionic about. So wewalkedon,andI himtohe
free and plain with me, in what e had to say. . .

" Wh , then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give me leave to lay down a fcwroposrtions,
as the oundation of what I have to say. that we may not differ in the gen principles.
though we may be of some difi'ering opinions in the practice of particulars. First. an, though
we difier in some of the doctrinal articles of religion, and it is very unhappy that it is so,
especiallyin the case before us, as I shall show afterwards; yet there are some neral prin-
ciples in whichwebothagree; viz.First,thatthereisaGod,and that this God. unggiven
us some stated oral rules for our service and obedience, we ought notwillin ly and know-
ingly toofiend ' , either h neglect" to do what He has commanded. or by (w what_He
hasexpreasly forbidden; au let our d'ifieient religions be what they will, this gen principle

3
is readily owned E as all. That the blessing of God does not ordinarily follow a presumptuous
sinning against '3 command; and every good Christian will be afieetionately concerned to
prevent any that are under his care living in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is
not your man being Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavourhig,' if it lies before me. that they should
live In as little distance from. and enmity with their her as possible; especially if you give
me leave to meddle so flu- in your circuit. '

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I nted all he had said : and
thanked him. that he would so {or concern himself for us; and gged he would explain the
particulars of what he had observed, that like Joshua (to take his own parable). I might put
awa the accursed thing from us.

" y. then, sir," says he. " I will take the liberty on give me; and there are three things.
which, if I am right. must stand in the we. of Godshlessmg upon our endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice. for your sake, and t eir own, to see remov . And, sir," says he, " I
promise myself that you will fully as with me in them all, as soon as I name them; espe-
cially, because I shal convince you, t every one of them may, with great ease, and very much
to our satisfaction. be remedied."

e vs me no leave to put in any more civilities, but went on. " First, sir," says he,
" you are here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages, and have
taken them as their wives. and have had many children by them all, and yet are not married
to them after any stated legal manner. as the laws of God and man require; and therefore are
yet, in the sense of both. no less than adultarers, and living in adultery. To this, air," says he.
" I lrnow you will object, that there was no clo n. or priest of any kind, or of any pro-
fession, to perform the ceremony: nor any pen an ink, or per, to write down a contract of
marri . and have it signed between them. And I know , sir, what the Spaniard governor
has to] you; I mean of the ment that he obliged them to make when the took these
women, viz. That they should c ooee them out by consent, and keep separately to t em; which
by the way, is nothing of a m ' . no agreement with the women as wives, ut only an agree-
ment among themselves, to keep em from quenching.

" But. our. the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a Roman) con-
sists not only in the mutual consentof the parties to take one another as man and wife, but in
the formal and legal obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the man and woman. at
ulltimes, to own and acknowledge each other; obliging the men to abstain from all the other
women, to engage in no other contract while these subsist; and on all occasions. as ability
allows, to provide honestly for them, and their children ; and to oblige the women to the same,
or like conditions, mutalir mtaudic, on their side.

" New, sir," says he. " these men may, when they please. or when occasion presents. abandon
these women. disown their children. leave them to rish. and take other women, and marry
them while these are livin ." And here he add , with some warmth. " How. sir. is God
honoured in this unlawful h rt .9 And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this
place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in your design, while these men. who
at resent are your subjects, under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by you
to 've in open adultery P" '

I confess, I was struck at the thin itself, but much more with the convincing arguments he
supported it with; for it was certain ytrue. that though they had no cler man on the spot.
yet u formal contract on both sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed y an token, which
they had all agreed to be bound by. though it had been but breaking a stick between them.
engaging the men to own these women for their wives u'plon all occasions, and never to abandon
them or their children, and the women to the same wi their husbands. had been an eflectual
lawful murria in the sight of God; and it was a great neglect that it was not done.

But I thong t to have gotten 03 with m young priest. by telling him, that all that part was
done when I was not here; and they had 'ved so many years with them now. that if it was an
adulterv. it was past remedy; they could do nothing in it now.

" Sir?' says he. " asking your pardon for such freedom. you are right in this; that it being.n u ~ v , \

T [1' Life and Adventures of Robins-on Crusoe. 195

done in your absence, on could notbe charged with that part of the crime. But I beseech
you, flatter not you that you are not therefore under an obligation to do our nttormost
nowto utanendtoit. Howcanyouthink,butthat,letthetimepostlieonw mitwill,all
the guilt), for the future. will lie entirely upon you? Because it is certainly in your power now
wfut an end to it; and in nobody's power but yours."

was so dull still. that I did not take him right; but I magnet that. by putting an end
to it, he meant, that I should part them, and not sufier them to 've together any longer; and
I said to him, " I could not do that by any means, for that it would put the whole island into
confusion." He seemed sugprised that I should so far mistake him. " No, sir," sa he, " I
do not mean that you she d now separate them, but legally and effectually t on now.
And as, sir, my we of marrying may not be so easy to reconcile them to, thong it. will be
as effectual, even y your own laws; so your way ma be as well before God, and as valid
among men; I mean, h a written contract, signed by hath man and woman, and by all the
witnesses present; whic all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid."

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zed, besides the unusual
impartiality in his discourse, as to his own party or church, and such true warmth for the gore-
serving people that he had no knowledge of, or relation to; I say, for preserving them in
transgressing the laws of God; the like of which I had indeed not met with an here. But
recollectin what he had said of marrying them by a. written contract, which knew would
standtoo, roturnedithackmnhimmndtoldhimJgr-antedalltbathe had said tobejust.
and, on his part. very kind; t I would discourse with the men upon the point now, when I
came tothem. And I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marrythemall;
which I knew well enough would be granted to be as authentic and valid in England, as if m
wmkmpigried b one of our own clergyman. What was afterwards done in this matter, I
s 0 Melt '

I"lathen yressed him to tell me, what was the second complaint which he had to make; acknow-
lcd ' g t I was very much his debtor iorthe first; and thankedhim heartil for it. He
(01 me he would use the same freedom and plainness in the second; and hoped would take
it as well : and this was, that notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, ashe called them.
hadlired with those women for almost seven years, had taught them to- speak En lish, and
evente read it; and first they were, as he 'ved, women of tolerable underetan ' , and

- on Is of instruction; yet they had not to Eis hour taught them :Lthiug of the Christian
'on; no, not so much as to know that there was a God, or a we '1), or in what manner
was to be served; or that their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew not who, was

false and absurd. _

"This," he said, " was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly callthem
to account for; and perhaps, at last. take the work out of their hands." He spoke the very
afiectionately and warmly. "I am persuaded," says he, "had those men lived in the as.
country, whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains to have bro t
them to be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so tar as he could see,
taken with them to teach them the knowledge of the true God. Now, sir," said he. " though I
do not acknowledge our religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see the devil's servants,
and the subjects of ' kingdom, taught to lrnow the general principles of the Christian religion;
thatthey might at least hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future
state, things which we all believe; they had at leastbeen so much nearer coming into theboeom
of the true Church than they are now in the public profession of idolatry and devil-worship?

I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced him with an excess of passion.
"How far," said I to him, " have I been from nnderstandin the most seasonal part of a.
Christian, viz., to love the interest of the Christian Church, an the good of other men's souls l .
I seem have known what belongs to being a Christian." "0, sir, do not say so," replied he:
" this thin is not your fault." " No," said I, " but why did I never lay it to heart as well as
you?" '" 'is nottoolate " said he; "be nottooforwardwcondemnyourself." "But
what canhe done now P" sai I; " you see I am going awn ." "Will you give me leave," said
he, "totelkwith those poor man about it?"2"Yes, wi all my heart,' said I, "andwill

I
ob ' 9 them to give heed to what you say too." " As to that," said he, " we must leave them
to e mercy of Christ; but 'tis our business to assist them, encourage them, and instruct
them; and if you will give me leave, and God His blessing, I do not doubt but the poor
ignorant souls shall be brou ht home into the great circle of Christianit , if not into the par-
ticular faith that we all em race, and that even while you stay here." this," I said, " I
shall not only give you leave. but give you a. thousand thanks for i " followed on this
account, I shall mention also again in its place.

I now pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame. "Why, really," says he,
"'tis of the same nature, and I will proceed, asking your leave, with the same plainnesa as
before. It is about your poor savages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It
is a maxim, air, that is, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of what Church or
pretended Church soever, via, ' the Christian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible
means, and on all possible oecasions.' It is on this principle that our Church sends mis-
sionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly
e in the most hazardous voyages. and the most dan rous residence, among murderers
an barbarians, to teach them the knowledge of the true G and tobring them overto embrace
the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity here, to have six or seven and thirty
poor savages brought over from idola to the howled a of God, their Maker and Redeemer,
that I wonder how on can pass sue an occasion doing good, which is really worth the
e use of a man's w ole lite." .

was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. I had here a a irit of true
Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his particular nnciples be of what ' soever.
As for me, I had not so much as entertained a thought of 's in my heart before; and, I
believe, should not have thought of it, for I looked 3150'. these savages as slaves and people who,
had we any work for them to do, we would have n as such, or would have been d to have
transported them to any other part of the world; for our business was to get rid 0 them, and
we would all have been satisfied if the had been sent to an country, so th had never seen
their own. But. to the case: I say, was confounded at ' discourse, an knew not what
answer to make him. He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder. " Sir," says he,
" I shall be very sor if what I have and gives on any ofi'ence." "No, no," says I, " I am
ofiended with nobody at myself; but I am perfec y confounded, not only tothink that I should
never take any notice of this before, but with reflecting what notice I am able to take of it
now. You know, sir," said I, " what circumstances I am in. I are bound to the East Indies
in a ship freighted b merchants, and to whom it would be an insufl'erable piece of injustice
to detain their ship ere, the men lying all this while at victuals and wages upon the owner's
account. It is true, I agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if I stay more I must pa
31. sterling per diem demurrage; nor can I eta upon demurrage above eig t days more, andI
have been here thirteen days already, so that am perfectly unable to engage in this work,
unless I would sufier myself to be lclt behind here again, in which case, if this single ship
should misearry in any part of her voyage. I should be just in the same condition that I was
left in here at rst, and from which I have been so wonderfully delivered."

He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my vo age, but laid it home upon my cou-
science whether the blessing of saving seven and thirty son s was not worth my venturing all I
had in the world for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. I returned upon him thus:
" Why, sir, it is a valuable thing indeed to be an instrument in God's hand to convert seven and
thirty heethens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to
the work, so that it seems naturally to fall into the way of your profession, how is it that you
do not rather otter yourself to undertake it than press me to it ?'

Upon this he faced about, 'ust before me, as he walked along, and, puttin ms to a full stop,
made me a ve low bow. " most heartily thank God, and you, sir,' says e, "for giving me
so evident a to so blessed a work; and if you think ourself discharged from it. and desire
me to undertake it. I will most readily _do it, and the it a happy reward for all the hazards
and dificulh'es of such a broken, disappomted voyage as I have met with, that I may be dropped
at last into so glorious a work."
Idiscovered a kind of rapgrre in his face while he spoke this to me; his eyes sparkled like
fire, his face lowed, and ' colour came and went, as if he had been falli into fits: in a
word, he was red with the joy of being embarked in such a work. I pa a considerable
while before I could tell what to say to him, for I was real] surprised to find a man of such
sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the urinary rate of men, not of his roo
iession only, but even of any profession whatsoever; but, after had considered it a w ' e, I
asked him seriously if he was in earnest. and that he would venture, on the single consideration
of an attempt on those poor people, to be locked up in an implanted island for perhaps his life,
and atlnstmight not know whether he should be able to do them any good or not.

He turned short a 11 me and asked me what I called a venture? " Pray, sir," said he,
"what do you think consented to go in your shi to the East Indies for P " " Na ," said I,
" that I know not, unless it was to preach to the In 'aus." " Doubtless it was." said e. " And
do you think, if I can convert these seven-and-thirty men to the faith of Christ, it is not worth
my time, though I should never be fetched 03 the island again 9 Nay, is it not infinitely of
more worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the lives of twent more of the same
profession P Yes, sir," says he, " I would give Christ and the Blessed irgin thanks all my

eye if I could be made the least happy instrument of saving the souls of these poor men,
though I was never to set my foot ofl' of this island, or see my native country an more. But
since on will honour me," says he, " with utting me into this work (for which will ray for
you the days of my life), I have one hum ls petition to you," said he, "besides." " t is
that ? " said I. " Why," says he, " it is that you will leave your man Friday with me, to be my
interpreter to them, and to assist me; for, without some help, I cannot speak to them or they
to me."

I was sensibl troubled at his requesting Friday, because I could not think of parting with
him, and that or many reasons; he had been the companion of min-unis; he was not only
faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree; and I ad resolved to do some-
thing considerable for him if he out-lived me, as it was probable he would; then I knew that as
I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him to bring him to embrace
another profession, and he would never, while his eyes were 'open, believe his old master was a.
herefic and would be damned; and this might in the end min 9 poor fellow's principles, and so
turn him to his first idolatry.

However, a. sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could
not say that I was willing to part with Friday on any account whatever, though a. work, that
to him was of more value than his life, on ht to he to me of much more value than the keeping
or parting with a servant. But, on the or hand, I was persuaded that Friday would b no
means consent to with me, and I could not force him to it without his consent, wi out
manifest injustice, use I had promised I would never put him away, and he had promised
and engaged to me that he would never leave me unless I put him swag

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational access these poor people, see
ing he did not understand one word of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove this
difficulty, I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he also understood,
and he should serve him for aninterpreter; so he was much better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to convert them, but Providence gave another
and very happy turn to all this. _ _

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we came to the Englishmen, I sent
for them altogether, and after some account given them of what I had done fpr them, us. what
necessary thin I had provided for them, and how they were distributed, which they were ve
sensibleofau verythankfulfor: Ibe totclkto t emofthe scandalous hfetheyledmn
gave them a full account of the notice 0 cle an had already taken of it; and, arguing how
tin-Christian and ineligious a life it was; first asked them if they were married men or
bachelors P They soon explained their condition to me, and showed me that two at them were
widowers and the other three were single men or bachelors. I asked them with what can-
sciences theyaeould take these women and lie with them as they had done, call them their
wives, and vs so many children hythem, and not'oe married lawfullytothemP
The all gave me the answer that I expected, viz. that there was nobody to marry them;
that ey agreed before the governor to k them as their wives. and to keep them, and own
them, as their wives; and they thought as ' fi: stood with them they were as legally married
as if they had been married by a person and wit all the formalities in the world.

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, and were bound in con-
science to keep them as their wrves; but that the laws of men being otherwise, they m' ht
pretend the were not married, and so desert the poor women and children hereafiaer; and t
their wives, ing poor desolate women, friendless and moneyless, would have no way to hols
themselves. I, therefore, told them that unless I was assured of their honest intent I coal
do nothing for them, but would take care that what I did should be for the women and their
children without them ; and that unless they would give some assurances that they would marry
the women, I could not think it was convenient they should continue together as man and wife;
for that it was both scandalous to men and offensive to God, who they could not think would
bless them if they went on thus.

All this went on as I expected; and they told me, as 'ally Will Atkins, who seemed now
to speak for the rest, that they loved their wives as weli as if the had been born in their own
native country, and would not leave them a n any account whatever, and the did verilcy
believe their wives were as virtuous and as mafegt, an did, to the utmost of their ill, as mu
for them and for their children as an women could possibly do, and they would not pm with
them on any account. And Will Atens, for his own particular, added, if an man would take
him away and offer to carry him home to England and make him ca tain a! the best man-of-
wariu the navy, he would not go with him,ifhe mi ht not carry his wi e and children with him;
and if there was a clergyman in the ship, he would married to her now with all his heart.

This was just as I would have it; the riestwas notwith me at that moment. but wasnot far
of. So, to try him farther, I told him had a ele with me, and, if he was sincere, I
would have him married the next morning; and bid ' consider of it, and talk with the rest.
He said, as for himself, he need not consider of it at all; for he was very may to do it, and
was lad I had a minister with me; and he believed they would be all willing also. I then

him that my friend, the minister, was a. Frenchman and could not English, but that
I would act the clerk between them. He never so much as asked me w ether he was a Papiat
or Protestant, which was indeed what I was afraid of. But, I say, they never inquired about
it. So we parted. I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his
companions. I desired the French gent enmn not to say anything to them till the business was
thoroughly ripe, and I told him what answer the men had given me.

Before went from their quarter, the all came to me and told me they had been considering
what I had said; that they were very g d to hear I had a clergyman in my company, and the
were very willing to give me the anti faction I desired, and to be formally married as soon as
pleased, for they were far from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant nothing

at what was very honest when they chose them; so I appoin them to meet me the next
morning, and that, in the meantime, they should let their wives know the meaning of the mar-
riage law, and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that they
should not forsake them whatever might happen.

The women were easil made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and were very well satis-
fied with it, as, indeed, ey had reason to be; so they failed not to attend all together, at my
apartment, the next morning. where I brought out my cle man; and, though he had not on
a minister's gown, after the manner of England, or the ha it of a priest, after the manner of
France, yet having a black vest, something like a cassoek, with a sash round it, he did not
look v unlike a minister; and as for his anguuge, I was his interpreter.

But t e seriousness of his behaviour to them and the samples he made of marrying the
women, because they were not baptized and professed Christians, gave them an exceeding
reverence for his person, and there was no need after that to inquire whether he was a clergy-
man or no.

Indeed I was afraid his scrnple would have been carried so far as that he would not have
marriedthem atall; nay, notwithstandingallIwas abletosaytohim,heresistedme,though
modestly at very steadily; and at last refused absolutelgto marry them unless he had first
talked with the men and the women too; and though at rat I wee a little backward to it, yet
at last I agreed to it with a will. perceiving the sincerity of his design.

When he came to them, 9 let them larow that I had acquainted him with their circum-
stance: and with the resent design; thathewaa very willing to rform that part of his
functions and marry em as I had dedred; but that before he coul do it he must take the
liberty to talk with them; he told them that in the sight of all indifi'ereut men and in the
sense of the laws of society they had lived all this while in open adultery, and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry or effectually separating them from one another now
could put an end toit; buttherewas adifioulty in itfoo withrespeettothelaws of Christian
matrimony which he was not fully satisfied about, viz. that of ' one that is a pro-
fessed Christian to a sa , an idolafer,and a. heathen, one that is no he tized; and yet
fiat he did not gore that" we: gme leithfor iii," mmgagh p% e womezf'toub;

phzed,' or to p ese name 0 hrret,' w on ey nbted, nethrng'
without which they could not be baptized.

He told them be doubted "1%ng but indifferent Christians themselves ; that theyhed but
little knowledge of God orof ' ways, and therefore he could not expect that they had said
much to their wives on that head yet; but that unless they would promise him to use their
endeavour with their wives to persuade them to become Christians and would as well as they
could instruct them in the know] and belief of God that made them, and to worship Jesus
Christ that redeemed them, he co not marry them; for he would have no head in oining
Christianswith savages; norwasit consistent with the principlesof the Christian ' ' n;
and was, indeed, e resely forbidden in God's law.

They heard anthrs very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully to them, from his
month." near his own words as I could, only sometimes adding something of myowmto
convince them how just it was, and how I was of his mind. And I always very faithfully
distinguished between what I said from myself and what were the olergyman's words. They
told me it was very true what the entleman had said, that they were but very indifierent
Christians themselves, and that the had never talked to their wives about religion. " Lord,
sir," says Will Atkins, " how shoul we teach them religion P Why, we know nothing ourselves,
and besides, sir." said he, "should we go to talk to them of God and Jesus Christ and heaven
and hell, it would be to make them laugh at us and ask us what we believe ourselves P And
ifweshouldtell them we believe all the thirefis that we speak of to them,sueh as ofgood

people goingtoheaven and wiskedfeople to e devil, they wouldask us whereweintendto
go ourselves that believe all this an are such wicked fellows, as we indeed are. Why, air, it is
enough togive them a surfeit of ' 'on at firsthearin : folks must have some ' 'on them-
selves before they pretendtoieach 0 er ls." "W Atkins," said I to him, 'though_I
am afraid whatyon eayhae toomuohtrn inityetcangounottellyourwifethatshersm
the wrong? that therers a. Godnnd areligiou better than er own; that her ereidols;
thattheycanneitharhearnorspeak;thatthereisagreetBeingthatmadeall ' ,endthat
eeudestroyellthnt He had made; thntHerewerdathegood, andpunrshesthebdnndthat
we are tabs judged by Him atlast for allwe do here; you are not so orant, buteven nature

i'tiselfwiil'geaehyouthatallthieistrne; andIamsatisfiedyouknowit tobetrue,andbelieve '-
r ourse .' '
'y'Thatis true, sir," said Atkins; "but with what fnoecenIsay anyflringtomywifeofell '

this, when she will tell me immediately, it cannot be true?" - _

" Not true," said I,--"Whet do ou mean by that?" "Why, sir," said he, "she will tell me
itmnnotbehuatbat this God (Ishalltellhero eanbe ustoroanpunrshormerdmmoe
Iam not punished, and senttothedevil, that have n sue a wicked creature as sheknows
Ihuve been,eventoher andtoeverybody else; andthatI shouldbe eufieredtolive, thathsve
goon always acting so contraryto whatImust tell heriegood,nndtowhatIoughttohave

one." -

"Why, truly, Atkins," saidI, "I am afraid thou spmkesttoomuoh truth" andwiththatI
lettheclergymauknowwhatdtfinehsdsaid; forheweeimpahenttoknow. "01"seidtho

i". _\

'j

 

.. "ink..."
priest, "tell him there is one thing will make him the best minister in the world to his wife,
and that is re ntance: for none teach repentance like true penitents. He want: nothing but
to repent, an then he will be so much the better nalifisd to instruct his wife; he will be then
able to tell her, that there is not only a God, and t at He is the just rcwarder of good and evil;
but that He is a merciful Being, and, with infinite goodness and long-snfiering, forbears to
punish those that offend; waiting to be ions. and willing not the death of a sinner, but
rather that he should return and live: t t oftentimes suii'ers wicked men to go on for along
time, and even reserves damnation to the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evidence
of God, and of a future state. that righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their
Ennishment, till they come into another world: and this will lead him to teach his wife the

oetrine oi the resurrection. and of the last judgment; let him but repent for himself, he will
be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."

I repeated all this to Atkins. who looked very serious all the while, and who, we could easily
perceive, was more than ordinarily afiected with it; when being eager and hardly sufl'cring me
to make an end--" I know all this, master." as. s he, "and a great deal more; but I have not
the impudencc to talk thus to my wife; when , and my own conscience knows, and my wife
will be an undeniable evidence against me. that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God,
or future state, or anything about it; and to talk of my repeating. ales! (and with that he
fetched a deep sigh: and I could see that tears stood in his eyes) it is t all that with
me." "Post it! Atkins." said I, "What dost thou mean by that?" "I ow well enough
what I mean," says he; " I mean 'tis too late; and that is too true."

I told my clergyman word for word what he said; the poor zealous priest (I must call him
so. for be his opinion what it will. he had certainly a most singular affection for the good of
other men's souls; and it would be hard to think he had not the like for his own; I say, this
zealous, afiectionate man) could not refrain tears also. But recovering himself, he said to me,
"Ask him but one question. Is he easy that it is too late, or is be troubled, and wishes it were
not so?" I put the question fairly to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal of passion.
"How could any man be easy in a condition that certainly must end in eternal destruction?
That he was far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed it would one time or
the other ruin him."

"What do you mean by that? " said I. " Why," he said, " he believed he should one day or
other out his throat, to put an end to the terror of it."

The clergyman shook his head, with a t concern in his face when I told him all this;
but, taming quick to me upon it, says he, " that be his case, you may assure him it is nottoo
late; Christ will five him repentance." "But ray," says he, "explain this to him, that as no
man is saved but y Christ, and the merit of passion procurin Divine mercy for him, how
can it be too late for any man to receive mercy? Does he think e is able to sin beyond the
power or reach of Divine mercy? Pray tell him, there may be a time when provoked mercy
will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to beer; but that it is never too late'tor men
to ask mercy; and we that are Christ's servants are commanded to preach mercy at all times.
in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis never t4}: late to

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it seemed as if he turned
oif the discourse to the rest; for he said to me, he would go and have some talk with his wife;
so he went out awhile, and we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant.
as to matters of religion; much as I was when I went rambling away from my father; and yet
that there were none of them backward to hear what had been said; and all of them seriousl
promised. that they would talk with their wives about it, and do their endeavour to persu 0
them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me, when I re rted what answer they gave, but said nothing a

while; but at last, shaking his head, " e that are Christ's servants," says he, " can go no
arther than to exhort and instruct; and when men com 1y, submit to the reproof, and promise
what we ask. 'tie all we can do; we are bound to accept t eir good words; but, believe me, sir,"
snidhe, "whatever you may know of the life of that man you call Will Atkins,I believehe is
the only sincere convert among them: I take that man to be a true penitent; I will not despair
of the rest; but that man is apparently struck with the sense of his past life; and I doubt not,
but when he comes to talk religion to his wife, he will talk himself efl'ectuall into it; for
attempting to teach others is' sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. lyknsw a man,
who having nothing but a summary notion of religion himself, and being wicked and profiignto
to the last degree in his life, made a thorough reformation in himself. by labouring to convert
ii Jew: if that r Atkins be his but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life
for it, he talks imself into a t orough convert, makes himself apeniteut; and who knows what
may follow? "

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising as above, to endeavour to persuade their
wives to embrace Christianity. he married the other three couple ; but Will Atkins and his
wife were not yet come in. After this. my clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to know
where Atkins was (gone: and, turning to me, says he, " I entrant you, sir, let us walk out of our
labyrinth here, an look; I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or other, tal iug
seriously to his wife, and teachin her already something of reli ion." I began to be of the
same mind; so we went out toget er; and I carried him a way which none knew but myself,
and where the trees were so thick set, as that it was not easy to see throu h the thicket of
leaves, and far harder to see in, than to see out; when coming to the edge e the wood, I saw
Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade ot a bush, very caner in discourse.
I stopped short, till m clergyman some n to me; and then, having shown ' where they
were, we stood and loo 'ed very steadily at t em a good while.

We observed him ver earnest with her, pointing "E to the sun and to every quarter of the
heavens; then down to t it: earth, then out to the sea, t on to himself, then to her, to the woods,
to the trees. " Now," says my clergyman, " you see my words are made good; the man
reaches to her; mark him; now he is telling her that our God has made him, and her, and the

eavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, 63c." " I believe he is," said I. Immediately
we rceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his
lian ; we suppose he said something, but we could. not hear him : it was too far for that: he
did not continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and talks
to her again. \Ve perceived then the woman very attentive; but whether she said anything or
no, we could not tell. While the poor fellow was u on his knees, I could see the tears ruii
plentifnlly down my elergyman's cheeks : and I can d hardly forbear myself; but it was a
{threat adhetion to us both, that we were not near enough to hear anything that passed between

em.

Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing them: so we resolved to see
an end of this piece of still conversation; and it spoke loud enou h to us, without the help of
voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talk again earnestly to her; and
two or three times we could see him embrace her most passionately ; another time we saw him
take out his handkerchief and wi her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of transport
ver unusual; and after several 0 these things, we saw him on a sudden am: up again, and
loud her his hand to help her up; when immediately lending her by the an a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul, St. Paul! beholdho
prsycth ! "--I was afraid Atkins would hear him; therefore I entreated him to withhold him-
self awhile, that we might see an end of the scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most
afi'ecting, and et the most ble, that over I saw in my life. Well. he strove with himself,
and contained 'mself for aw ils, but was in such ruptures of joy to think that the poor heathen
woman was become a Christian, that he was not able to contain himself, he wept several times:
then throwing up his hands, and crossing his breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and
by way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimon of the success of our endeavours;
some he spol' sofily, and I could not well hear; others audibly; some in Latin. some in French;
then two or three times the tears of joy would interrupt him, that he could not 8 at all.
But I begged that he would compose himself, and let us more narrowly and fully o rve what
was before us, which he did for atime, and the scene was not ended there yet; for after the

_\.k_ . .
poor man and his wife were risen a in from their knees, we observed he stood talking still
eagerly to her; and we observed by nor motion that she was greatly affected with what he said,
by her frequent lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures,
as usually express the greatest seriousness and attention. This continued about half a Quarter
oftantlirour, and then they walked away too; so that we could see no more of them in that
at us on.

I took this interval to talk to my clergyman: and first I told him. I was glad to see the par-
ticulars we had both been witnesses to; that though I was hard enough of belief in such cases.
yet that I began to think it was all very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however
Ignorant they might both be; and I hoped such a beginning would have a yet more happy end:
and " who knows," said I, " but these two may in time, by instruction and example, work upon
some of the other P" "Some of them!" said he, turnin quick u a me, "ay, upon all of them:
depend u n it, if those two savages Sfor he has been at little tter, as you relate it), should
embrace esus Christ, they will never save till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is
natural] communicative; and he that is once made a Christian will never leave a n behind
him, if e can help it." I owned it was a most Christian principle to think so, an a testimony
of a true zeal, as well as a enerous heart in him. "But. my friend," said I, "will you give me
leave to start one ditfienlty ere i' I cannot tell how to object the least thing against that afi'ec-
tionate concern which you show for the turning the poor people from their paganism to the
Christian religion: but how does this comfort you, while these people are, in your account, out
of the pale of the Catholic church, without which you believe there is no salvation; so that you
esteemP these but heretics; and, for other reasons, as efiectually lost as the pagans them-
as ves "

To this he answered with abundance of candour and Christian charity, thus. " Sir, I am a
Catholic of the Roman Church, and a priest of the order of St. Benedict. and I embrace all the
principles of the Itomau faith. But. yet, if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in com-
pliment to you, or in respect to my circumstances, and your civilities; I so. , nevertheless, I do
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, without some charity. I are not say, though
I know it Is our opinion in general; I say, I dare not say that you cannot be saved; I will by
no means limit the mercy of Christ, so far as to think that He cannot receive you into the bosom
of His Church, in a manner, to us uuperceirable, and which it is impossible for us to know;
and I hope you have the same charity for us. I pray daily for your being all restored to Christ's
church, by whatsoever methods He, who is all wise, is leased to direct. In the mean time, sure,
you will allow it to consist with me. as a Roman, to ' 'n ish far between a Protestant and
a pagan : between one that calls on Jesus Christ, thong in a way which I do not think is
according to the true faith, and a savage, a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no
Redeemer. And if on are not within the e of the Catholic church. we hope you are
nearer being resto to it, than those that now nothing of God, or His church. And I
rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man, who, you say, has been a pmfligate. and almost a
murderor, kneel down and ray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though not fully
enlightened; believing that od. from whom every such work Emceeds, will sensibly touch his
heart, and bring him to the farther knowledge of the truth in is own time : and if God'shall
influence this poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage his wife, I can never believe
that he shall be cast away himseli ; and have I not reason then to rejoice, the nearer any are
brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they may not be brought quite home into the bosom
of the Catholic Church, just at the time when I ma desire it; leaving it to the goodness of
Christ to perfect His work in His own time_and in own way P Certainly I would rejoice,
if all the sa es in America were brought, like this poor woman, to pray to God, though they
were to be h'llgProtestants at first, rather than they should continue pagans and heuthens;
firmly believing, that He that had bestowed the first light to them, would further illuminate
tiger'plsvith abeam of His heavenly grace, and hung them into the pale of His Church, when He
s 0 see good."

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly pious Papist, as much as I was
oppressed by the power of his reasoning; and rt presently occurred to my thoughts, that if such
a temper was universal," might be all Catholic Christians, whatever Church or afiartioular
profession we joined to, or joined in; that a spirit of charity would soon work as up ' to
right figndpl"; and. in a word, as he thought that the like charity would make us all
Catho . so I told him, I believed, had all the members of his Church the like moderation,
the would soon be all Protatants. And there we left that part. for we never disputed at all.

owever, I talked to him another way; and. taking him y the hand, " My insnd." says I,
"I wrah all the el of the Roman church were blessed with such moderation, and had an
equal share of your e arity. I am entirely oidvlour opinion; but I must tell you, that if you
should preach such doctrine in Spdn or Italy, ey would put you into the Inquisition."

" It may be so," said he; "I know not what they might do in Spain or Italy; but I will not
a thethplgld$ the better Ohnshans' ' for that severrty' : for I am sure there is no heresy in

muc o n . '

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife was gone. our business there was over; so we went back
our own way; and when we came back, we found them wai ' to be calbd in. 0 '
this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that we seen him under the has
or no; and itwashia opinion we should not; but that we should talk to him first, and hear
what he would say to us: so we called him in alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves;
and I began with him thus :-- '

" Will Atkins," said I, " prithee what education had you 9 What was your father 1' "

W: A. "A. better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my father was a clergyman."

B. 0. " What education did he 've you F" '

W2 A. "He would have tough me well, air; but I despised all education, instruction, or
correction. like a beast as I was. '

R. C'. " It's true, Solomon says, 'he that despises roof is brutiah.' "

'W. A. "Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed; I murde my father: for God's sake, sir, talk no
more about that, air; I murdered my poor father."

[H- 'th'm13mnrttiehnl'lnI terpreted rd h k t) dl Red 1 It

ere srieststa (or in everywo as e ei nu oo pee.
seems he behaved that Will had really killed his own father-J 9P0

B. C'. " No, no, sir,_I do not understand him so. Will Atkins, explain yourself; you did not
killnyonr father, did you, with your own hands?"

. A. "No, sir, did not out his threat; but I cut the thread of all his comforts. and
shortened his days; Ihroke his heart b the most ungrateful, unnatural return, for the most
tender, afiectionate treatment that ever thor gave, or child could receive."

.2. 0. " Well, I did not ask you about your father, to extort this confession: I in God

've you repentance for it, and orgive you that, and all your other sins: but I as you,
use I see that though you have not much leaning. yet you are not so <<ignorant as some
are. in thir'igs that are good; that you have known more of religion a great than you have

"W. 4. "Thou h on, air, did not extort the confession that I make about my father, con.
science does; an w enever we come to look back upon our lives, the sins against our indulgent
parents are certainly the first that touchus; the wounds they make lie deepest; and the weight
the; leave will lie heaviest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit." _

. 0. "You talk too feeling] and sensibly forms. Atkins; I cannotbeant."

W2 A. " You bear it, master I dare say you how nothing of it." . . . _

B. 6'. " Yes, Atkins; every shore. every hill. nay. I ma say, every tree in this island, is
witness to the an ' of my soul. for my ingratitude and usage of a good tender father -
a. father much ' yours, by your description; and I murdered my tether as well as you, Will
Atkins; but I think. for all that, my re ntaucs is short of yours too, by a. t deal. ' .

[I would have said more, if I could ve remained in passions; but thought this poor
man's repentance was so much sincerer than mine, that was ing'to leave ofi the discourse,
and retire, forI was surprised with what he said; andthought t instead of my going about
to_teaeh and instruct him,the man was made a teacherand instructortomainamostsur-
prising and unexpected manner.]
I laid all this before the youn clergman, who was tly afi'eeted with it, and said to me,
"Did I not say, sir, that when is man was converted, e would preach to us all? I tell you,
sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make Chris-
tian: xiii" in the islan " But having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with

i t in.

" But Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this matter to touch you just now ?"

W A. " Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart through my very soul; I
have been talking about God and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a
Fhristian of her; and she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I

xve." -

R. C. " No, no; it is not your wife has preached to you : but when you were moving religious

ments to her, conscience has flung them back upon you."
V. A. "Ay, sir. with such a force as is not to be resistor ."

B. C. " Pray. Will, let us know what passed between you and your wife; for I know some-
thin of it already."

"5. A. " Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it: I am too full to hold it, and yet
have no tongue to ex ress: but let her have said what she will, and though I cannot give you
an account of it, this can tell you of it, that I resolve to amend and reform my life."

12. 0. "But tell us some of it. How dide'you begin, Will? For this has been an extraordi-
narynoase. that is certain; she has preach a semen, indeed, if she has wrought this upon

on.
y W .4. "Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage, and what the reasons
were that men and women were obliged to enter into such compacts. as it was neither in the
power of one or other to break; that otherwise, order and justice could not be maintained, and
men would run from their wives, and abandon their children, rnix confusedly with one another,
and neither families he kept entire, or inheritances be settled by l descent."

R. C. " You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her- un erstnnd what you meant by
inheritance and families ? They know no such thing among the savages, but mar any how,
without rd to relation, consanguinity, or family; brother and sister, nay. as have been
told. even e father and daughter, and son and the mother."

17'. .4. "I believe, sir, you are misinformed ;---and my wife assures me of the contrary, and
that they abhor it. Perhaps, for any farther relations, they may not be so exact as we are;
but she tells me they never touch one another in the near relations you speak of."

R. C'. " Well, what did she say to what you told her P"

'W. A. " She said she liked it very well; and it was much better than in her country."

1?. 0. " But did you not tell her what marriage was?"

W2 A. " A , ay, there Wu all our dialogue. I asked her, if she would be married to me
our way P S e asked me, hat wn that was. I told her marriage was ap intcd by God;
and here we had a strange fall: er indeed, as ever man and wife had, I be ieve."

[H.B. This dialogue between . Atkins and his wife, as I took it down in writing just after
he told it me, was as follows 2--]

W. " pointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your country?"

. A. " es, my dear, God is in every country."

'Wi e. " No you God in my country; my count have the great old Benamuckee God."

1 . A. "Child, I amvery unfit to show you w to Godis; God is in heaven. and made the
heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is."

Wife. " No makee de earth; no you God make all earth; no make my country."

['3]. A. laughed a little at her expression of God not making her country]
Rife. " No laugh. Why laugh me ? This no thing to laugh."
[fire was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious than he at first]

. A. " That is true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear."

171' 2. "Why you say, you God make all?"

. A. " Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and I, and all things; for He is
the only true God; there is no God but Him; He lives for ever in heaven."
We. " y you no tell me long 0 P"
. A. " That is true indeed; but have been a wicked match, and have not only forgotten
to giguaint thee with anything before, but have lived without God in the world in self."

a. "What. have you do God in your country. you no know Him? 0 say ' 0 ' to
Him No do good thing for ' P That no possible !"

m A. " It is too true; though, forall that, we live as if there was no God in heaven, or that
He had no war on out ."

W' e. " ut wh Godletyou do so? Why He nomakeeyou goodlivs?"

W14. "fit is our own eault." it h h h mak kill

V's. " at on so me, e is grea muc rest, ave mus t power; can so '
wgegHewiPllzywhylienomakee killwhenyorsino serveHimP fiuy'o'toHimP No he
g mans "

17. A. "Thatis true; He might strike me dead, and I oughttoerpect it; for I have been a
wicked match, that is true; but God is merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve."

W? a. " But, then, do not you tell God tankee for that too ? "

. A. "No, indeed; I have not thanked God for His mercy any more than I have feared
God for His power." -

Wife. " Then you God no God; me no think, believe He be such one, great much power,
strong : no makes kill on, though you makes Him much angry P "

m A. " What! ' my wicked life hinder m from behaving in God? What a dreadful
creature am I! And what a sad truth is it, the horrid lives of Christians hinders the
oonversions of heathensl "

Wife. " How me tink you have great much God u there (she points a to heaven), and yet
no do well, no do good thing? Gan He tell? Sure e no tell what you 0?"

W: A. "Yes, ee,Hsknows and sees allthings; Hehearsus speak, sees what we do, knows
what we think, t ough we do not speak."

W' o. " What! He no hear you swear, curse, speak the great damn?"

. A. " Yes, yes, He hears it all."

We. " Where he then the muches power strong P" .

. A. "He is merciful; that is we can say for it; and thisprovos Himtobethe true
God; He is God, and not man ; and therefore we are not consumed."

[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror to think how he could tell his wife so
clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows the secret th hte of the heart, and all that we
do, and yet that he had dared to do all the vile things he done]

"'1' e. " Merciful 1 what you call that?"

. A. " He is our Father and Maker, and He pities and spares us."

Witt. "So then He never makes kill, never angry when you do wicked; then He no good
Himself, or no great able."

W. A. "Yes, yes, my dear; He is infinitely good and infinite) great, and able to punishtoo;
and. sometimes, to show His justice and vengeance, He lets fly is anger to destroy sinners and
make em les.' Many are cut 03' in their mus."

Wifi. " at no make kill on yet; then He fell PS0: maybe, that He no make on kill, so
vou make do bargain with ' , you do bad thing, no be angry at you, when a be angry
at other mans P "

W. A. " No, indeed; my sins are all mptions upon His goodness, and He would be
infinitely just if He destroyed me, as He (lone other men."

'W~ . " Well, and yet no kill, no makes you dead? What you say to Him for that? You
no te Himtankee for all thattoo!"

W. A. " I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true."

fife. " Why He no makes you much better P You say He makes you."

_ . A. "He madame asHemadeall eworld. It is I have deformed myselfiandabused
His ess, and made myself an abominable notch."

. g/'g."IwishyoumakssGodknowme; InomakeeHimangry; Inodohadwicked

:
Here WillAtkins said his heart sunk within him to hear a pooruntaught creature desire
to tag" to know God, and he such a wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her
about but what the reproach of his own carriage would make most irrational to her to
believe; nay, that already she had told him that she could not believe in God because he that
was so wicked was not destroyed]

W. A. "My dear, you new you wish I could teach on to know God, not God to know you;
for He knows you slread , and every thought in your cart."

Wife. " Why then He ow what I say to you now; He know me wish to know Him; how
shall me know who makes me P"

11'. A. " Poor creature; He must teach thee ; I cannot tench thee; I'll pray to Him to teach
thee to know Him, and to for 've me that I am unworthy to teach thee."

[The poor fellow was in one an any at her desiring him to make her know God, and her
wishing to know Him, that he said a fell down on his knees before her, mdpmyod to God to
enlighten her mind with the saving knowled of Jesus Christ. and to pa on his sins, and
accept of his being the unworthy instrument 0 instructing her in the pnnciples of religion;
alter- which he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on.]

NB. This was the time when we saw him kneel down and hold up his hands.

Wife. " What you at down the knee for? What you hold up the hand for? What you
Who you spesftol' What is all that?"

so P
*7. A. " My dear. I bow my knees in token of my submission to Him that made me: I said
' 0 ' to Him, as you call it, and as you say your old men do to their idol Benamnckee; that is,
I prayed to Him."
W12"V1Vhaty:&itza 'O'toHim for?" d derstandrn th t kn
. ."prsy 'toononrcesnn ourun 'g, ayoumay ow
Him.andbeaccetedb Him."pe y y y
Wi e. "Gan e do ttm?"
. A. "Yes, He can; He can do all things."

'Wlfe. " But now He hear what you so P
W. A. "Yes,.He has hid us pray to Him; and promised to hear us.

17%.." Bid you pray? When He bid you? How He bid you? What! you hear Him

W. A. "No, we do not hear Him '; but He has revealed Himssli many ways to us."

[Here he was at a at loss to me e her understand that God has revealed Himself to us by
His word; and what is word was: but at last he told it her thus :--]

W. A. " God has 30"" to some good men in former days, even from heaven, by plain words;
mkgod has inspir good men, by His Spirit; and they have written all His laws down in a

Wife. "Me no understand that; where is book P "

W. A. "Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope I shall, one time or other,
get it for you, and he] you to read it."
13Elicia he embraced er with great aflection; but with inexpreesihle grief, that he had not a.

r e.

Wi . " But how you makes me know, that God teaches them to write that book ? "

. A. " the same rule that we know Him to be God."

17? e. " W at rule; what way you know." _

. A. "Because He teaches and commands nothing but what is good, righteous, and holy;
and tends to make us rfectly good, as well as perfectly happy;_and'because He forbids and
commands us to avoid that is wicked, that is evil in inelf, or evrl in its as uence."

Wife. "That me would understand, that me fain see; if He teaches all good ' g, forbid all
wicked this]? He reward all thing, nnish all wicked thing, He makes all thing, He give
all thing; e hear me when say '0' toglim, as you go do just now; He makes me good, ifI
wishbe good; He spare me, no makes kill me, when I no he ; all this you as He do; yet
Hebegleeggod;metake,think,believefiimbegreat ;me say'O'to ' too,with
you, my .
Herethepoormancouldforhearno longer; hutruisingherup, mule herkneelby him; and

heprnyed to Godaloud,toinstruethermtheknowledge of Ermaelf,by His Spirit; audthaf

some providence, if 'hle, she might some time or other come to have a Bible, that
emightreadthe Wordof and betaughtb ittoknow Him. -

Thiswas the time thatwesawhrmlifthernp y thehududsawhimheeldownbyher
as above.

The had several other discourses,it seems,aiterthis,fno long tosetdownhere; sndpar-
ticular y she made him promise, that since he confessed his own life had been a wicked abomi-
nable course of rovocstions agaith God, that he would. reform it, and not make God angry
any more, lest e should make him dead, as she called rt, and then she should he left alone,
and never be taught to know this God better; and lest he should he miserab' le, as he told her
figgmahmstmgebem-dfihd ad'ectr h but rtr ularl teth

' wasa acconn an very 'ngfousbot, 'c eyoun
clergyman; he was, indeed, wonderfuuy surprised with it; but and: the greyateat afllictiofi
imaginable, that he could not talk to her; that he could not speak English to make her under-
stand him; and as she spoke but very broken E lish, he could not understand her. However,
he turned himself to maaudtold rue,that he lieved there must be more to dowiththis
women than to marry her; I did not understand him at first; but at length he explained him-
self, viz. that she ought to he baptized.

I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going about it presently. "No, no; hold,
sir," said be, "though I would have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe, that
Will Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to
embrace are ' 'ous life; andhas 'venherjustideasof thebdngofaGodotHispower, 'ustice,
mercy;yetI esiretokuow ofgmifhehassaidanythingfoherofJesusOhnst, ofthe
salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in Him; and redemption by Rim; of the Holy
S irit. the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state." '

celled Will Atkins again, and sakedhrm; but the poor fellow fell immediate] into tears
andtoldus,hehadsaidsomethingwherofanthomthingahutthathewashimsei sowioked
a. ereeture.andhie own conscience so repreaehed him withhis horrid ungodly hfathathe
trembled at the apprehensions, that her knowledge of Him should lessen the aflenh'on she
should give to those things, and make her rather contamn religion than receive it; but he was
assured,hesaid,that her mind woeso disposedtoreceiredueimpressiousof allthosathings,
that if I would but discourse with her, she would make it appear to my safisisotion, that my
labour would not be lost upon her.

Accordingly I called her in, and lacing m as interpreter, between my religious priest
sndthe woman,I entrusted hrmto ' with er; butanre suoh aaermonwaa never
bhyapo ' hpriestin these latter ages of the world; and,asI toldhim, Ithonghthehadal]
t e all the knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the errors of a Roman
Catholic; and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were, before the
church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men.

In a word, he brought the 1' women to embrace the knowleflpf Christ, and of redemption
"' mlm"3h'deg"".SS" "21d mfiflexfifid '3' if" " "swam
'oyau ',' an action, asurp" nnersian' ,scarcs '
Jmuchlesstoheerpressed; audatherownrequestshewasba '

Whenhewasp ' tobaptizeher,1entreatedhim, thewonld ormthatollice
with some caution, the man. might not perceive he was of the Roman arch, if possible;
because ofotherillconsequencoswhroh ' htattsndadifierenceamongusinthat ' '
which we were instructing the other in. told me that as he had no consecrated no
props; things for the efl'ree, I should see he would do it in a manner that I should not know by
it t hewas a Roman Catholic myself,if I had not known it before; and sohedrd; for
saying only some words over to himself in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a
whole dish full of water upon the woman's head, pronouncinfi in French loud, "Mary"
(which was the name her husband desired me to give her, for was her ), "I baptize
theomthe nameof theFather,sudot the Son, and of the HolyGhost;" sothatnoneeonld
know anything by it. what religion he was of; he vs the benediction afterwards in Latin; but
either Will Atkins did not know but it was in Franc or else did not take notice of it at that time.

As soon as this was over, we married them; and alter the marriage was over, he turned him-
self to Will Atkins, and in e. vs afi'ectionate manner exhorted him not only to persevere in
that good disposition he was in. at to support the convictions that were upon him, by a reso-
lution to reform his life; told him, it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his
crimes; represented to him, how God had honoured him with being the instrument of bringing
his wife to the knowled e of the Christian religion; and that he should be careful he did not
dishonour the grace of %od; and that if he did, he would see the heathen a better Christian
than himself; the savage converted, and the instrument cast away.

He said a great many good things to them both, and thou recommending them, in a few
words, to God's goodness; gave them the benediction again, I repeating everything to them in
English. And thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant, agreeable day to
me, that ever I passed in my whole life.

But my clergyman had not done yet, his thoughts hung continually upon the conversion of
the scven-and-thirty savages; and faiu he would have stayed upon the island to have under-
taken it: but I convinced him, first, that his undertaki was in mticable in itself; and
secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of being one, in is absence, to his satis-
faction; of which by and by.

Having thus brought the afl'uir of the island to a narrow compass. I was ad" ring to go on
board the ship, when the youn man who I had taken out of the furnish a 'p's company,
came to me, and told me, he un erstood I had a cle an with me, and that I had caused the
Englishmen to be married to the savages, whom ey called wives; that he had a match too.
which he desired might be finished before I went, between two Christiana; which he hoped
would not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this must be the oung woman who was his mother's servant, for there was no other
Christian woman on the is and; so I began to persuade him not to do anythin of that kind
rashly, or because he found himself in t is solitary circumstance. I represeu to him, that
he had some considerable substance in the world and good friends, as I understood by himself,
and by his maid also; that the maid was not only r, and a. servant, but was unequal to him,
she being six or seven and twenty years old, and e not above seventeen or eighteen; that he
might very probably, with my assistance. make a remove from this wilderness, and come into
his own country again: and that then it would be a thousand to one but he would repent his
choice; and the dislike of that circumstance might be disadvantageous to both. I was going
to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling; and told me. with a great deal of modesty, that
I mistook in my guesses ; that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts, his present circum-
stance being melancholy and disconsolste enough; and he was very glad to hear, that I had
thoughts of puttin them in a wa to see their country again; and nothing should have put
him upon stayingl era, but that t e voy e I was going was so exceedingly long and hazardous,
and would carry im quite out of the reac of all his friends; that he had nothing to desire of
me, but that I would settle him in some little property in the island where he was; give him a
servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he woul settle himself like a planter, waiting the
good time when. if ever I returned to England, I would redeem him, and hoped I would not be
unmindful of him when I came into Eu land; that he would ive me some letters to his friends
in London," let them know how good had been to him, an in what part of the world, and
what circumstance I had left him in; that he romised me, that whenever I redeemed him, the
plantation, and all the improvements he made upon it, let the value be what it would,
should be wholly mine. . _

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth; and was the more agreeable
to me, because he told me positively the match was not for himself. I ve him all ssible
assurances, that if I lived to come safe to England, I would deliver is letters, an do his
business effectually; and that he might depen I would never forget the circumstance I left
him in; but still I was impatient to know who was the pcrsonto be married. Upon which
hetoldmeitwasmy Jacko all'l'rades, andhismaidSusaa.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match; for indeed I thoughtit very suitable.
'I'hecharaeterof thatmanlhavegiveualread ;audasforthe maid,shs was a very honest,
modest, sober and religious youngmzoman; a vegsgood share of sense; was agreeable
enough in her person; spoke very dsornely, and to purpose; always with decency and
good manners, and not backward to speak when anything required it, or rmpertinently forward
to speak when it was not her busiueu ; very handy and housewifely in anything that was before
her; an excellent manager, and it indeed to have been governess to the whole island: ahe knew
verytvgell how to behave to all kind of folks she had about her, and to better, if she had found
an are.

a match being proposedin this manner.wemarried them theaame day; and,astaa
father at the altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her a portion; {or I a pointed
her and her husband a handsome large spaeexzfuground for their plantation; and in eed this
match, and the pro the young gentleman , to give him a small pro in the island,
put me upon pares ' it out amongst them, that they might not q afterwards about
their situation.

ThissharingoutthelandtothemIlefttoWfllAtkins, who,indeed.was new grownamost
sober, grave, managing fellow; perfectly reformed. erecediulgly pious and religious; and, as far
as I "gay be allowed to speak positively in such a case, verily believe, was a true sincere
pem .

Es divided things so 'nstly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, that they only desired
one general writing an or my hand for the whole; which I caused to be drawn up, and signed
and sefled to them; settiu out the bounds and situation of every man's plantation, and testi-
fyirig, that I gave them ereby, severally, a right to the whole possession and the inheritance
of e respective plantations or farms, with their improvements, to them and their heirs;
reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent for every particular
plantation, after eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in my name, came to demand it, pro-

ucin an attested copy of the same writing.

As the overnment and laws among em, I told them I was not capable of giving them
better rules ghan they were able to give themselves; only made them promise me, to liven
love and good neighbourhood with one another: and so I prepared to leave them.

One thing I must not omit; and this is, that ' now settled in a kind of commonwealth
among themselves, and having much business in ban , it was but odd to have seven-and-thirty
Indians live in a neck of the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed; for, excepting the
providing themselves food, which they had dificulty enough in. too, sometimes, they had no
manner of business or pro to manage: I proposed therefore to the governor Stmnrard, that
he should go to them wi Ends 's tether, and pro to them to remove, and ei r plant for
themselves, or take them into air several in ' as as servants, to be maintained for their-
labour, but without being absolute slaves; for I would not admit them to make them slaves by
force. by any means, because they had their liberty given them by capitulation, and, as it were,
articles of surrender, which they ought not to break.

They most willing! embraced the proposal, and came all very cheerfully alou with him; so
we allotted themlan and plantations, which three or four acoe ted of, but all rest chose to
be employed as servants in the several families we had a ; and thus my colon was ins.
manner settled, as follows : the Smiards possessed "the usual habitation, whi was the
capital cit , and extended their tations all along si e of the brook, which made the
creek that have so often descri as far as my bower; and as increased their culture,
it went always eastward; the E lish lived in the north-east part, w W. Atkins and his
comrades began, and cameonsou wardandsouth-weet,towards theback part oftho Spaniards;
and ova plantation had a t addition of land to take in, if they found occasion; so that
thiun not yestle one an ar- for want of room.

the east end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any of the savages should come
on shore there. onlyfor their usual customary barbarities. they might come and go; if 1']:
disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them; and no doubt but a were often ashore, an
went away again; for I never heard that the planters were ever attack or disturbed anymore.
0
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my friend the ole man,_that the work
of convertin the savages mi ht, perhaps, be set on foot in his absence, to ' satisfaction; and
I told him, first now 1 thong t it was put in a fair way; for the savages being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but every one of them do their part with thou which came
under their hands, I hoped it might have a very good eli'eet. _

He agreed presently in that: " If." said he, " they will do their ; but how," says he.
"shall we obtain that of them P" I told him we would call them together, and leave it in
cha with them, or go to them one b one, which he tho ht best; so we divided it: he to
speiife to the Spaniards, who were all apists; and I to the nglish, who were all Protestants;
and we recommended it earnestly to them, and made them promise, that they would never
make an distinction of Papist or Protestant, in their exhorting the savages to turn Christians;
but them the general knowledge of the true God, and of their Savrour Jesus Christ; and
they likewise promised us, that they would never have any difi'erences or disputes, one with
another, about reli 'on.

When I came to . Atkins's house, I ma call it so; for such a house. or such a iece of
basket--work, I believe was not standing in e world again; I say, whenI came there, found
the you woman I have mentioned above, and W, Atkins's wife. were become intimates; and
this pru ent, religions young woman had rfected the work Will Atkins had begun; and
though it was not above four days after w at I have related, at the new-baptized savage
woman was made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any ' 'e her, in all my observation
or conversation in the world.

It came next into in mind, in the morning, before I went to them, that amongstlallthe
needful things I had to eave with them, I had not led; them a Bible; in which I showed my-
self less oonsiderin for them, than in ood friend the widow was for me, when she sent me
the on of a hen red pounds from is n, where she packed up three Bibles and a. Prayer-
book. owsver the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever she imagined; for
they were reserved for the comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of them
than I had done.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to Will Atlrins's tent, or house, I
found the young woman, and Atkins's baptized wife, had been discoursing of religion together;
for Will Atkins told it me, with a great deal of joy. I asked if they were together now. And.
he said yes; so I went into the house, and he with me, and we ound them together. very
earnest in discourse. " O, sir," says Will Atkins, " when God has sinners to reconcile to
Himself, and aliens to bring home, He never wants a messenger. My wife has got a new
instructor: I know I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that work; that young woman has
been sent hither from heaven ; she is enough to convert a. whole island ofsaveges.' The yonn
woman blushed. and rose u to go awn ,bat I desired her to sit still; I told hershe had a good
work upon her hands, and hoped would bless her in it.

We talked a little, and I did not rceive thuely had any book mama thou h I did not
ask; but I put my hand in my poc M, and p ed out in Bible. " ," says to Atkins,
" I have brought you an assistant, that, perhaps, you not before." The man was so con-
founded, thnt he was not able to s ' for some time; but recovering himself, he takes it
with both his hands. and turning to lis wife, " Here, in dear," sa s he, "did not I tell you,
our God though He lives above, could hear what we said Here's e book I re ed for. when
you and I kneeled down under the bush; now God has heard as, and sent it. ' he had
said thus, the man fell into such transports of a passionate jo , that between the joy of having
it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his face 6 a child that was orying.

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake. that none of us were
aware of; for she firmly believed God had sent the book upon her husband's petition. It is
true, that providentially it was so, and mi ht be taken so in a so neat sense; but I believe
it would have been no dillicult matter at t time, to have parse the poor woman to have
believed, that an express messenger came from heaven, on purpose to ' that individual
book; but it was too serious a. matter to sufi'er any delusion to take place. I turned to the
young woman, and told her we did not desire to impose upon the new convert, in her first andThe Life and (lawman: quabim-m 6mm. 21 I

moreignoruutundorehudingofthinge;oudbeggedhertoerpleinfoher.thutGodmy-be
very properly end 170qu our petitions. when. in the course of Hie Providence, lueh things
are, inoperhouler manner, bmughttopuee," we petitioned for; but we donotexpeet
retur:efmmheeven,mammouloneeudputieulurmunner;undthetitieourmeroythatit
uno eo.
Thintheyoungwomundiduflerwurdeeflectuefly-mthathhmmlmmyomnopfielb-
creftueedhere;andIehouldhevethoughtitoneogthemoetunjue'dfieblefreudsintheworld.
toheveheditso:butthelurpriueofizyupouWilIAtldneiereellynottoheexpreued;uud
there.wemeybeeuretherewuno union. Sumnomenweeevermoretheuflulinthe
worldforan ' of inkind.thunheweeiorthie3ible;nor,1believe, neveruuymenwu
ledofaBilefromobetter-princile;endthoughbehudbeeuemoetprofln'fi::eoreature.
Wfi,oumgeoue, 'ougandmkedtoegrmdegne. yet ' '
,fortheweuineh-uofingchfldremviz.thetpureufeehouldmergiveonr
toteachmdinetruehorevadeepeiroftheeueeeseoftheirendeavoumlettheehildrenhoever
soobetinete,rePSno1ory,or,weppeamnoe,ineenxihleofinetr'uctiou; forifeverGodinHie
Provideueeloueheetheoonecioueeeofeuoh, thefomoffheirdueefionrehmeuponthmend
the eulyinetrucfionof trienotloet, though it may havebeenmeuyyeereleidueleep
buheemetimeorother eymydudthebenefitofit.
Thueitweswiththiepoorman. Howeverignmnthewee.ordivestedoPSnligionud
Christian howbdgmhefoudhehedeometodo withnow, more ignoront thanhimself; Ind
thettheleaetpurtofflieinetrucfionofhiegoodiuthernhutcouldnoweomewhiemind,wuof

' A "it?" rich B'ble W'md'dhgwhis it???" not" When)" a"
In no e I. ; an r as. us. person;
buthgnevereuterteinedtheleeetpnrbfionofthew ofitfillnow;whenbeiugtohllrh
heathen, umundburberiem. he wanted the help ofthe written oreele forhieueieteuee.

Theyoung womunwle very glad of it elao,for the prwent occasion, though ehehedone;eud
so had the outh on board our ship. emu their goods which were not yet brought on share.
And now, vingsaideomunythingeofnghie youngwomenfl cunnof. omit felling one story
moreofherend myself. whichheeeomethinginit very informing and remarkable. _

Ihuvenletedtowhetextremi thepooryoungwomunwureduced; howher metres: wee
stenedtodeath, and did die, on that unhappy ehipwe meteteea; and hewthewholo
ship's company begs reduced to the last extremnty,the genflewomen, and he: amend this
manhwerefireth Mubpmfieiemandatlaettotdlyneglecfedmdmed;thet
istoeey.broughtflo hetextremtyofhuuger. _ .

One day, being dimureiug with her upon the extremh'es they euflered, I aelredhen! she
coulddeecribe, by whatehehedfielhwhezitmtoelermund hnwzteppeued. She told me
she believed shecould. and she told hertulevery diehnefly chum---

"Firsteirfeaid she, "wehedioreomedeyefired exceeding harder"! eufl'ered veryiireet
hunger; but now, at last, we were wholly without foodof any kind, out? sugar, and e we
wine,u.nd uliulewaier. The first du ,ufler I had received no food ell, Ilfoundgnynelf
towards evening firetempty and eiclriuh at my stomach. eudneerermght mxfihhly molmedto

uwniugendelee y;Ila.iddown onaeouchinthegreeteehin he'deepmnd ept aboutfhree
oure,endsweh elitflerefreehed. henl'gtuken oglauotwlne wheuIle down; after
being uboutthreehoure awnlre,itbeinguho fiveo'cloekinthemorninngo mysellompty
audm etomneheiekiuh,endleiddown ',butooulduoteleepetell,bemgveryfemtuud
ill; fingers I continued all the mud a . witlllxt'e strung: vafieg--figtblgangry.the%hmo=
osmium reachin tovomit. eocou mg huugohged go againwr on
:5 food more thuiludnughtof firweoermudbeinguleedemmedee-etBerbedoee,
thatthemurketweemig filymekedwithpmvrmenhntlbonghteomeformym
and went and dinedveryheertily.

"Ithought myetomechwu as full aflerthie he any would huvebeenefter,orot.egood
dinner;bu$when1we.lred1wee exceedinglyeunlr In my spirits to find pyeelfmfheextre--
nutyof fem' e. The hot glue: ofwme' wehedsI drenkmud putveugu- m rhbecenee aim

' o
having some spirit to snugly nourishment; but. there being no substance in the stoth for
the digesting office to wor upon, I found the only eflect of the wine was to raise disagreeable
fumes from the stomach into the head, and I lay, as they told me, stupid and senseless, as one
drunk. for some time.

" The third day, in the morning, after a night of strange and confused inconsistent dreams.
and rather dosing than sleeping, I waked ravenous and furious with hu r; and I question,
had not my understanding returned and conquered it; I say, I ueetion w ether, if I had been
a mother, and had had a ittle child with me, its life would ave safe or not.

" This lasted about three hours. during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature
in Bedlam, as In young master told me, and as he can now inform you.

" In one of ese fits of lunac , or distraction, whether by the motion of the ship, or
some slip of my foot, I know not, fell down and struck my face against the corner of a pallet-
bed, in which my mistress lay; and with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and, the
cabin-boy hrinlgrng me a lit 0 basin, I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and, as the blood
run from me, came to myself, and the violence of the flame, or the fever I was in, abated, and
so did the ravenous {art of the hunger.

" Then I grew sic and reached to vomit, but could not, for I had not i in my stomach
to bring up. After I had bled some time, I swooned, and they all believed was dead; but I
came to myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in my stomach, not to be
described; not like the colic, but a gnawing, eager pain for food; and, towards night, it went 05
with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food; something like, as I sup , the loagi
of a woman with child. I took another drought of water, with sugar in it, at my sto
loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again. Then I took a draught of water without sugar,
and that stayed with me: and I laid me down upon the bed, apraying most heartil that it
would please God to take me away. and, composing my min in hopes of it, I umbered
awhile; and then, wakin , thought myself dying. being light with vapours from an empty
stomach. I recommend my soul then to God, and earnestly wished that somebody would
throw me into the sea.

" All this while in mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring; but here it with much
more patience than , and gave the last bit of breed she had left to her child, my young master,
who would not have taken rt, but she obliged him to eat it; and, I believe, it saved his life.

" Towards the mornin , I slept again; and first, when I awaited, I fell into a violent passion
of c 'n , and after that ad a second fit of violent hunger; I got u ravenous, and in a most
drca fu condition. Had my mistress been dead, as much as I oved her, I am certain I
should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as much relish. and as unconcerned, as ever I did
the flesh of any creature appointed for food; and once or twice I was going to hits my own arm.
At last I saw the basin, in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the da before; I ran to
it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such a y appetite, as if I hagwonderod nobody
had taken it before, and afraid it should be taken in me now.

" Though, after it was down, the thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet it checked the fit of
hunger; and I drank a drau ht of fair water, and was_com and refreshed for some hours
after it. This was the in do ; and thus I held it ' towards night. when, within the
compass of three hours, I had these several circumstances over again. one after another,
viz.. sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain inthe stomach, then ravenous again, then sick again, then
lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour; and my strength
wasted erewdingly. At night I lay me down, having no comfort but in the hope that I should
die before morning.

" All this night I had no slees, but the hunger was now turned into a disease; and I had a
terrible colic and Piping; by win , instead of food, having found its way into the bowels; and
in this condition lay morning. when I was surprised a little with the cries and lamentatiens
of my young master,'who called ontto me that his mother was dead. I lifted in self up a. little,
for" I had no; 1strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though she was a Is to give very

't e signs o ' e.
"I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of some sustenance, that I cannotmrwr-wwv--v--vw ' '-'

   

271: Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe. 2 I 3 '-

describe; with such frequent throes and gangs of appetite that nothing but the tortures of
death can imitate; and mthis condition was when I heard the seamen above cry out, 'A
sail ! a sail!' and halloo and 'ump about as if they were distracted.
"I was not able to t od' 1:: the bed, and my mistress much less; and my yangg master
was so sick, that I t ought he had been expiring: so we could not open the indoor,
or get any account what it was that occasioned such a combustion; nor had we any conversation
wit the ship's company for two days, they havin told us they had not a mouthful of anything
to eat in the ship; and they told us afterwards, t ey thought we had been dead.
" It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were sent to save our lives; and how
you found as, air, you know as well as I, and better too."
This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to death as. I confem,
I never met with, and was exceeding entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe it to
be a true account, because the youth gave me an account of a good part of it; thou h, I must
own, not so distinct and so feehngly as his maid; and the rather because, it seems, ' mother
fed him at the price of her own life: but the poor maid, though her constitution being stronger
than that of her mistress, who was in years, and a would women too, she might struggle
harder with it; I say, the r maid might be an posed to eel the extremity something sooner
than her mistress, who mig t be allowed to keep t a last bits something longer than she parted
with any to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here related, ' our ship, or some
other, had not so providenu'ally met them, a. few days more would have ended all their lives
unless they had prevented it by eating one another; and even that, as their case stood, would
have served them but a little while, they being 500 leagues from any land, or any possibility of
relief, other than in the miraculous manner it happened. But this is by the way; I return to
my disposition of things arnozg the people. ' '
And first, it is to be obmrv here, that for man reasons, I did not think fitto let them know
anything of the sloop I had framed, and which thought of setting up among them; for I
found, at least at my first coming, such seeds of divisions among them, that I saw it plainly,
had I set up the sloop, and left it amen them, they would, open very light disgust, have
separated. and gone away from one one or; or pcrha have turned pirates," so made
the island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation o sober and reli ons people, so as I ,
intended it; nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had on board. or the two ;
quarter-deck guns that my nephew took extraordinarily, for the same reason. I thought it '
was enough to qualify them for a defensive war, against any that should invade them; but
not to set them up for an od'ensive war, or to encourage them to go abroad to attack others
which, in the end, would only bring rain and destruction upon themselves and all their .
undertaking. I reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another way, as I
shall observe in its place. . . _ '
I have now done with the island. I left them all in good circumstances, and in a flourish-
ing condition, and went on heard my ship again the --of ---,_hnving_been five-and-tweuty
days among them; and as they were all resolved to eta upon the Island till .I came to remove
them. I promised to send some further relief from the souls, ii I could possibl find an oppor-
tunity; and particularly I romised to send them some cattle; such as sheep, ' and cows;
for as to the two cows an calves which I brought from En land, we had been 0 god, by the
18 of our voyage, to kill them at sea, for want of hay to sad them. . _
he next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we missed, and arrived at
the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days: meeting nothingmremark-
able in our pussge but this. That about three days after we sailed, being beca ed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a hay or gulf, on the
laud-side, we were driven something out of our course; and once or twrce our men cried
Land, to the eastward; but whether it was the continent, or islands, we could not tell by any
means. .
But the third day. towards evening, the sea smooth and the weather calm, we saw the see. as
it were, covered, towards the land, with something very black, notherng able to discover what 1
it was; till, after some time, our chiefmste going up the main shrouds a httle way, and.
looking at them with a. perspective. cried out. it was an army. I could not imagine what he

meant by an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a feel, or some each word.

" Nay, sir," says he. "do not be angry, for it is an army, and a fleet too; for I believe there

a a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and they are coming towardsus
. space."

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew the captain; for he had heard
such terrible stories of them in the island, and having never been in those seas before, that
he could not tell what to think of it, but said two or three times, " We shall all be devoured."
I must. confess, considering we were beealrned, and the current set strong towards the shore.
I liked it the worse; however. I bade him not be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as soon
as we came so near to know that we must engage them.

The weather continued calm, and the come on space towards us; so I gave ordsrto come
to an anchor, and furl all our sails. for the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear
but fire; and therefore they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by the
head, and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture :
this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready, with sheets and buckets. to put out any
fire these savages might endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with us, but never was
such a horrid sight seen by Christians. My mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their
number, I mean of a thousand canoes; the moat we could make of them when they came up,
berng about a hundred and six-and-twenty, and a great many of them too: for some of them
had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least six or seven.

When thg came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and astonishment, as at
a sight whi they had, doubtless, never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards
understood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up, however, v near to us, and
seemed to go about to row round us: but we called to our men in the boa , notto let them
come too near them.

This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without our desi ning it; for five
or six of their large canoes came so near our long-boat that our men bec oned with their
hands to them to keep them back, which they understood very well and went back ; but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us iron: these boats; and one of our men in the long-
boat was ve much wounded.

However, called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed down some deal boards
into the boat, and the "Renter presently set up a kind of a fence, like waste boards, to cover
them from the arrows of e savages, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a. body asteru of us, and pretty near us,
so near that we could easily discern what they were, though we could not to 1 their design.
And I easily found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to on with: and in a little tune more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they
came ' y roadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon us, till the came so near-
that they could hear us speak. Upon this, I ordered all in men to keep close, est they should
shoot an more arrows, and make all our guns ready; but ing so near as to be within hearing,
I made hxriday out upon the deck, and call out loud to them in his lan , to know what
they meant; w 'ch accordingly he did: whether they understood him or not, know not; but,
as soon as he had called to them, six of them. who were in the foremost, or nighest boats
to us, turns their canoes from us; and, stoopingbdown, showed us their naked backsides; just
as if in English (saving your presence), they had id us kiss --. Whether this was a defiance
or challen , we know not; or whether it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest;
but imrn ' tely Friday cried out, They were going to .shoot; and unhapgly for him (poor
fellow) they let fly about 300 of their arrows; an , to my rnexpressrbls grief, ' ed r Friday,
no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no ess th ree arrows,
and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky marksman they were.

I was so enraged with the loss of m old servant, the companion of all my sorrows
and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and {our
{it}: great; and gave them such a broadside as they had never heard in their lives before, to
sure.
{5:3 were not abovehalfe. cable length 0E whenwe fired; and our gunners took their aim
sol , that three or four of their canoes were overeat, as we had reason to believe, by one shot
on .
sill-manners of turning u their bare beekeidee to us, gave us no great ofience; neither
did I knowfor certain whether t, which would pass forthe test contempt among us. might
be understood so by them or not, therefore in return I only resolved to have fired tour
or five guns at them with powder on] , which I knew would frighten them sufliciently;
but when they shot at us directly with the fury they were capable of, and eepeeiall as th
had killed In poor Frida , whom I so entirely loved and valued, and who, indeed. so w
deserved it, not only h been justified before God and man, but would have been very glad,
if I could, to have overset every canoe there, and drowned every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed, or how may we wounded, at this broadside. but. sure
eueha "ht andhurry never wasseenamo eucha multitude. Therewerethirteenor
fourteen their causes spfihand overeet,in ,andthe men all setaswimming; thereet,
trighteuedontof theirwits,scoured awayas fast esthaycould, taking but littlecaretosave
those whom boats were split or spoiled with our shot; soIsupmee that th wereman of
themlfist; and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his ' e, above an our after
were gone.

Our small shot from ourcannon must needs hill and wound agreatrnauy; but. in short. we
never knew anything how it went with them, for the dad so feet that, in three hours, or there-
abouts, we could notsee above threeorfour stragg' g canoes; nor did we ever see thereet
anymore,PSorahreeze of wind springingupthe sameevening, weweighedand setsailforthe

B

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creaturewas so sullen that he would neither eat nor
speek,andwe all fancied he would starve himself to death. ButItmk awaytocurehim,
forI made them take him andturuhiminto the laughs". and make him believe they would
toss him into the see again, and so leave him where ey found him. if he would not speak.
Nor would that do, but they really did throw him into the see, and come away from him,
and then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue
thou h theyknewnot onewordofwhat hesaid. However.atlaat, th took him in again,
andghenhebegantohemorehaetsble; nordid I ever design theflsho drownhim.

Wewerenowundersail 'u;buthasthemoetdisconsotecreaturealive,im-want
of my man Friday,andwoul have beenveryglsdto haveugone hack to the islandtohave
taken one of thereetfrem thence {or my occasion, but it co d not be; so we went on. We
had one prisoner," I have said, and rtwaea long while before we could make him under
stand anything; but,intime, ourmentaughthimeeme lish,andhe tobealittle
tractsble- afterwards we inquired what country he came m, but eoul make nothing
ofwhat he said,fer his speeahwae so odd,allgutturals.and spoke inthethroatin such a
1:122:21; oddnfiznner, thtiafitwe could neverlfofimt: word after him; and we were all of o'pligien

eymxg speak languageaswe e weregagged,asothemse;norco we

perceive that th had any occasion either for teeih, tongue, lips or palate: but formed their
words 'ust as a unfing-horn forms a tunawith an open throat; he told whenever, some
tune ,whenwehadtsu ht himtospeakafifileEnghahthatthe wersgoin .withtheir

' tofightagreatba e. Whenhessid kings,we asked him. manyiiml' He
sax there were five nation (woeould notmakehimunderstandflxsplural"s"),snd tth
ullJomedtogosgainsttwonation. We ukedhimwhat madethemeomsuptous
He eard,"To maheetegreat wonder look." Where itistobeobserved, thatallthose natives,
as also those of Africa, when they learn English, they always add two e's at the end of the
words where we use one, and placethe accent upon them; as "malted," "taket," and the like;
fizegloduldnot breakthem of it; nay, I could hardly makeFridayleave it of, though at

s

AndnowI namethepoorfellow oncemore,I muettakemylastleaveofhim. Poor.

 

J"
lionest Friday! We buried him with all the decene and solemuity possible, by putting
him into a eoflin and throwin him into the sea, and caused them to fire eleven guns for
him. And so ended the life of are most grateful, faithful, honest. and most afi'eetionnte servant
that ever man had. '

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and, in about twelve days' tune we made
land in the latitude of five degrees south of the line, being the north-easternmost land of
all that port of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four dag, when we made
the Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor 08' of the y of All Saints,
the old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate. . .

Never did a ship come to this part that had less business than 1 had; and yet it was with
great difiioult that we were admitted to hold the least correspondence on shore. Not my
partner himse f, who was alive, and made a great figure among them, not my two merchants
trustees. not the fame of my wonderful reservation in the island. could obtain me that favour.
But my partner, remembering that I given five hundred moidores to the prior of the
monastery of the Au ustines. and two hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the
monastery, and oblig the prior that then was, to to the governor, and got leave for me
presently, with the captain. and one more. befides eig t seamen, to come on shore, and no more;
and this upon condition absolutely cupitnlnted for, that we should not oli'er to land any goods
out of the ship, or to carry any person uwa without licence. _

The were so strict with us. as to Ian 'ng any goods. that itwae with extreme difficulty
that t on shore three bales of English goods. such as fine broad cloths, stuffs, and some
linen, w ieh I had brought for a present to my partner. '

He was a very generous, broad-hearted man, though, like me, he came from little at first;
and though he lrnew not that I had the least design of givin him anything, he sent me on board
a present of fresh provisions, wine. and sweetmeats, wort about thirty moidores, including
some tobacco. and three or four line medals in ld. But I was even with him in in resent,
which. as I have said. consisted of fine broad c 0th, English stufi's, lace, and fine ollands.
Also, I delivered him about the value of 1001. sterling. in the same goods. for other uses; and I
obliged him to set up the sloop which I had brought with rue from England, as I have
said taf'toi- the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my
p n ma.

Accordingly he got hands. and finished the sloop in a very few days, for she was already
framed; and I gave the muster of her such instructions as he oonld not miss the place; nor did
he miss them, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with
the small cargo I sent them; and. one of our seamen, that had been on shore with me there,
offered to go with the sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to allot
him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation; and giving him some clothes. and tools for
his planting work, which he said he understood, having been an old planter in Maryland, and a
bneeaneer into the bargain.

I encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage
which we had taken prisoner of war, to be his slave, and ordered the governor Spminrd to give
him his share of evefithing he wanted, with the rest. .

When we came to t this man out, my old partner told me, there was a certain very honest
fellow, a Brazil lanter of his acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure of the Church :
" I know not w at the matter is with him," says be, "but, on my oonseienee.I thinkhe is a
heretic in his heart; and he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the In uisition;"
that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make his escape, with his wicie and two
daughters; and if I would let them goto my island, and allot them a lantatiou. he would
givethem a small stock tobcginwith; forthe officers of theIn uisition seized all his effects
and estate. and he had nothing left but a little household st . and two slaves; and, adds he,
" Sigh I hate his principles, yet I would not have him fall into their hands, for hewill
ass ly be burnt ahve if he does."

I granted the ntly. and joined my Englishman with them; and we concealed the man,
andhis Wife and ughters. on board our ship, till the sloop put out to go to sea; and thenWV"W"' ,,__.\ . w... .,,,, ,.., _ '. ' . "i."

 

The Life and Adventure: of Robinson Crusoe. 217

(having put all their goods onbonrd the sloop some time More) we put them onboard the sleep,
atterhe was got outoi the hay.

Our seamen was mightily p eased with this new partner; and their stock, indeed, was much
alike rich in tools,in preparations, and a farm ; but nothing to begin with, but as above. How-
ever, they carried over with them (which was worth all the rest some materials for planting
engr- canes, with some plants of canes; which he (I mean the ortugal man) understood very

W

Amen the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the island, I sent them, b their sloop,
three ' ch cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs among them, three sows ig with pig,
two mares and a stone-horse.

For my Spaniards. according to my promise, I engaged three Port women to go: and
recommended it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. I conl have rocured more
women, but I remembered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, an there was but
five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of their own, though in another country.

All this cargo arrived safe, and as you may easily su pose, very welcome to my old inhabi-
tants, who were now (with this addition) between sixty an seventy people, beddee little children;
of which there was a great many; I found letters at London from them all, by the way of
Lisbon, when I came back to Eng ad; of which I shall also take some notice immediately.

I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse about it; and whoever reads
the rest of my memorandnms would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it. and expect
to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by those of
other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost forty years' misery and disappointments;
not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation; not made cautious by amietion and distress
be and imitation.

hadno morebnsinesstogototheEastIndies,thanamanatPSull li ,and havingcom-
mitted no crime, has to to the tnrnhe at Newgate, and Mre him to och him up among
the prisoners there, an starve him. ad I taken a. small vessel from England, and went
directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all the necessaries for
the plantation. and for my people; tool: a tent from the government here, to have secured
my property, in sgbjectliorgnlly '1: than; of ngland; Mflwlafiiemmdmd ammuni-
tion,servants,an e p u an ,telnng' possessiono o ' an strengthened
it in the name of nglsnd, and increased it with ple, as Ip ' ht easily have done; had I
then settled myself there, and sent the shi back, an with rice, as I might also have
done in six months' time, and ordered in ' nds to have fitted her out again for our supply;
hadIdonethis, andsta ed there myselfiI had at leastactedlikeamanof commonsense;
hnthasposscseedwi awande' spiritsccrnedallsdvan Ipleaeedmselfwith
being the patron of those people I placed there, and doing for em in a kind 0 haughty
majestic way, like an old patriarchal monarch; providing for them, as it' I had been father of
the whole family, as well as of the plantation: but I never so much as pretendedfe plantin
the name of any government or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my people
so 'ects to an one notionmorethsn another; nay, I never so much as gave theplace a name;
but ett it as found it, belonglilgg to nobody ; and the people under no discipline or government
but my own; who, though I an influence over them as a father and benefactor, had no
authority or power to act or command one we or other, fiarther than voluntary consent moved
them to comp] : yet even this, had I stay there, would have done well enough; butas I
rambledirom em,andoamsthmnomore,thelastlettersIhadfioman ofthem,wasby m
partner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop to the place; an who sent me we
though I had not the letter till five yearsatter it was written, thatthey went on but poorly, were
malcontent with their long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead; that five of the Spaniards
were come away; and that tho b they had not been much Included by the savages. yet they
hadhadsomeskirmisheswith em; andthatthey edefhmtowfihhmtothinkof
ttlfiepap'g-seIhadmadetefetehthemawey,thattheymig tseetheirownoonntryagainbet'ore '

nthasgonoawildgoosechaseindeed; andthnythotwillhaveanymoreofme,mustbo
content to follow me through a new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adventures; wherein

the justice of Providence may be duly observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge

us with our own desires, make the strongest of our wishes be our ailiicta'on, and punish us most

Eiffel .with those very things which we think it would be our utmost happiness to be
w m.

Let no wise man flatter himself with the stren of his own judgment, as if he was able to
choose any particular station of life for him . Man is a short-sighted creature. sees but a
very little way before him; and as hiscsassions are none of his best friends, so his particular
affections are generally his worst coun lors.

I say this with respect to the im tuous desire I had from a youth, to wander into the world;
and how evident it now was, that is principle was preserved in me for my punishment. How
it came on, the manner, the circumstance, and the conclusion of it, it is ens to give you
historically, and with its utmost variety oi particulars. But the secret ends of ivine Power,
in thus permitting us to be hurried down the stream of our own desires, is only to be under-
stood by those who can listen to the voice of Providence, and draw religious consequences from
God's Justice, and their own mistakes.

Be it, I had business, or no business, away I went; it is no time now to enlarge any farther
upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct: but to come to the history; I was embarked
for the vo , and the voyage I went.

_1 sho d only add here, that my honest and truly pious clergyman left me here; a.
ship being ready m to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither; bain still, as he observed,
boxcLi-maver to 5 ' any voyage he began. How happy had it been or me, if I had gone
WI .

But it was too late now; all things Heaven appoints are best; had I gene with him, I had
neverhad so many things to be thankful for, an you had never heard of the second partof
the Travels and Adventures of Robin Crusoe; so 1 must leave here the fruitless orclaiming at
myself, and go on with my flying;e

From the Brazils we made ' ctly away over the Atlantic sea, to the Ca do Bonne
Esperance, or, as we call it. the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable g voyage, our
course generally south--east; now and then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my
Erhsatsters ati1 sea were a; an hang; my futigle rubs and mbis events were tofhbefall in; onE shore;

a itmig ta ar, e n wasnsw prepared to onrscourgeas asea,w an eaven,
who directs thepcpiercumstauces of things, pleases to appoint it to be so.

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a aupercgo on board, who was to direct all her
motions after she arrived at the Cape; only being imi to certain numbers of days for stay,
by charter- , at the several ports she was to go to: this was none of my business, neither
did I med s with it at all; m as how, the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those
"3;?" between them as they ong t fit.

0 made no stay at the a , longer than was needful to take in fresh water, but made the
best of our way for the coat of Commandel; we were, indeed, informed that a French man-
of-war of tiny guns, and two e merchant ships, were fine for the Indies: and. as I knew
we were at war with France, I some apprehensions of em; but they went their own way,
and we heard no more of them.

I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with descriptions of places, journals of our
voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes, meridian distances, trade wind, situation of ports,
and the like; such as almost all the histories of Ion navigation are full of, and makes the
reading tiresome enough; and are perfectly unprofita to all that read, except only to those
who are to go to those places themselves.

Itis enough to name the ports and places which we touched at; and what occurred to us
upon our pmsing from one to another. We touched first at the island of H r, where,
thou h the ple are fierce and treacherous, and, in particular, very well arm with lauces
and we, w 'ch they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile;
they treated us very civilly; and for some trides which we gave them, such as knives, scissors,
&c., they brought us eleven good fiat bollocks, middling in size, but very good in flesh; which
.
'hei took in, partly for fresh provisions forour present spendingl and the rest to salt for the
s 's use.

e were obliged to stay here some time, after we had furnished ourselves with revisions;
and I, that was always too curious to look into every nook of the world wherever came, was
forgoing onshoreasottenasIoould. Itwason the Maids of the island thatwewenton
shore one evening; and the people, who. hflthe way, are very numerous, came the ' about
us,and. stoodgazingetnsatadistanoe; utaswehadtsadedfreelywiththem, hadbeeu
lrindlzaused, we thought ourselves in no danger: but when we saw the people, we cutthroe
bang out of a tree, and stuck them at a distance from us. which, it seems, is a mark in the
country, not only of trace and friendship. but when it is accepted, the other side set u three
poles,or hs;whiehisasignslthstflieysweptthe trucetoo;butthenthisisa own
condition of e truce. that you are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, nor they
comepast your threetgolee or boughs towards you; so that you are perfectly securewithin the
threepoles;andall eepace yourpolesand theirsisallowod. flkeamarhetforiree
converse, trafick, and. commerce. When his" go there you must not carry your weapons with
yon; and it they come into that stick u their javelins and lanms, all at the first
poles. and come on unarmed; butifanfivio se is o ered them,and the trucethereby broken.
away theyruntothe poles, and lay ho ottheir ns,and then the truoeis atenond.

It pened one evening, when we went on shore, t a number of their people came
down an usual, but all was very friendly and civil, and ey brought in several kinds of pro-
visions, for which we satisfied them with such toys as we had; their women also brought us
milk androots,and several thingsvery acceptable tons. and all was quiet; and we madeus
a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all ' ht.

Iknownotwhatwastheoccasion,hutlwasnotsowellsa' tolieonshoreastherest;
andthehoetriding atan anohoraboutastonecastfi-omtheland,withtwomeniuhsrtotahe
coreofhsr,Imadeoneofthemcome on shore; and gettingsome boughs of treestoeoverus
alsointheboahI read the sail on the bottom of the boat,and layundetthecoverofthe
branches oftrees, nightin the boat

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one of our men make aterrible noise on the shore
calling out for God's sake to bring the boat in. and come and hel them, for they were all like
tebemuniered; at the same time Iheard the fire of five in ets,whichwasthenumberof
the they had, and that three times over; for it seems the natives here were not so easily
{flintenedwrth suthesanguweminAmeficmwhereIhadtodowiththem.

this while knew not what was the matter; but. rousing immediately from sleepwith
the noise,Icausedtheboattobethrustin,a.udresolved,withthmefumlswe had on board,"
land and assist our men.

We gottheboatsoon'wtheshore; butourmenwereinteo muohheste; for,beingcomoto
the shore, th lunged into the water, to to the boatwith all the erpedifion they could.
beiugpnrsu between three and four undred men. Our menworebut nine in all,and
only five of them had fuseee with them; the rest had indeed pistols and swords, but they were
of small use to them.

We took up seven of our men, and. with dificulty enough too, three of them beingveryill
wounded; and that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in the boat to take our
men mwewminmmuchdangerastheywere in onshore; fortheypouredtheir arrows in
uponus sothick,thatwewerefain to barricade the side of theboatu wrththebenohes,aud
two or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we by mere accident, or
providence, in the boat.

And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it seems, such exact marksman, that if they could
have seen butths leastpart c any ofuatheywould have been sure oi us: we had,bythe light
of themoon, a little sight of them, as they stood pelta'ng us from the shore with darts and
arrows; and, having gotrsady our-firearms, we gave them a volley; thatwe could hearhytho
ones of some of them, that we had wounded several; however, they stood thus m battle array
2: the. shoze till break of day, which we suppose was, that they might soothe bettertotahe

err arm a us.
In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor, or set up our sail,
because we must needs stand up in the boat, and they were as sure to hit us, as we were to hit
a bird in a tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the shi , which though we
rode a league 0!}, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and b g asses perceiving the
posture we lay in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty w understood us; and,
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and. then
sent another boat. with ten hands in her, to assist us; but we called to them not to come too
near, telling them what condition we were in. However, they stood in nearer to us, and one of
the men, taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keepin our boat between him and the
enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on boa us, and made the line fast to
the boat; upon which we slipped our ittle cable. and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us
out of the reach of the arrows: we all the while lying close behind the barricade we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that she could lay her side to
the shore. she run along just by them, and poured in a broadside among them, loaded with
pieces of iron and lead, small bullets and such stufi, besides the great shot, which made a
terrible havoc amongst them.

\thn we were got on board, and out of danger. we had time to examine into the occasion
of this {my : and indeed, our supercargo, who had been often in those parts, put me upon it;
for he said he was sure the inhabitants would not have touched us after we had made a truce.
if we had not done something to provoke them to it. At length it came out, viz. That an old
woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, with a young
woman with her. who also brought some roots or herbs; and while the old woman (whether she
was mother to the young woman or no, they could not tell), was selling us the milk, one of our
men offered some rudeness to the weneh that was with her; at which the old woman made a
great noise. However, the seamau would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old
woman's sight, among the trees, it being almost dark; the old woman went away without her;
and, as we suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from; who, upon notice, raised
tibia greaIt army upon us in three or four hours; and it was great odds but we had been all

estroye' .

One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at him, 'ust at the beginning of the
attack, as he sallicd out of the tent they had made; the rest came 0 free, all but the fellow who
was the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mistress. for we could
not hear what became of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days aflor, though
the wind presented, and made signals for him; made our boat sail up shore, and down shore,
several leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had suffered
for it, the loss had been the less.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturiu on shore once more. to try if I could
learn anything of him or them; it was the third night ter the action, that I had a great mind
to learn. if I could by any means. what mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the
Indians' side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attached again; but I ought
indeed to have been sure, that the men I went with had been under my command. before I
enga ed in a thing so hazardous and mischievous, us I was brought into by it, without any
linow edge or desire.

We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the su reargo and myself;
and we landed two hours before midnight, at the same place where the In 'nns stood drawn up
the evening before. I landed here, because my desi , as I have said, was chiefly to see if they
had quitted the field. and if they had left any mar s behind them, or of the mischief we had
done them; and I thought. if we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our
man a in. by way of exchange. '

We ended without any noise, and divided our men into two bodies. whereof the bostswain
commanded one. and I the other. We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we landed;
and we marched up one body at a distance from the other, to the lace. but at first could see
nothing, it being very dark; till by and by our boatswain, that led t e first party, stumbled and
fell over a dead. body. This made them halt awhile; for knowing by the circumstances. thatthey were atthe place where the Indians had stood, they waited for my cominghu'p'here; we
concluded to halt till the moon began to rise. which we knew would be inlets an hour,
when we could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. We told two-and-thirty
bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some had an arm, and some a leg,
shot of; and one his head. , Those that were wounded, we supposed they had earned awe .

When we had made, as I thought. a full discovery of all we could come at the know
I was resolved for ' on ; but the boatswain and his party sent ms word. that they
were resolved to e a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as the called them, dwelt,
we: we a: s new sew we as. m; ... - mesa some
so no on go go y;anrm om.
there:th:tywasthsman'snamewemoet. '8 eymrg

Had they sent to as]: m leave to go, I knew well enough what answer to have given them:
for I should have comman ed them instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard lit for us
to run, who had a ship, and ship-loading in our charge, and a voyage to make, which
very much upon the lives of the men; at as they sent ms word they were resolved to go, and
only asked me and my company to go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose up (for
Iwas sitting on the groundarn ordsrto go tothe boat. One ortwo of the men beganto
importune me to go; and, w on I refused positivel , began to grumble, and say they were not
on er my command, and they would go. ' Come, Each, ' says one of the men, " will you go
with me? I will go for one." Jack said he would; and another followed; and then another;
and. in a word, they all left me but one, who I persuaded to stay; so the supercazgo and I, with
the third man, went back in the boat, where we told them we would stay for em, and. take
carototakeinasmanyof themasahouldbe left; for I told them.itwasa mad thing they
were goingdabout, and supposed most of them would run the fate of Thom. Jeffry.

They to me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come off again; and they would
take care, are. 80 away they went. I untreated-them to consider the ship and. the voyage;
that their lives were not their own; and that they were entrusted with the voy , in some
measure: that if they miscarried. the ship might be lm for want of their hel , an that they
could not answer it to God or man. I said agreat deal more to them on that sad, but Imi ht
as well have talked to the main-mast of the shi ; they were mad upon their journey; only ey
five me good words, and begged I would not angry; that they would be very cautious, and

ey did not doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at farthest: for the Indian
awn, they said, was not above half a mile 0 ; though they found it above two miles before

t to it.

<<it they all went away, as above; and though the attempt was desperate, and such as none
but madman would have no about. yet, to give them their due, they went about it as warily
as boldly. They were gefizntly armed, that is true; for th had every man a fuses or musket,
abameteveryman epistol; some ofthemhad broaden ses,some of them hangers; and
the tswain, and two more, had leases: besides all which, they had amen them thirteen
henfigrenadoee. Bolder fellows, an better provided never went about any wic ed work in the
war

When they went out, their chief "dill was plunder; and they were in mighty hopes of
finding gold there: but a circumstance, w 'ch none of them were aware of, set them on fire with
reven and made devils of them all; When th come to the few Indian houses, which they
thong t had been the town, which was not above elf a mile of. they were under a great disap-
pointment; for there was not above twelve or thirteen houses; and where the town was, or how

lg, they knew not; they consulted therefore what to do, and were some time before they could
resolve: for if they fell upon these. they must cut all their throats; and it was ten to one but
some of them might escape. it being in the ni ht, thogfh the moon was up; and if one escaped,
he would run away, and rares' all thetown, so ey aho d have a whole army upon them. Agn,
on the other han , if they went away, and left those untouched (for the people were all as p)
the could not tell which way to look for the town.
owever, the last was the best advice ; so they resolved to leave them, and look for the town
aswell as they could. Theywent on a littleway,andfoundaoowh'ed to a tree; thisthey
presently concluded would be a good guide to them; for they said the cow certainly belonged to
the town before them, or the town behind them; and if the untied her, they should see which
:3 she went: if she went back, they had nothing to say to or; but if she went forward, they

nothing to do but to follow her; so they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags,
and the cow went on before them. In a word, the cow led them direct! to the town, which. as
they report, consisted of above 200 houses, or hate; and in some of they found several
families livin together.

Here they ound all in silence; as tiiprofouudly secure, as sleep and a country that had never
seen an enem of that kind, could in 'c them. And first they called another council, to consider
what they h to do; and, in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three bodies. and
to set three houses on fire in three parts of the town; and as the men came out to seize them,
and bind them : if any resisted, they need not he asked what todo then; and so to search the
rest of the houses for plunder; but they resolved to march silently first through the town, and
see what dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desrLer-ately resolved that they would venture upon them; but while they
were animating one anot or to the work, three of them, that were a httle before the rest called
out aloud, and told them they had found Thom. Jeffry; they all ran up to the place, and so it
was indeed, for there they found the poor fellow, hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat
out. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixhen or seventeen of the
princi Indians, who had been concerned in the fray with us before, and two or three of them
wonn ed with our shot; and our men found they were awake, and talking one to another in that
house, but knew not their number.

The si ht of their poor mangled comrade so them, as before, that they swore to one
another ey would he revengcd, and that not an dish that came into their hands should
have any quarter; and to work they went immediately; and yet not so madly as by the e
and f they were in might be expected. Their first care was to get somot ' at we (I
soon 0 fire; but afier a little search, they found that would be to no purpose; at the most
of the houses were low, and thatched with age or rushes, of which the country is full; so they
presently made some wild-lire, as wear" it, by wetting a. little wder iu the palms of their

ands; and in a quarter of an hour they set the town on fire in our or five laces; and rti-
cularly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the re began to law.
the poor frightened creatures began to rush out to save their lives; but met with their fate in
the attempt. and especially at the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain himselr
killing one or two With his pole-axe; the house being large, and many in it, he did not care to
'0 in, but called for a hand-g'renudo. and threw it among them, which at first frightened them;
at when it burst, made sue havoc among them, thatthey cried nut in a hideous manner.

In short, most of the Indians who were in the open port of the house, were killed or hurt
with the undo, except two or three more, who pressed to the door, which the boatswaiu and
two more opt, with the bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and despatched all that come
that way. But there was another apartment in the house, where the prince. or king, or what-
ever he was, and several others, were ; and these they kept in. till the house, which was by this
time all of alight flame, fell in upon them, and they were smothered, or burnt ther.

All this while the fired not a gun, because the would not woken the p e faster than
they could muster t em; but the fire n to en them fast enough, an our fellows were
glad to keep a little together in bodies; or the fire a: so raging, all the houses bein made
of light combustible stuff, that they could hardly the street between them; on their
business was to follow the fire for tho surer execution. As fast as the fire either forced the
people out of those houses which were burning; or frightened them out of others, our people were
res y at their doors to knock them on the , still calling and hallooingto one another to
remember Thom. J efi'rys.

While this was doing; I must confess I was very uneasy, and especially when I saw the
flames of the town, whic , it being night, seemed to he just by me.

M nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men too, seeing such a fire, was very uneasy,
not owing what the matter was, or what danger I was in; especially hearing the guns too;
for by this time they hem to use their dreams. A thousand thoughts op ressed his mind
concerning me and the supeu'oargo. what should become of us; and. at last, ough he could ill
spare any more men, get, not knowing what exigence we might be in, hetakes another boat, and
with thirteen men an himself comes on shore to me.

He was surprised to see me and the supereargo in the host, with no more than two men; and
though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know what
was doin ; for the noise continued, and the flame increased. In short it was next to an
impossibifity for on men in the world to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened,
or the concern for e safety of the men. In a word, the captain told me, he would an help
his men, let what would come. I argued with him, as I did before with the men, e safety of
the ship, the danger of the voyage. the interests of the owners and merchants, duh, and told
him I would go, and the two men, and only see if we could, at a distance, learn whet was like
to be the event. and come back and tell him.

Itwas all one to talk whiz! nephew. as itwas to hlktothsrestbefore; hewouldgo,he
said, and he only wished he left but ten men in ship; for he could not think of having his
men lost to; want of help; he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life and all. And
awe. went e.

Inyaword, I was no more able to stay behind nowthaanas tofersuedethem ncttogo;
so, in short, the captain ordered two men to row back the pinnsoe, an fetch twelve men more,
leaving the long-boat at an anchor; and that when they came back, six men should keep the
twoboats,andsixmorecorneafterus; sothat he left onlysixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the late quarrel
which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the march, you me be sure we felt little of the ground we trod on; and being
guided by the fire, we kept no pa , hut wentdirectl to the place of the flame. If the noise
ofthe gunsweresurprisingtousbefore,ths criesoft epoorpecaizwerenowchuiteanother
nature, and filled us with horror. I must confess I never was at sacking of a city. or at the
taking of a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell ' g Drogheda, in Ireland, and
killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of Count Tilly seeing the oi of lidisgdebop'zge
and cutting the threats of 22,000 of all sexes; but I never had an idea 0 the thing i
before; nor is it possible to desoribe it. or the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it.

However. we went on, and at length came to the town, though there was no entering the
streets of it for the fire. The first obJeet we met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather
the ashes of it, for the housewes consumed; endiust before it, lain now to be seen bythe
light of the fire, lay four men and three women kill ; and, as we ought, one ortwo more lay
in the heafp among the fire. In short, there were such instances of a rage al er barbarous,
and of a ury something beyond what was human, that we thought it impossib e our men could
be guilty of it; or if ey were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of
them put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all; we saw the fire increased forward, and
the cry went on, just as the lire went on, so that we were in the ntmoetoonfuaion. We advanced
a little way farther; and beheld, to our astonishment, three women naked, and crying in amost
dreadful manner, come flying, as if they had indeed had wings, and afterthem sixwen or seven-
teen men, natives, in the same terror and consternation, with three of our English butchers (for
I can call them no better) in their rear; who, when they could not overtake them. fired inamong
them,_and one that was killed by their shot, fell down in our sight; when the rest saw us.
believing us to be their enemies, and that we would murder them, as well as those that pursued '
them, they set u a most dreadful shriek, especially the women; andtwo of then fell down as if
already dead wi the fright.

My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in myveins whenI saw this; and I
believe, had thethree English sailors that nrsnedthem come on, I had made ourmen kill them
all. However, we took some ways to let 0 poi-or flying creatures know that we would not hurt
them; and immediatelythey came uptous, eeling own. with their hands lifted up,mede
piteous lementationto us to save them, which we let them know we would: whereupon they
crept altogether in a huddle, close behind us, as for protection. I left my men drawn up
together, and charged them to hurt nobody, but. if possible, to tat some of our people, and
see what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended tgedo; and, in a word, to com-
mand them ofi; assnnng them, that if they stayed till daylight, they would have a hundred
thousand men about their ears; I say, I left them, and went among those flying people, taking
on] two of our men with me; and there was, indeed, a piteous a la among them. Some
of t em had their feet terribly burnt with trampling and running ugh the fire ; others their
hands burnt; one of the-women had fallen down in the fire, and was very much burnt before
she could get out again; and two or three of the men had cuts in their backs and thighs,
from our men pursuing; and another was shot through the bed , and died while I was there.

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was, at I could not understand one
word they said. though by signs I pereeived that some of them know not what was the occasion
themselves. I was so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I oould not
stay there, but went back to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town
through the fire. or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it cost what it would :
accordingly, as soon as I came back to my men, I told them my resolution, and commanded
them to follow me, when in the very moment eame four of our men, with the boatswain at
their head, roving over the heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust,
as if the wants more peo Is to massacre: when our men hallooed tothsm as loud as they
could co: and, with mac ado, one of them made them hear; sothat they knew who we
were, and came u to us.

As soon as the tswaiu saw us, he set n a halloo like a shout of triumph, for having, as
he thoufiht, more help come; and without ' to hear me, " tain,' as he. " noble
captain, am glad you are come; we have not half done yet. V' ous he -hound dogs!
I will kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head. We have sworn to spare
none of them; we will root out the ve nation of them from the earth :" and thus he ran on,
out of breath too with action, and won not give us leave to speak a word.

At last, raisin my voice that I might silence him a little. "Barbarous d !" said I.
"what are you oing? I will not have one creature touched more, upon pain 0 death. I
girge you, upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man

' minute."

" Wh , sir," says he, " do you lrnow what you do, or what they have done? If you want a
reason or what we have done, come hither;" and with that he showed me the poor fellow
hangin upon a tree with his throat cut.

I con as I was urged then myself, and at another time should have been forward enough;
but I thought they had carried their rage too far, and thought of Jacob's words to his sons,
Simeon and Levi, " Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel."
Bntl had now a new task upon my hands: for when the men I carried with me saw the
si ht, as I had done. I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have had with the
0 er; nay, m nephew himself fell in with them, and told me, in their hearing, that he was
only concern for fear of the men being overpowered; for, as to the people, he the ht not
one of them ought to live; for they had all glutted themselves with the murder of e r
man, and that they ought to be used like murderers: n n these words, away ran eight my
men with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their loody work; and I, seeing it quite out
of my power to restrain them, came awa pensive and sad; for I could not hear the sight,
much less the horrible noise and cries of e poor wretches that fell into their hands.

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercarfio and two men, and with these I walked
back to the boats. It was a very flat piece of PS0 y in me, I confess, to venture back as it
were alone; for as it began now to almost 68 , and the alarm had run over the country,
there stood about forty men, armed with lances an bows, at the little lace where the twelve
or thirteen houses stood, mentioned before; but I) accident I ' the place. and came
directly to the sea-side; and by the time I got to e seaside, it was broad day: immediame
lInteok the pinnace, and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in what might

pen. .
Iobserved, about the time that I came to the boat-side, that the fire was pretty well out, and
the noise abated: but in about half an hour after I got on board, I heard a volley of our
men's fire-arms, and saw a great smoke; this, as I understood afierwarda, was our men
telling upon the men. who, as I and, stood at the few houses _on the we ; of whom they
killeldusistnm or seventeen, and set all those houses on fire, but did not med with the women
or c .

B thattimethemengottotheshoresgam' withthepinnace,ourmsnbegantoa ;
theyy came dropping in, some and some; not in two bodies, and in form. as they went, 1:520?"
in heaps, shagg 'ug here and there in such a manner, that a small force of resolute men might
have cut them all 05.

But the dread of them was upon the whole country. And the men were amazed and sur-
srised, and so frightened, that. believe, a hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but

ve of our men. Nor in all this terrible action was there a man that made any considerable
defence; the were so surprised between the terror of the fire, and the sudden attack of our
men in the rk, that they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they fled one way
they were met by one party; it back again, by another; so that they were everywhere knocked
down. Nor did any 0 our men receive the least hurt, except one that strained his foot, and
another had one of his hands very much burnt.

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed, with all the men, in in mind,
but with him in particular; as well for his acting so out of his duty. as commander of e shi ,
and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in his promiptrng, rather than cooling, 0
rfie of his men in so bloody and one an enterprise. My nep ew answered me very respect-
f ; but told me that when he saw the body of the poor seamen, who they had murdered in
sue a cruel and barbarous manner, he was not master of himself, neither could he vern
his passion; he owned he should not have done so, as he was commander of the ship; ut as
he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the men, they
geieknot subject to me at all; and they knew it well enough, so they took no notice of my

rs e.

The next day we set sail; so we never heard any more of it. Our men differed in the account
of the number they killed; some said one thin , some another. But, according to the best of
their accounts put altogether, they killed, or estroyed, about 150 people, men, women, and
children; and left not a house standing in the town. .

As for the poor fellow, The. Jefi'rys, as he was quite dead. for his threat was so out that
his head was half ofi', it would do him no service to bring him away; so they led, him where
th found him, only took him down from the tree where he was hanged by one hand.

owever just our men thought this action, I was against them in it; and I alwa after
that time, toldthem God would blast the vo e; for I looked upon all the blood 3y shed
that night to he murder in them; for thong it is true that they had killed The. efi'rys,
yet it was as true that Jefi'rys was the aggressor, had broken the truce, and had violated or
debauched a young woman of theirs who came down to them innocently, and on the faith of
their public capitulation.

The beatswarn defended this quarrel when we were aiterwarde on board. He said, it is true
that we seemed to break the truce, but really had not; and that the war was begun the night
before by the natives themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men withont any
Just provocation; so that as we were in a capacity to ti ht them now,we might also be in a
capacity to do ourselves are>> :1 them in an ex manner; that ough the poor
man hadtaken a little 1i rty wi a wench. he ought not to have been murdered. andthat
in such a villainous manner; and that they did nothing but what was just, and what the laws
of God allowed to he done to murderers.

One would think this should have been enough to have warned us against going on shore
among heathens and barbarians; but it is im ible to make mankind wise. but at their own
expense; and their experience seems to be ways of most useto them.when itis dearest

bou ht.
Vge were now bound to the of Persia, and from thence to the coast of Commandel, only
to touch at Surat; but the ' of the supereargo's'design lay at the bay of Bengal, where
r

 

a
'l
if he missed of his business outward-bound, he was to go up to China. and return to the coast
as he came home.

The first disaster that befell us was in the gulf of Pm where five of our men. vsntiiriii'gl on
shore on the Arabian side of the gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all ' ed,
or carried away into slavery; the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue them, and had
but just time to get ofi' their boat. I began to ushraid them with the just retribution of heaven
in this case; but the boatswain very warmly tol me, he thought I wont farther in my censures
than I could show any warrant for in Scripture, and referred to the 18 St. Luke, vers. 4th,
where our Saviour intimates. that those men on whom the Tower of Siloam fell were not
sinners above all the Galileans; but that which, indeed, put me to silence in the case, was. that
none of those five men, who were now lost, were of the number of those who went on shore to
the massacre of Madagascar (so I always called it, though our men could not bear the word
massacre with any patience): and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said. put me to
silence for the present.

But in frequent preachin to them on this subject had worse consequences than I expected;
and the atswain, who h been the head of the attempt, came up boldlyto me one time,
and told me. he found that I continually brought that afl'air n n the stage; that I made
unjust reflections iipon it, and had used the men very ill on tgt account, and himself in
particular; that as was buta passenger, and had no command in the ship. or concern in the
voyage, they were not obliged!>> bear it; that they did not know but I might have some ill
design in my head, and, perhaps,>> call them to an account for it, when they came to England;
and that therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern
myself any farther with him, or any of his aEairs, he would leave the ship; for he did not
think it was safe to sail with me among them.

I heard him patientl enough till he had done, and then told him, that I did confess that I
had all along oppose the massacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and that
I had on all occasions spoken my mind freel about it, though not more upon him than any of
the rest; that as to my having no common in the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise any
authority, only took my liberty of speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned as all;
and what concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his business; that I was a considerable
owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak, even fartherthan I had
yet done, and would not be accountable to him, or any one else; and began to be a little warm
with him: he made but little reply to me at that time, and I thought that afl'air had been over.
We were at this time in the road to Bengal; and. being ' ' fijto see the place, I went on
shore with the an reargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myse ; and towards evening was
preparin to go on , when one of the men came to me, and told me, he would not have
me troub e myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not to carry me on heard any
more. Any one me. guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message; and I asked the
man who bade him cliver that errand to me P He told me the coekswain. I said no more to
the fellow, but bade him let them know he had delivered his message, and that I had given
him no answer to it.

I immediately went, and found out the some, and told him the story, adding, what
I presently foresaw, viz. that there would ce ' y be a. mutiny in the shigl; and entreated
him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and uaint o captain of it i
but I might have spared this intelligence, for, before I had spoken to ' on shore, the matter
was cfi'ected on board; the boatswain. the gunner, the carpenter, and, in a. word. all the
inferior officers. as soon as I was tgone at! in the boat, came up to the sorter-deck, and desired
to speak with the cagtain; and are the boatswain, mnkin a longhmnfue (for the fellow
talked very well), an repeating all he had said to me, told e captain in ew words, that as
I was now gone pesceab y on shore, they were 10th to use any violence with me; which. if I
had not fine on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone. They
therefore ought fit to tell him, that as they shi themselves to serve in the ship under his
command, they would perform it well and Eli ully: but if I'would not quit the ship, or the
captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and-sail no further with him: and
at that word ALL. he turned his face about towards the main-mast, which was. it seems,ths
' agreedon between them; at which all theseamsn hemg' togethsrthers, cried
"Jami" tiOnamandALLl" of ' a :- M809" .1 'a'u: 1::
he , e ,wsseman irit,n.n o oo' min,en
wasZurpl'ised,youm hesure.st thethi?.yethetnl themedmlyhswouldeonsideg'g the
thing, hutthst he eo do nothing in it I he had spoken to me about it. He used some
arguments with them. to show them the unreemanbleuess and injustice of the filing; but it
was all in vain; swore. and shook hands round, before his face, that the would go all on
shore, unless he wo d engage to them not to sufl'er me to come any more on the ship.
This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and did not know how!
mighttskeit; sohe totalkeevnlisrlytothem;toldthemthathessveryeonsider-ahle
owner of the ship, and injustioe he could notm me out of my own house; that this was
next door to servings as the famous pirate Kid dons, who made the mutiny in a ship,
settheee. ' on remsuuuinhnbited island,andrun swsywith the ship; thatletthem
go into w t ship they would. if ever they came to England again. it would cost them deer;
3M 1tnhe shifi an mine, and thtstmhefiuifignoot put me 0301' it; and "1131:1130 woultdhey mm
os'sn evo too, ' ' mesomu;sothey' as
Howevg, he would gong; shore and telk with me on shore, and mvli'tlgd the hoatswuin in go
with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matter with me.
But they all rejected the proposal,and said they would haveno ' to do with me any more,
neither on board nor on shore, and if I come on board they would on shore. " Well,"
said the oeptuin, "ifyouueallofthismindfletmegoouahoreand withhim;" soawsy
memetomewith this accounts little after the message had been hroughttomefxomths

swam.

I we: very led to see my nephew, I must eonfess; for I was not without a. rehensions
that they would confine him by violence. set sail and run away with the ship, on theuI had
beenstripped nakedinaremotecountrymudnothingto help myself; inahortIhadhesnin
ugorsethegsehzlasnwhenItmall :l'guetmtheislnud. and h hew

ut noteome en ,i soems.tom great sstufaoh' 'on- w sum
told mewzat theyhadsaidfohim, and how they momma shmkhmdqthstth'eyn?onld
one and alllenvetheship if Imsufl'eredtoeomeonboutholdhimheshouldnetheeon-
corned stitstnlLferIwouldstsyonshore. Ionlydesired hewould take cure undeseud me
slimy use things on shore, and leave measufieieut sum of money, audeould find my
we wEnglan aswellssIeould.

'fliswusehesvypieeeofnewstomy nephew; hutthere wasno'wsym help ithut to
camp] with it. So, in short, he went on board the shifigain, and satisfied the men thathis
unclehsdyieldedtntheirimportuni ,andhadseutfor ' goodsfi'omouboardtheehip. So
thematterwas over in a. very few ours; the men returned to their duty, and I begun to
consider whet oonrseIshould steer. .

Iwesnow alone in the remotest of the world, as I thinlrl' my call it: forI wes'neu
threethousundl ,1) see, eroiffromEnflandthnanasatmyialmhoulydtis
true,Imight travfihese land. over the Great ogul's oount'ryto .Surst. might gotten
.theuoe to Bessors by see, up the golf of Persia, en hem thence mighttske the "If"
the caravans. over the desert of Arabia. to Aleppo and Sanderson; from thenceby seeegun
toltelynndsooverlendintoFrsnee;andth:s,pnttogether,m:ghtbe,stleest,efulldmster
ofthe lobe; htifitwsmtohemwundlsupposeitwould up toheaqrentdealmore.

Ihag anotheswa before mwhiehwes toweitfm-sorueHumr pgwhchwezeooming
town-omA ' ontheislnndof Sumatra, and get 0 passageouboexdthemfor
Eng ; hut as I came hither without any eouesrn with the Enghsh..East India Company,
so it woulog'lfiiilfieult gig-20mm hence Montmuwhwtfieiunlessmtgagmt favoured the
03 tune or can sfnotms, wasanu rstrsn . ,

fienlhad fieggrficulu mrpm by centuries," seflheahiusetgszrilwiihent
me; nbmtmeut. .thinhmmnninmyeireumstnncesmroeevsrmethfhexegtfmm
pintesnnumgawsyewith the..ship.and setfiggthssethstwouldnotagreemththar _ _y

2
on shore: indeed. this was the next door to it both ways. However, my nephew left me two
servants, or. rather. one com anion and one servant. The first was clerk to the parser. who he
engaged to go with me. and the other was his own servant. I took me also a good lodging in
the house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged. some French, two Itahans, or
rather Jews. and one Englishman. Here I was handsomely enough entertained; and, that I
might not be said to run rashly upon anything. I stayed here above nine months, oonsiderin
what course to take. and how to manage myself. I had some English goods with me 0
value, and a considerable sum of "1"?th nephew furnishing me with a thousand pieces of
eighlt, alpd a letter of credit for more,if occasion, thatI might not be straitened whatever
mlg t a pen. _

I quickly disposed ofrny goods. and to advantage too; and, no I originally intended, I bought
here some very good diamonds. which, of all other things. was the most proper for me in my
present circumstances, because I might always carry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many roposols made for my return to England, but none falling
out to my mind. the English merc out who lodged wit me. and who I had contracted an
intimate ncqumintance with, come to me one morning: " Countryman," says he. " I have a
project to communicate to you. which, as it suite with my thoughts, may. for aught I know,
suit with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it.

" Here we are posted." says he. " you b acci cat and I by my own choice, in a part of the
world very remote from our own country; ut it is in a country where. b us who understand
trade and business. a great deal of money is to beg: if you will put a t ousand pound to my
thousand pound. we will hire a ship here. the we can get to our minds; you shall be
captain, I will be merchant. and we will go a trading voyage to China: for what should we
stand still for? The whole world is in motion. rolling round and round; all the creatures of
God, heavenly bodies and earthl ', are busy and diligent: wh should we be idle? There are no
drones in the world but men : w y should we be of that num r?"

I liked his proposal very well; and the more. because it seemed to be expressed with so much
good-will, an in so friendly a manner. I will not say but that I mig t, by my loose and
unhinged circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or. indeed. for anythin
else; whereas. otherwise. trade was none of my element: however, I might perhaps say wi
some truth that, if trade was not my element, rambling was, and no proposal for seeing any
part of the world which I had never seen before could possibly come amiss to me.

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our minds; and when we got a vessel,
it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
vo age, and. manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After some time we got a mate.
a tswain, and n gunner, English; a Dutch ca nter, and three Portuguese, foremast men;
wit}: these we found we could do well enough, ring Indian seamen, such as they are. to
ma a up.

There are so many travellers who have written the history of their voyages and travels this
way, that it would be very little diversion to any body, to give a 10 account of the laces we
went to. and the people who inhabit there; those things I leave to at ers, and refer t e reader
to those journals on travels of Englishmen. of which many I find are published. and more
promised every day. It is enough to me to tell you that I made this voyage to Achin, in the
island of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium,
and some nrreclr; the first, a commodity which bears a at price among the Chinese, and
which, at that time. was ve much wanted there; in a wo , we wont u to Sushnm; made a
very great voyage; were eig t months out. and returned to Bengal ; and was very well satisfied
wit my adventure. I observe that our people in England often admire how the oficers, which
the company send into India, and the merchants which nernlly eta there, get such very
great estates as they do, and sometimes come home worth to 70 and 150 thousand pounds at
a time.

But it is no wonder, or, at least, we shall see so much further into it, when we consider the
innumerable ports and places where they have a free commerce. that it will then be no wonder;
and much less will it he so when we consider that at all those places and ports where the English
ships come, there is so much, and. such constant demand for the growth of all other countries,
that there is acertain vent for the returns. as well as a market abroad for the goods carried out.

In short, we made avery good voyage, and I got so much moneyhythe first adventure,
and such an insight into the method of getting more, thathad I been twen years younger,
I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther tor 'ng my forhrne;
but what was all this to a man on the wrong side of reescore, that was rich enough, and
came abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a covetons desire
of gettingit? And,indeed,Ithinkitiswith tjusticethatIuoweallitarestlaasdesire,
foritwasso. Wheanasathomeras esstogoabroud;anduow1wasabroad.1was
restless to be at home. I say, what was thisdgaiu to me? I was rich enough, nor hadI any
uneasy desires about gettiu more money; an , therefore, the profits of the voyage to me were
thin of no great force for a prompting me forward to farther undertakings ; a and I "1th
that ythisvoysgeIhadmadeuopregressatall; becauseIwascomeback.asI ' ht it,
to the place from whence I came, as to a home; whereas my eye, which, like that whi Solomon
speaks of, was never satisfied with seein , was still more desirous of wandering and seeing. I
was come into a part oi the world whi I was never in before; and that partin particular,
which I had heard much of; and was resolved to see as much of as I could; and then I
thought, I might say, I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.

But in fellow-traveller and. I had different notions. I do not name this to insist upon in
own, for acknowledge his were the most just, and the most suited to the end of a merchan s
life; who. when he is abroad upon adventures. it is his wisdom to stick to that, as the best
thing for him, which he is like to get the most money by. My new friend kept himself to the
nature of the thing, and would have been content to have us, like a carrier's horse. always
to the same inn, backward and forward, provided he can] , as he called it, find his account
in it; on the other hand, mine was the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to see a
thing twice over.

But this was not alL I had a kind of impafienw upon me to be nearer home, and yet the
most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In the interval of these consultations,
my friend, who was always upon the search for business, proposed another voyage to me. among
the Spice Islands; and to bring home alosding of cloves from the Mauillas, or thereabouts;
places where. indeed, the Dutch do trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards;
though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not the whole power, as th
have at Batavia, Ceylon, as. We were not long in prs ' for this voy ; the chief d: -
culty was in hringintgbome to come into it; however, at lltd'aliyqt,n'hothing else daring, and finding
that really stirring nt and trading, the profit being so great, and, as I may say. certain,
had more pleasure in it, and more satisfaction to the min , than sitting still; which, to me
especially, was the unhap iest part of life, I resolved on his voyage too. which we made v
successtully, teaching at race, and several islands, whwe names I do not remember,
came home in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves, and some nut-
megs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them away for the Gulf; and, making near five
of one, we really get a great deal of money. _ .

My friend, when we made u this account, smiled at me. " Well, now," said he. with a sort
of agreeable insulting my ind ent temper, "is not this better than walking about here like a
man of nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense and ignorance of the
Pagans P" " Why, truly," says I, " my friend, I think it is - and I begin to be a oonvertto the
principles of merchandising. But I must tell you," said I, "by the way. you. do not know
what am adoing; for it once 1 con uer my heckwardness, and embark heartily, as oldaa I
am,I shall harass you upanddown Reward Ia'llI tireyou;for1ahallpnrsusrtsoeagerly,-
I shall never let you lie stall." _ .

But to be short with my speculations. A little while after this, there came in a Duteh ship
from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an European trader, and of about two hundred ton
burdellll;tothe men, as the pretended, 152$ beeni alpasickly,bthat the captain had not l21ers
enong gotoseawi , ela b at ;an ving,i seems, no one or
being willing, for other mohair) go for Europe, he gave pubhe 11$ thatchewohlfi sell
his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard of it. and I had a great mind to
buy it. So I goes home to him, and told him 0 it; he considered awhile. for he was no rush
men neither, but musing some time, he re lied, " She is a little too big; but, however. we will
have her." Accordingly we bought the s ip; and, agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and took possession. When we had done so we resolved to entertain the men, if we could. to
join them with those we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a. sudden. they having
received not their wages, but their share of the money. not one of them was to be found. We
inquired much about them, and at length were told. that they were all gone together. by land,
to Agra, the great city of the Moguls residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat,
and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as that I missed the opportunity of going
with them, for such a ramble. I thought. and in such company as would bet have guarded me,
and diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and I should both have seen
the world, and gone homcwards too; but I was much better satisfied a few days after. when I
came to know what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was. that this man
they called captain was the gunner only, not the commander; that they had been a trading
voyage. in wlnch they were attacked on shore by some of the Malaccans. who had killed the
captain and three of his men; aml that after the ca \tain was killed. these men, eleven in
number. had resolved to run away with the ship, which t ey did; and had brought her in at the
ha of Bengal, leaving the mate and live men more on shore; of whom we shall bear farther.

ell; let them come by the ship how they would, we came honestly by her. as we thought:
though we did not, l confess. examine into things so exactly as we ought; for we nerer inquired
anything of tho seamen. who, if we had examined, would certainly have faltered in their
account, contradicted one another, and perhaps have contradicted themselves; or, one how or
other. we should have seen reason to have suspected them: but the men showed us abill of sale
for the ship. to one Emanuel Clostcrshovcn. or some such name (for I suppose it was all a for-
gery). and called himself b that name; and we could not contradict him; and being withal
% little too unwary, or at east, having no suspicion of the thing. we went through with our

argaiu.

We >icked up some more English seamen here after this. and some Dutch; and now we
resolver for a second voyage to the continent. for cloves, &c., that is to say, among the Philip-
pine and Molucca isles; and. in short, not to fill this part of my story with trifies, when what
is yet to come is so remarkable. I spent, from first to last. six years in this country, trading
from port to port, backward and forward, and with very good success; and was now the last
year with my new partner, going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China; but
designing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage. being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down a great while in the
straits of Malacca. and among the islands, we were no sooner not clear of those dillicult seas.
but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not able, by all our industry. to find
out where it was. 'lhis forced us to make for some port; and my partner. who knew the
country better than I did. directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
made the English mate. one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the
sship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to

III".

While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment. there comes to me one day an
Englishman, and he was, it seems, a gunner's mute on board an En vlish East India ship, which
rode in the same river, up at or near the city of Cambodia. What mught him hither we knew
not; but he comes up to me. and, speaking English, " Sir," says he, " you are a stranger to me,
and 1 to you; but 1 have something to to 1 you, that very nearly concerns you."

I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought at first 1 had known him, but I did not.
"I! it re nearly concerns me." said I, " and not yourself. what moves you to tell it me?" "I
en: mar ," says he. " by the imminent danger you are in: and. for anght I see, you have no
knowledge of it." "I know no danger I am in," said I. "but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot
find it out; but I purpose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if Ieen find i " "Bat, sir,"
says he. "leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on
shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you. Do you know. sir,' said he. "the
town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river? And there are two large English
ships about five'lcagues on this side. and three Dutch." "Well," said I, " and what is that to
me P" " Why, sir," says he, " is it for a man that is u n such adventures as you nre,to come
into a port. and not examine first what ships there are t ere, and whether he is able to deal with
them? I sup you do not think you are a match for them P " I was amused very much at
his discourse, at not amazed at it; for I could not conceive what he meant; and I turned short
upon him, and said, "Sir. I wish you would explain yourself ; I cannot imagine what reason I
have to be afraid or" any Company's ships, or Dutch chips; I am no interlopor; what can they
have to say to me? "

He looked like a man half angry, half pleased; and pausing awhile, but smiling, " Well, sir,"
says he, " if you think yourselves secure. you must take your chance; I am sorry your fate
should blind you against good advice; but assure yourself. if you do not put to sea immediately.
you will the ye next tide be attacked by five long-boats full of men; and, perhaps it on are
taken, on Will hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I ought,
air," in dcd hc, " I should have met with a better reception than this, for doing you a. piece
of service of such importance." " I can never be ungrateful," said I. "for any service, or to an
man that oliers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension." said I, " what they shoal
have such a design upon me for. However, since you so there is no time to be lost, and that
there is some villnncus design in hand ainst me. I wil go on board this minute, and put to
sea immediatel , if my men can stop the oak, or if we can swim without stopping it. But.
lirh' said I, :s l I go away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give me no farther

ig t into it '

5'I can tell you but part of the story, sir." says he; "but I have a Dutch seaman here with me,
and, I believe. I could persuade him to tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it. But
the short of the story is this. the first part of which, I suppose, you know well one h. viz.
That you was with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the Sidec-
caris, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were on board with you, ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum of the story, and you will
all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you know
merchants' ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their power."

"Now you speak lain English." said I, " and I thank you; and though I know nothing
that we have done, li a what you talk of, but am sure we came honestly an fairl by the ship;
yet seein such work is u doin , as on say. and that you seem to mean honestly, will be upon
my gn ." "Nay, sir," says e, " 0 not talk of hein upon our ; the best defence is to
be out of the danger: if you have any regard to your ' e, an the ' of all your men, at out
to sea without fail at high-water; and as you have a whole tide before you, you will fine
too far out before they can come down; for they came away at high-water; and u theyo ve
twenty miles to come. you get near two hours of them by the did'erence of the tide. not rec ning
the length of the way: besides. as they are only hosts, and not ships, they will not venture to
follow on out far to sea, especially if it blows."

"We l," says I, "you have been very kind in this: what shall I do for you to make you
amends P " Sir," says he, "you may not be so willing to make me an amends, because you may
not be convinced of the truth of it: I will make an ofi'er to yam; have nineteen months' pay
due to me on board the ship , which I came out of :'filand in; and the Dutchman,
that is with me, has seven months' pay due to him; if you ' make good our pay to us, we
will go along with you. If you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if_we do
conVince you, that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her,
we will leave the rest to you." .

I consented to this reMily; and went immediately on board, and the two men with me.
As soon as I came to the ship's side, my partner, who was on board. came on the quarter-
dcck,andoalled to me with agreat deal of Joy. "0 ho! 0 ho! we have stopped the leak! we
have stopped the leak l " " Say you so," said I, "thank God; but weigh the anchor than
immediately" "Weigh!" as s he. "what do on mean by that?" "Whatis the matter?"
says he. "Ask no. questions,' says I, "but hands to work, and weigh without losing a
nunu ." He was surprised: But. however, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered
the anchor to be got up; and though the tide was not quite done. yet a little land-breeze
blowing. we stood outto see; then I called him into the cabin, and told him the storyetlsr e;
and we called in the men, and they told us the rest of it; but as it took us up a greal d of
time, so before we had done, a seamen comes to the cabin-door. and calls out to us, that the
captain bade him tell us, we were chased. " Chased," said I, " by who, and by what? " " By
five sloops. or boats," says the fellow, " full of men." " Very well," said I; " then it 18
ap nt there is something in it." In the next place, I ordered all our men to be called up:
an told them that there was a. desi to seize the ship. and to take us for mites; and asked
them, if they would stand by us, swig; one another? The men answered, eerfully, that one
and all, they would live and die with us'. Then I asked the captain, what we he thought best
for us to manage a. fight with them; for resist them I was resolved we won d, and that to the
last dro . He said, readily, that the way was to hes them ofi' with our great shot as lo

we co , and then to fire at them with our small arms, as long as we could, but w on
neither of these would do any longer, we should retire to our cloae quarters; perhaps they
had not materials to break open our bulkheads. or get in upon us.

The gunner had. in the mean time, order tobriug two guns to bear fore and aft. out of the
steern , to clear the deck. and loaded them with musket-bullets. and smell iecee of old iron,
andw at next came to hand; and thus we made ready for fight; but all is while kept out
to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being five large long-boats
following us, with all the sail they could make.

Two of those boats, which, by our glasses. we could see were English, out-sailed the rest,
were near two leagues a--hem of them. and iued upon us considerably; so that we found
they would come up with us; upon which we red a gun without a shot, to intimate that they
should bring to; and we put out a flag of trace, as a signal for pas-lay; but they kept crowding
after us, ti the came within shot; upon this we took in our white flag, the having made
no answer to it. ung out the red fie , and fired at them with a shot. Notwi standing this.
the came on till they were near enoug to call to them with a speaking-bum , which we had
on ; so we called to them, and bade them keep 03' at their peril.

It was all one, the crowded after us, and endeavoured to come under our stern. so to board
us on our quarter. pen which, searing they were resolute for mischief. and depended upon the
strength that followed them, I orde to bring the ship to, so that they lay u u our broad-
side, when immediately we fired five as at them; one of them had been lev ed so true. as
to carz away the stern of the bin emoat boat, and bring them to the necessity of taking
down eir sail, and runnin all to the head of the boat to it her from sinking; so she lay
by, and had enough of it; at seeing the foremost boat crow on after us, we made ready to
fire at her in particular.

While this was doin , one of the three boats that was behind, bein forwarder thanthe other
two, made up to the t which we had disabled. torelieve her, an we could afterwards see
her take out the men; we called again to the foremost boat, and altered a truce to lay
again, and to know what was her business with us; but had no answer: only she crowd class
under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous follow, run out his two chase
guns, and fired again at her; but the shot ' ' , the men in the boat shouted. waved their
caps, and came on; but the gunner getting quick y read again, fired among them the second
time; one shot of which, though it missed the boat i , yet fell in among the men. and we
could easily see had. done a great deal of mischief amongbgiem; but we. taking no notice of
that, weered the ship again, and brought our quarter to r upon them; and, firing three
guns more. we found the boat was split almost todpieces; in particular, her rudder, and a piece
of her stern, was shot quite sway; so they han ed their sailimmediately, and werein great
disorder; but, to complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again; where
he hit them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking. and some of the men already
in the water. Upon this I immediately manned out our piunece. which we had kept close by271: Life 4114;4qu "Robinson Crusoe. 233

our side.withorders bpkkupmeofthememfltheymflimduvethsm from drownmg' .
andimmediahlytocomeonhoardwiththem;hecauaewesawthereatofthehoats to
come up. Our men in the pinnece followed their orders, and took up three men; one of which
wasjustdrowningmndetwasagoodwhileheforewecouldrecoverhim. Assoonsstheywere'
on board,we crowded all the sarlwe could makgudstoodhrthuouttnm; andwefound
thatwheu the otherthree boats cams upto the firsttwo, they gave overtheir chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which though I knew not the reason of it, yetseemed
to bemuchgreaterthanlapprehend .Itoohcarothat weshould changeourcoamandnot
let any one imagine whither we were in'i; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of
the course of all European ships, who ey were bound to China, or anywhere else, within
the commerce of the European nations.

When we were now at see. we began to consult with the two seamen, and inquire first, what
them ' ofallthis should be? Andthe Dutchman let us into the secret of it at once;
telling as, t tthe fellow that sold us the ship, as we said. was no more than athief that had
run away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too he told as, h I do
not remember, was treacherously murdered b the natives on the com of Malacca, wi three
of his men; and that he. this Dutchman. and our more, get into the woods, where theywandered
about a great while: till at length he, in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape,
and swam 03' to a Dutch ship, which. saili near the ahore, in its way from China, had sent
their boat on shore for inch water; that he uret not come to that port of the shore where the
boatwas. hutshiftinthenighttotakethewaterfartheromaudtheshi 'shoattookhimm

He then told us. that he went to Betavia, where two of the seamen helonging to the 'p
arrived, having deserted the reetin their travels; and gave an account. that the fellow who
had run away with the ship, sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone a cruising
ii'ah"; and that theth already taken an English ship, and two Dutch ships, veryrichly

en.

This latter part we found to concern us directly; and though we knew it to be false, yet, as
my partner said very well, i! we had fallen into their hnn and they had had such a proges-
sessron against us beforehand. it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves. or to ope
for any good uarter at their hands; and especially considering that our accuser-s hedheen
our judges, an that we could have expected nothing from them but w rage would have
dictated. and an un verned pmeion have executed; and therefore itwas hie opinion, we should

direct! hack "gengul, from whence we came, without putting in at any port whatever;
amuse t are we could give a good account at ourselves, could prove where we were when the
ship put in, age we houghtfhfir of, and "hoof like ; "1:26., which more shthannmalllmthe reatt',' :12" we
were t to necessity o ringing it are ropes- ' we 0 sure ve
someg'dstice; and not be hanged first. and judged M _

I was some time of my partner'miuion; but after a little more serious thinkin , I told hun,
I thought it was a very great he for us to attempt ' to Bengal. for t we were
on the wrong side of the straits of Malacca; and that if the was 'ven. we should he
sure to he waylsid on every side, as well by the Dutch of Batavie as the nglish elsewhere;
that if we should be taken, as it were, running awe . we should even condemn ourselves, and
there would want no more evidence to destroy us. also asked the English sailor's opinion,
who said he was of my mind, and that we should certainly be taken. . .

This dangeralittle startled my er, and all the ship's com y; and "immediately
resolvedtogoaway tothecoestof onquin,andso ontothecoast _0hrna; andpursurngthe
firstdesign,astotrade.findsomowayorotherto oftheshrp,andcomshechmeome
of the vesseleotthedcountrydinsufh as satanic! goth-NE hm apps-egg! ofifgthehestomfisthod

oroursecun :an acco we away . . eeprnga e leagues from
the usual court's to the eastward.y

This, however, put us to some inconveniences : for first the winds.' when we came to the
distance from the shore. seemed to be moresteedil againstuahlowrng almosttndemswe
call ithomtheeastand ENEJothat wewere a ongwhilenponourvoyuge; andwewere
but illprevidedwithviotualsforsolongavoyage; mdwhichwustfllwomtherewss some
danger, that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued as, whereof some were bound
that way. might be got in before us; and if not, some other ship, bound to China, might have
information of us from them. and pursue us with the same vigour.

I must confess. I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including the late escape from
the long-boats, to have been in the most denierous condition that ever I was in through all
my past life; for. whatever ill circumstances I ad been in, I was never pursued for a thief
before; nor had I ever done anything that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much
less thicviah. I had chiefly been my own enemy; or, as I may rightly any, I _had been nobody's
enemy but my own. But now I was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable; for though
I was perfect! innocent. I was in no condition to make that innocence appear. And if 1 had
been taken, it ad been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind; at least. a crime esteemed so
among the ple I had to do with.

This m e me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it, I knew not: or
what port or lace we should go to. My partner. seeing me thus dejected, thou h he was the
most concerned at first. began to encourage me; and describing to me the severe ports of that
coast, told me, he would put in on the coast of Cochin-china, or the bay of Tonquin; intendin
to go afterwards to Macao, atown once in the possession of the Portuguese, and where at
a great many European families resided, and particularly the missionary priests usually went
thither. in order to their going forward to China.

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a tedious and irregular coarse.
and very much straitened for provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the
morning; and. upon reflection upon the past circumstances we were in, and the danger if we
had not escaped, we resolved to put into a. small river, which, however, had depth anon h of
water for as, and to see if we could. either over land or by the ship's inn come to now
what ships were in any port thereabonts. This be my step was, indeed. our eliverunce; for
though we did not immediately see any Euro n s r s in the bay of 'l'ouquin, yet, the next
morning. thcrc came into the buy two Dutch s 'ps, an a third without any colours spread out,
but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed b at about two leagues distance, steering
for the coast of China: and in the aflemoon went y two English ships, steerin the same
course: and thus, we thought. we saw ourselves beset with enemies. both one way an the other.
The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the people thieves. even by occupation or pro-
fession; and though. it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and except gettin a few
provisions. cared not how little we had to do with them; yet it was with much diflic ty that
we lrept ourselves from being insulted by them in several ways.

We were in a small river of this country, within a. few leagues of its utmost limits northward;
and by our boat we coasted northmt to the point of land which opens the great bay of
Touquiu; and it was in this beating up along the shore. that we discovered as above, that, in a
word. we were surrounded with enemies. The people we were among were the most barbarous
of all the inhabitants of the coast; having no correspondence with any other nation. and dealing
only in fish and oil. and such gross commodities; and it may be particularly seen, that they
are. as I said. the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants, viz., that among other customs
they have this as one, that if any vessel have the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast,
they presently make their men all prisoners or slaves; and it was not long before we found a
spice of their kindness this way, on the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprang_a leak at sea. and that we could not find it out;
and however it happened, that as I have said. it was stopped nnexpectedl . in the happy minute
of our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships, in the ha 0 Siam ; yet, as we did
not find the ship so perfectly fit and sound as we desired. we reso ved, while we were in this
place, to la her on shore, take out what heavy things we had on board, which were not many,
and to was and clean her bottom; and if possible, to find out where the leaks were.

Accordingly. having ligyhltgned the ship. and brought all our guns, and other moveable things,
to one side, we tried to ' fisher down, that we might come at her bottom : but, on second

thoughts, we did not care to y her dry on ground, neither could we find out a proper place
or r . . ,
The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with suoh a sight. came wondering down to
the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and
heelmg towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom, with
stages, and with their boats on the 03 side, they presently concluded that the ship was cast
away, and lay so test on the ground. .

On the supposition they came all about us in two or three hours' time, with ten or twelve
large boats. havm some of them eight, some ten men in a boat. intending, no doubt, to have
come on board an plundered the ship ;_ and if they found us there, to have carried us away for
slaves to their king, or whatever they call him, for we knew no ' who was their governor.

When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, sy discovered us all hard at
work on the outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing and grsvmg, and stopping, as every
seafaring man knows how.

They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised, could noti ' e
whattheirdesign was; but being willing to be sure,we took this opportunityto getsome us
into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to ose that were at work to
defend themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no more than used; for, in less
than a quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the shi was reallya wreck;
that we were all at work, endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives by the help of our hosts;
and when we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by that motion, that we were
endeavouring to save some of our goods. Upon this they took it for granted we all belonged
to them; an away they came down upon our men. as if it had been in a line of battle.

Our men, seein so many of them, began to be frightened; for we lay but in an ill gauge
to light, and c ' out to us to know what they should do? I immediately called to men
who worked u n the stages, to slip them down, and get up the side into the ship; mid bade
those in the t to row round and come on board; and those few of us who were on
worked with all the strength and hands we had, to bring the ship to rights; but, however,
neither the men upon the stage nor those in the boats. could do as they were ordered, before
the Cochinohinese were upon them; and with two of their boats bonded our long-boat, and
km to lay hold of the men as their prisoners. .

first man the laid hold of was an!) lish seeman, a stout strong fellow, whoha

a musketinhishan ,never offeredtofire it, ut laid it down in the boat.like a tool, as
thought But he understood his business better than I could teach him; for he grappled the
pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their own boat into our-e; wherehtaking him by
the two care, he beat his head so Bgainst the boat's guns], that the fellow died instantly in
his hands; and. in the meantime, e utchman, who stood next, took up the musket, and with
the butt-end of it, so laid about him, that he knocked down five of them who attsm ted to
enter the boat; but this was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who earls>>,
because ignorant of their er, began to throw themselves into the long-boat. where we had
but five men in all to defeu it; but one accident gave our man a complete victory, which.
deserved our lau hter rather than anything else; and that was this--

Our carpenter ' preparing to grave the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams
where he had caulkexfherno she the leaks, and got two kettles just_lst down into the boat;
one filled with boiling pitch, and) the other with rosin, tellow, and all. and such stulf as'the
shi wrights use for that work; and the manthattendedthoce terhadagrsatrron ladle
in his hand. with which he supplied the men that were at workwi . that hot stud: two of the
enem s men entered the boat not where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets; he imme-
dis saluted them with a ladlefnl of the stud', boiling hot, whioh_so burnt and scolded them,
beinghalf-naked, that they roared out like two balls, and enraged with the fire, leaped both into
the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, " Well done. Jack, give them some more of it; "
and stepping forward himself, takes one of their mops. and d: mg it in the itch- t. e and;
his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, in short, of . the men in three foods, there
was not one thstwas not sealded and burnt with it in amostfnghtful rtitulmanner,:and made,
such a howling and smug that I never heard a worse noise, and m , nothing hke it; for;
it is. worth observing, t though pain naturally makes all people cry out, yet every nation
has a particular way of exclamation, and make noises as different from one another as their
speech. I cannot give the noise these creatures made, a better name than howling, nor a
name more roperto the tone of it; for I never heard anything more like the noise of the
wolves, whi , as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of edcc.

I was never pleased with a victory better in in life; not only as it was a pa eet surprise to
me. and that our danger was imminent before; at as we fit" this victory without any blood-
shed, except of that man the fellow ln'lled with his naked ds, and which I was very much
concerned at: for I was sick of killing such poor save notches, even though it was in in own
defence, knowing)?" came on errands which they ought just. and knew no better; an that
though it may a just thing, because necessary, for there is no necessary wickedness in
nature; yet I thought it was a sad life, which we must be always obliged to be killing our
fellow-creatures to preserve; and indeed, I think so still; and I would, even now, suffer a _ t
deal rather than I would take away the life even of that person injuring me. And I eve
all considerirrgs people, who know the value of life. would be of my opinion, at least they would,
if they ente seriously into the consideration of it.

But to return to in story; all the while this was doing, my partner and I. who managed the
rest of the men on and, had, with great dexterity, brought the ship almost to rights; and
having gotten the guns into their places again, the unner called to me, to bid our boat get out
of the way, for he would let fly among them. I led back again to him. and bid him not
afier to fire, for the carpenter would do the work without him; but badehim heat another piteh-
kettle; which our cook. who was on board, took care of. But the enemy was so terrified with
what they had met with in their first attack, that they would not come on again; and some of
them, that were farthest of, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, began, as we supposed,
to see their mistake. and give over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected. Thus
we got clear of this merry fight; and, having gotten some rice, and some roots and bread,
with about sixteen good big hogs on board, two days before, we resolved to stay here no
longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but we should he
2??!)de the next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose

or us.

We therefore got all our things on hoard the same evening, and the next mornin were read
to sail. In the meantime, lying at an anchor at some distance, we were not so mnc eon ,
being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailin Rotate, it any enemy had presen
The next day, having finished our work within board, an ding our ship was perfectly healed
of all her leaks, we set sail: we would have gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to
inform ourselves of what was to be known concerning the Dutch ships that had been there:
but we durst not stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a
little before; so we kept on RE, towards the isle of Formosa, as much afraid 0 being seen
by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a. Dutch or English merchant ship in the Mediter-
ranean is of an erine man-of-war.

When we were t us got to see, we kept out NE. as if we would go to the Mnnillas or the
Philippine islands, and this we did that we might not fall into the way of any of our Euro
ships; and then we steered N., till we came to the latitude of 22 degrees, 30 min. by w 'ch
means we made the island Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water
and fresh provisions, which the le there, who are very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and mt very fairly and punctually with us in all their agreements
and bargains; which is what we did not find among other people; and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity, which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary of protestauts, and
is a testimony of what I have often observed, via, That the Christian religion always civilius
are people. and reforms their manners, where it is received, whether it works saving efi'eots upon

em or no.

From hence we sailed still north. keeping the coast of China at an equal distance, till we knew
ye were beyond all the ports of China, where our Euro ships usually come; being resolved,
at posu'ble. not to fall into egg of their hands, ' y in this country, where, as our nn'rcum~
stances were, we could not f ofbeing entirely ruined; nay, so greatwas my fear in particular,
as tomy being taken bythem, that I believe firmly I would much rather have chosen to hill into
"m""mmw fififii'mw ma 5 mi,

' nowcometo e u o ' .wereso to utintothe rst ' rt
weshouldcomeat; audstandingin fox-the s ore,n boatcume 0 two leagues to usumgoan
old _Po . ese_pilot on board. who knowing us to be an Emmaship. came to ofi'sr his
service, w ch, Indeed, we were very glad o , and took him on ; u'pion which, without
oskizkguswhitherwewouldgo.hedismiseedtheboathecamein,sndsont emback.

I ought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man carry us whither we would.
that Ibegan to talk with him about earning us tothe Gulf ofNanquin. whiohisthemost
northern part of the coast of China. The old man said he knewthe Gulf of Nanquiu verywell;
but smiling, asked us what we would do there P

I told him we would sell our largo, and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, fem
wrought silks. be" and so would return by the same course we come. He told us our best port
had been to here put In at Macao, where we could not have hailed of a market for our opium.
to our satislsctlon. and might, for our money, have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap
as we could at Nenquin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was very opiniated or conceited,
Itold himwewere gentlemenas well as merchantsumd that we had a mind to go and see
the great city of Pekln, and the tamous court of the monarch of China. " Why, then," says the
old mun, " you should go to Ningpo, where, b the river which runs into the sen. there, you may
5 up within five 1 of the great cans!" This canal is a navigable river, which goes

rough the heart of at vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers, me some considerable
hills by the help of sluiccs and gates, and goes up to the city of Pehin. ' g in length near 270

es.

" ell," said I, "Seignior' ' Port ese, but that is not our business now: the t uesh'on
is, If you can carry us up to thug! of Nanquin, from whence we can travel fields]: after-
wards P " Yes." he said, ' he could 0 so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone
up that we just before. This gave me n. little shock; and a Dutch ship was now our terror,
and. we hadymuoh mther have met the devil, atleest if he had not come in too frightful a
figure: and we depended upon it, that a Dutch shi would be our destruction. for we were in
no condition to fight them; all the ships they tin with in those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused. and under some concern, when he named a Dutch
ship; and. said to me, "Sir, you need be under no apprehension of the Dutch, I suppou they are
not now at war with your nation." "No," said I, "that's true: but I know not what liberties
men may take, when they are out of the reach of the laws of their country." " Why." said he,
"you are no pirates, what need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merchants,
s n

ure.

IfIhadanyhlcodinmybodythatdidnot flyupintomyfioeatthatwordtitwashindsred
by some stopinthe vessels ap inted by nature?>> revent it; forit put me rutotbe mm
dfiorder floonfusionedimaginshl'e; nor was it poser Is for me to conceal it so, but the
0 man perceiv it.

"Sir," saidyhe, "Iiind uareinsomedisorderin your thoughtsatmy talk: lproybe pleased
fogowhiehwayyouthingofit; suddependuponitlwilldoyouallthesemee cam" "Why,
Seignior," said I,"itistrue,Iama little unsettledinmy resolution atthistume, whither-top
in particular; and I am something more so. for what you said aboutguates: I hope there
arch? pii'rates in thzuseasiivieare butignau ill widifiontomeetwi them; for you see
we we ntasmsll orce,an at w mann " _ .

"0, Sir," said he,"do nothecouceurrlied; I e not know that there has been an _p1ntes in
these seas thesefifieen yearaexceptone,whichwasseeu,asIhear,inthebayof runabout
amonthsinoe; but umsybeassuredshe is gonotathe southward; nor was she a shine!
inygreatforee. or tforthework: shswasnotbuilt flora vateer,but was run away with
zanprohatemwthstwereon board.aPSterthocaptainan someof his men hadbeeu mur-

bytheMslsecansatorne-rtheislandofSuruafi-a.
"What l" said I, seemin to know nothing of the matter, "did they murder the captain P"
"No." said he, "I do not nn erstnnd that they murdered him; but as they afterwards run away
with the shi , it is generally believed they betrayed him into the hands of the Malaccans, who
did murder him; and. perhaps, they roeurod them to do it." "Wh then," said 1. "they
deserved death.as much as if the had one it themselves." "Nay," sai the old man, "they do
deserve it; and the will certain y have it if the light upon any English or Dutch ship: for
they have all of together, that if they meet at rogue, they will giro him no quarter."

"But," said to him. "you say the pirate is glans out of these seas; how can the meet with
him then 9" "Why, that is true," said he, " ey do say so; but he was, as I tel you, in the ,
bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia. and was discovered t are by some Dutchmen, who helo
to the ship, and who were left on shore when they run away with her; and some English and
Dutch traders beingI in the river, they were within a little of taking him. Nay," saidhe, " if
the foremost boats sd been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him; but he,
findin only two boats within reach of him, tacked about, and. fired at these two, and disabled
them 'heiom the others came up; and then standing od' to sea, the others were not able to
follow him, and so he got away. But they have all so exact a description of the ship, that
they will be sure to know him; and wherever they find hiru,they have vowed to give no quarter
to either the captain or seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm."

"What l " said I, " will they execute them right or wrong; hang them first, and judge them
afterwards?" "0, Sir," said the old pilot. " there is no need of making a formal business of it
with such rogues as those; let them tie them back to back, and set them a diving; it is no
more than they richly deserve."

I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that he could do me no harm; so that I turned
short upon him: " Well now, Seignior," said I, " and this is the very reason why I would have
you carry us up to Nanquin, and not to put back to Macao, or to any other part of the country;
where the English or Dutch ships come; for. be it known to you, Seignior, those captains of
the English and Dutch ships are a reel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither how
what belongs to "entice. nor how to have themselves as the laws of God and nature direct;
but being prou of their olfiees, and not understanding their power, they would act the
murderers to punish robbers; would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry; and perhaps I may live to call some of them
to an account for it. where they me. he taught how justice is to be executed; and that no
m2: ought to he treated as a cnmi till some evidence may be had of the crime. and that he
la a man."

With this I told him, that this was the very ship th attacked; and vs him a full account
ofthe skirmish we had with their boats, and how foo 'shly and cow -like they behaved. I
told him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us. I told him
the mesons I had to believe that this story of killing the master by the Malaccans was true;
as also the running away with the ship; but that it was all a fiction of their own, to sug est
that the men were turned pirates; and they ought to have been sure it was so, before the ad
ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige as to resist them; adding, that they won] have
the blood of those men, who we killed there, in our "ust defence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation; an told us, we were very much in_ the rightist
go away to the north; and that if he might advise us, it should he to sell the shi in 'hina,
which we might very well do, and buy or build another in the country: and, said e, "though
you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and all your
goods back 'n to Bengal. or any where else.

I told him would take his adrice, when I came to any rt where I could find a. ship for my
turn, or get any customerto buy this. He replied, I sho d meet with customers enough for
the ship at Nauquin, and that a Chinese 'nnl: would serve me very well to go back again; and
that he would rocure me people both to ny one, and sell the other.

"Well, but, eignior," says I, "as you say they how the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental to hrin some honest. innocent men into a terrible broil,
and, perhaps, to be murdered in cold blood; or wherever they find the ship they Will prove
theguiltu thememb provingthiswastheshi ;sudsoiunoeeutmenina babl be
overpoweresgs-nd murdereti' " Why," says the old min, "I will- iind out a way figment tyhst
also; for as I know all those commanders you speak of very well. and shall see them all as they
gs by.Iwillbe sureto setthemtori hts in the thing,nnd let them know that theyhsd

nsomneh in the wrong; that thong the peoplewho were on board at first might run
away with the ship. yet it was not true that they had turned pirates; and that in particular
these were not the men that first went 0E with the ship. but Innocently bought her for their
trade: andIampersnadedtheywillsofarbelieve me,ss,atleest,toaotmore cautie for
the timete eome.' " Well," says I, "and will you deliver one musa'g'e tothem from me?" " es,
I will," says he, " if you will give it under your hand, in writing, at I may be able to prove
that it came from you, and not out of my own head." I answered, that I would readily y've
it himnndermyhand. SoItook a penand ink,and paper,andwmteatlnrgs the story of
assaulting me with the long-boats. &c.. the pretended reason of it, and the unjust cruel design
of it; and concluded to the commanders. that they had done what th not only should have
been ashamed of, but also, that if ever they came to England, and I 'ved to see them there,
libey 5231:1111 all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my country were not grown out of use before

nrriv t ere.

M old pilot read this over and over spin, and asked me several times if I would stand to
it. answered, I would stand to it as long as I had anything left in the world ; being sensible
that I should, one time or other, find an o portnnity to put it home to them. But we had no
occasion over to let the pilot carry this etter; for he never went back again. While those
things were passing between us, by way of discourse. we went forward directly for Nanquin,
3nd,,in about thirteen da s' sail, came to an anchor at the south-west point of the get gulf
oi Nnnquin; where, by a way, I came by accident to_understs.ud, that two Dutch 'ps were
gone that length before me, and that I should certainly tall into their hands. I consulted
my gartneragaia inthis ' cy,and hewas as much at a loss as I was, and would very
glad y have been safe on s are almost any where. However, I was not in such leaity
neither, but I asked the old ilotit there was no creek, or harbour, which I might 1) into.
and pursue my business wi the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the enemy? He
told me, if I would sail to the southward about two and forty leagues, there was a little part
called Qniuchang, where the fathereof the mission usually landed from Macao, on their progress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in ; and if
I thought to put in there, I might consider what further course to take when I was on shore.
He confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at some certain times
they had- kindofa fairthere,when thelme'rchants from Japan cameoverthithertohuy the
Chwduinmm. 'becktotln lace in. m. rt, hecalled u ' perhaps

e to o 's : snameo epo as i may, ,
sgell wron ; for Igdo not particuIarly remember it, having lost this, together with the names
many ot or places set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled h _the water, on an
accident which I shall relate in its order; but this I rememhsr,-that theC or Japanese
merchants we corresponded with call it b a difiering name from that which our Portuguese
pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above uinehang. As we were unanimous in our resolutions
to go to this place, we weighed the next day. havin only gone twice onshore. where we weueto
get freshwater; onhothwhich oocasionsthe pe of e opnntry wereveryoml to_us,and
brought us abundance of things to sell to as; mean of provisions, plants, roots. ten, nee, and
some fowls; but nothing without mono . . -

We came to the other port (the windheing contrary) not till five da ; but it wsssery much
to our satisfaction; and I was joyful, and, I may say, _thaukful. an I set my foot safe on
shore; resolving. and my partner too, that if it was possible to ' of ourselves andafiects
anyoiher way, tho h not av way to our satisfaction," wool never set one footna hard
that unhappy v more: an indeed, I must acknow . that of all the circumstances of
life that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes man d sooompletely miserable aathat
of being-in constant fear-u Well does the scripture say, "the fears! man-brags armory" it is
o-lifeo- death; and themind isso entirely suppressedbyitathetitisospsble ofnorehefplheanimal spirits sink, and all the vigour of nature. which usually supports men under other afllic.
tious, an is present to them in the greatest exi neies, fails t em here.

Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon a fancy, by heightening every danger; repre-
senting the English and Dutch captains to be men uneapable of hearing reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest men and rogues! or between a story calculated for our own turn, made
out of nothing. on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole voyage, progress
and design; or we might many ways have convinced any reasonable creature that we were
not pirates; the goods we had on board, the course we steered, our frankly showiu ourselves.
and entering into such and such ports; even our very manner, the force we bed, a number
of men, the few arms, little ammunition, and short provisions; all these would have served to
convince any man that we were no pirates. The opium, and other goods we had on board, would
make it appear the ship had been at Bengal; the Dutchmen, who, it was said, had the names
of all the men that was in the ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of English, Portu-
guese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These, and many other articular
circumstances, might have made it evident to the understanding of any oomman er, whose
hands we might fall into, that we were no pirates.

But let that be how it will, those were our apprehensions; and both my partner and I too.
smrce slept a night without dreaming of haltcrs and yard~arms; that is to say, 'bbcts; of
fighting, and being taken; of killing, and being killed; and one night I was in suc a fury in
my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen
down, that I struck my double fist against the side of the cabin I lay in, with such a force as
wounded my hand most grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, so that it
not onl wnkod me out of my sleep. but I was once afraid I should have lost two of my fingers.

Anot rer apprehension I had, was, of the cruel usage we might meet with from them, If we
fell into their hands: then the story of Amboyna came into in head, and how the Dutch
might, perhaps, torture us, as they did our countrymen there ; an make some of our men. b
extremity of torture, confess those crimes they never were guilty of ; on themselves, and a l
oi us, to be pirates; and so they would put us to death, wrth a formal appearance of justice;
and that they might be tempted to do this. for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was worth
four or five ousand pounds. put all together.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was, to brin us acquainted with three
missionary Romlsh priests, who were in town, and who had been t are some time, converting
the people to Christianity; but we thought they made but poor work of it; and made them
but sorry Christians when they had done. However, that was none of our business. One of
these was a Frenchman, who they called Father Simon; he was a jolly well>conditioned man,
very free in his conversation, not seeming so serious and grave as the other two did, one of
whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in
his manner, and very agreeable oompan ; the other two were more reserved, seemed rigid and.
austere, and up lied senously to the wor they came about, viz. to talk with and insinuate them-
selves among a inhabitants, wherever they had opportunity: we often ate and drunk with
those men: and though I must confess, the conversion. as they call it, of the Chinese to Chris-
tianity, is so far from the true conversion required to bring heathen people to the faith of
Christ, that it seems to amount to little more than letting them lrnow the name of Christ. and
say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they understand not,
and to cross themselves, and t e like; yet it must be confessed, that these religious, who we
call missionaries, have a firm belief that these ple shall be saved, and that they are the
intruments of it; and, on this account, they an e not the fatigue of the voyage, and the
hazards of living in such places, but oftentimes dent itself, with the most violent tortures, for
the sake of this work: an it would be a great want of charity in us, whatever opinion we have
of the work itself, and the manner of then- doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of
their zeal, who undertook it with so many hazards, and who have no prospect of the least fem.
poml advantage to themselves.

But, to return to my story :_ This French priest, father Simon, was a pointed. it seems, by
order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin. the royal seat of Chineu emperor;
and waited only for another priest who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along
with him; and we scarce ever met together, but he was inviting me to go that journey. '
me, how he would show me all the glorious thi at that mighty em ire; and among the rest,
the greatest sit in the world; a city, said he. t your London, and our Paris, put other,
cannot be e1 to. This was the city of Pekin, which. I confess, is very great, and ' 'tel
full of peop e; but as I looked on those things with did'erent eyes from other men, so I s
give my opinion of them in few words, when I come, in the course of my travels, to speak more
particularly of them.

But first, I come to my friar or missionary. Dining with him one day, and bei very merry
together, I showed some little inclination to go with him; and he pressed me an my partner
very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent. Why, father Simon, says my
gartner, why should you desire our company so much P You know we are heretics, and you

0 not love us, nor cannot lreep us compuy with any pl'easure. " 0 ! " says he, " you may,
perhaps, be good Catholics in time; my busineu here is to convert heathens; and who knows
at I may convert on too? " " Very well, father," said I, "so you will preach to us all the
way." " Iwill not troublesome to you." so he; " our religion does not divest us ofgeod
manners; besides." says he. " we are here li e countrymen; and so we are. compared to the
lace we are in: and it you are Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we may be all Chrishans at last;
at least," said he, " we are all gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being uneasy to one
another." I liked that part of his discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my
riest that I had left in the Brazile; but this father Simon did not come up to his character
By a great deal; for thou h father Simon had no appearance of a criminal lenty in him neither,
yet he had not that fun of Christi" 'an zeal, strict giety, and sincere afiection to religi' 'on. that
in other good ecclesiastic had. of whom I have sai so much.
utto leave him a little, though he never left us, nor soliciting us to go with him, bntwe
had something else before us at first; for we had, all this while. our ship and our merchandise
to dispose of; and we began to be very doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a
of v little business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, an the
city tiriNanquin: bnt Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought. than ever, to concern
itself in our afi'nir; and I was encouraged from this very time to think I should one way or
other, get out of this tangled circumstance, and be brought home to my own coun again;
though I had not the least view of the manner; and when I began sometimes to think of it,
could not imagine by what method it was to be done. Providence, I sag, began here to clear up
our way a little; and the first thing that ofi'ered was, that our old ortuguesemt brought
he." IKierchanttousnyihobegantoinqn'ireadwhntgoodf awe beheading: lacahe

u t our opium, an ve us a we price ori paying us in go y weig some
in lfilfll pieces of their own gin, and semi: in small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each.
While we were dealingnwith him for our opium, it come into my head that he might, perhaps,
deal with nsfor the s' too; andI ordered theinterpretertoprenose ittohim. Heshrunh
up his shoulders atit,w enitwasfirst proposedtohim; bnhinafewda softer, he came to
me. with one of the missionary Hints for his interpreter. and told me, had a to
make tome,aud thatwasthis; e had bought agreat gunfigofgoodsofusw en hehad
no thoughts or proposals made to him) of buying e ship; that, therefore. he had not
money enoug to pa for the ship; but iflwouldlet the same men who were in the ship
navigate her. he we (1 hiretlie shiptogotoJapen. and would sendthem from thence tothe
Phil: ins islands with another loading, which he would.pey the ht_of, before they went
fromg'gpan; and that, at their return, hewonldbnythe ship. I began hetento hispropeaal;
and so eager did my head still run in n mmblingsthatI conld not hot bean to entertain a
notion of going myself with him, so to sail in the Philip ins islands away to _ s
Seas; andaceordinglyI ashedlheJapaneseinerehant, ifhewo nothireustothePhili me
islands, and discharge us there. He said, no, he could not do that; for then he could not vs
the return of his ; but he would discharge us in Japan, he sud, at the ship's return.
Well, still I waster ' ghimatthat ponLandgoing myself: butmypartner.wiserthan
myself.pennsded mefrom it.represen ' thedangemaswelloftheleasasofthe-Tapaneee,

Q

 

4;
1
who are a false. cruel, and treacherous people; and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines;
more false. more cruel, and more treacherous than they.

But. to bring this long turn of our afiairs to a cone usion; the first thin we had fodo, was
to consult with the captain of the ship. and with his men, and know if _ ey were willi to

to Japan; and, wh e I was doing this. the young man. who. as I said. my nephew ad
git with me as my companion for in travels. came to me and told me, that he thought that
voyage romised very fair, and that t era was a great prospect of advantage. and he would be
very gln if I undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he would glean
a merchant. or how I pleased to order him; that if ever he came to_EngIaud. and I was 're,
ant} allive, he would render me a faithful account of his success, and it should be as much mine
as eased.

I wees really loth to part with him: but. consider-i the pros of advantage. which was
really considerable, and that he was a mu follow as 'kely to o well in it as any I knew. I
inclined to let him go; but first I told ' Igwould consult my partner, and give him an answer
the next day. My partner and I discoursed about it; and my partner made a most generous
ofier: he told me, " You know it has been an unlucky ship. and we both resolve not to go to
sea in it again; if your steward" (so he called in man) "will venture the voyage. I will eave
my share of the vessel to him, and let him make a best of it; and if we live to meet in England.
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the profits of the ship's
[relight to us, the other shall be his own."

my partner, who was no we concerned with my young man. made him such an ofi'er. I
could do no less than ofi'er him e some; and all the ship's company being williuito go with
him. we made over half the ship to him in propert . and took a writing from him. 0 liging him
to account for the other; and away he went to upon. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual honest man to him, protected him at Japan, and got him licence to come on shore.
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him his freight very punctually.
sent him to the Philippines. loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supermgo of their
own, who tradiclring with the Spaniards. bro ht back European goods again, and a t
quantity of cloves, and other spice; and thereufie was not only paid his freight very w and
at avery good rice, but being not willing to sell the ship then. the merchant furnished him
with oods on is own account; that for some money and some spices of his own, which he
broug t With him. hewent back to the Manillas, to the Spaniards. where he sold his cargo
very well. Here. having gotten a acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free
ship; and the governor of Manilla ired him to go to Ace uleo in America. on the coast of
Mexico; and gave him a licence to land there, and tra to Mexico; and to pass in any
Spanish ship to Europe, with all his men.

He made the vepiyfile to Acapulco ve happily, and there he sold his ship; and having
there also obtain owence to travel y land to Porto Bella, he found means, somehow or
other. to get to Jamaica. with all his treasure; and about eight years after came to En laud.
exceeding rich; of the which I shall take notice in its place; in the meantime, I return our
particular afiairs.

Being now to part with the ship, and ship's company. it came before us. of course, to consider
what recompense we should give to the two men that vo us such timely notice of the design
against us in the river of Cambodia. The truth was, ey had done us a considerable service.
and deserved well at our hands; though. by the way. the were a couple of rogues too; for.
as they believed the story of our beiu pirates, and that we really run away with the chi .
they came down_to us, not only to be ray the defi that was formed against us, but to go
sea with us as pirates; and one of them ooni afterwards. that nothing else but the hopes
of going a rogu brought him to do it. However, the service they did us was not the less:
an therefore. as had promised to be grateful to them, I first ordered the money to he paid
"mowhlch they said was due to them on heard their respective ships; that is to so ,the
Englishman nineteen months' y. and to the Dutchman seven; and over and above at, I
gave them each of them a smal sum of money in gold,and which contented them very well:
than I made the Enghshman gunnofin the ship. the gunnerheing now made second mate and
urser; 'theDutehman Imadehoauwain: soth werehothv well Mend roved
_ zerviceahle. being both able seamen. and merit PSellows. ery pl p "'1'

We were now on shore in China. If I ought myself banished, and remotebesn myown
count at Bengal, where I had many we to get home for in money, what could I think of
myss now. when I was tten about a ousand leagues oil from home, and perfectly
destitute of all manner prospect of return P

Allwe had for it was this: thatin aboutfourmonths'timethere wastobeanothsrfairfi
theflplnce where we were, and than we might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures
of a country. and withal m' ht possibly find some Chinese Smoke or veuels from To win.
that would he to be sold, an would carry us and our goods w 'ther we plmed. This I
very well, and resolved to wait; besides. as our particular persons were not obnoxious, so if any
English or Dutch ships came thither. perhaps we m' ht have an opportunity to lead our goods.
on get DIME: to some other lace in India nearer ome.

Upon theso Opes we resolv to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three
journeys into the country: first, we went ten days' 'onrney to see the city of Nanqnin. andn
city well worth seeing indeed: they say it has a. milk 'on of people in it; which, however. I do

not believe. It is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one another in
direct lines, which gives the figure of it great advantage ~

But when I come to compare the miserable peo ls of these counties with ours; their fabrics,
their manner of living, their government, their 'on. their weflth, and their glory (as some
call it). I must confess, I do not so much as think it is worth naming, or worth my while to
"in degf' degr "ghahhminwm ""71" 2'21. grunden the hes. the u:

tisv o rva ,t twowonera e r, ric m. eceremoniee.

the goverunyment, the manufactures, the commerce, and the conduct of 355mm; notthat
it is to be wondered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded; but because, having first a. true
notion of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness, and the ignorance that prevails there.
we do not expect to find any such things so far oil.

Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and buildings of Europe? What
their trnde to the universal commerce of England, Hollan . France, and Speinll Whatars
their cities to cure, for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel. rich furniture, end an infinite
variety? What are their ports, supplied with afew )nnhs and berks, to our na ' 'on,-our
merchant fleets, our lo and powerful naviesP Our cit of London has more than all
their ' hty empire. no English. or Dutch, or l'ren man-of-war of hzy guns, would
fight an destroy all the shipping of China. But the greatness of their Meg, . the
power of their government, and strength of their armies, is surprising to us, because, as I_ have
said. considering them as e box-barons nation of little better than savages, we didnot
expect such things among them; and this, ind is the advantage with which all their
greatness and wer is represented to as: otherwise. it is in itself no at all; for,_as I hdve
said of their 'pgwmeybesaidofthsirarmiesaud hoops; all the cross of their empire.
though they were to bring two millions of men into the field together, would he able-to do
nothing but ruin the country, and starve themselves. If they were to besiege a stro town in
Flsuders. or to light a disciplined army, one _line of German cur-assists, or of Fran cavalry,
would overthrow all the horse of China; a million of their foot could not stand before one sm-
hattled body of our infantry, ted so as not to be surrounded. though they were to be not one.
totwen in number: no , do not boast if I say. that 30,000 German orE heh footand
10,000 ranch horse, wo d fairly beat all the forces of China. And so of. our orhlied towns,
and of the art of our engineers, in assaulting and defending towns; there as not a forhfied town
in China could hold out one month ngainstthe batteries and m of an European army;
nndatthe samstimemllthearmiesof China copld never take such stownasDunhrk.&r:-y.
videdit wssnotsterved; no,notinatenyeers'swgs. Theyhnvefire--arms._rt1strue.hut
are awkward, clu , and uncertain in mg of; th have powder, but rt ll of no r
they hsve neither ' 'linoin thefiel exercise to err mshll to attack, ortempler to,
retreat: and therefore must confess it seemed strange to mewhen I come home, and eard
our people ssy such fine things of the power,.2nohe_s, glory, magnficencgiandttade of the,

Q

 

,\
l
Chinese, because I saw and knew that they were a contemptible horde or crowd of ignorant
sordid slaves. subjected to a vernment qualified only to rule such a people; and, in a word,
for I am now launched quite ids my design, I say, in a word, were not its distance incon-
ceivably great from Muscovy, and was not the Muscovito empire almost as rude, impotent,
and ill-governed a crowd of slaves as they, the our of Musoovy might. with much ease, drive
them al out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign; and had the czar. who I
since hear is a growing prince, and begins to a pear formidable In the world, fallen this w:y,
instead of attackrng the warlike Swedes, in whic attempt none of the powers of Europe we d
have envied or interrupted him, he might, by this time, have been emperor of China, instead of
bein beaten by the hag of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not one to six in number.
As eir strength and eir grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, and husbandry, is in r-
fect and impotent, wmspred to the same things in Europe. Also, in their know edge, '

learning, their skill in c sciences; they have globes and spheres, and a smatch of the know-
ledge o mathematics; but when on come to inquire into their lrnowl e, how short-sighted
are the wisest of their students! ey know nothing of the motion of the eavenly bodies; and.
so groesl , absurdly ignorant, that when the sun is eclipsed, they think it is a great dragon has
assaulted and run away with it; and they fall a clattenng with all the drums and kettles in the
country, to frighten the monster away, just as we do to hrve a swarm of bees.

As is is the on] excursion of this kind which I have made in all the account I have given
of my travels, so shall make no more descriptions of countries and people; it is none of m
business, or an pert of my design; but giving an account of my own advontures,throug
a life of inimi lc wanderings, and a long variet of changes, which, perhn s, few that come
alter me will have heard the like of, I shall the ore say ve little of all t e miiyhty places,
desert countries, and numerous people, I have yet to pass t rough, more than rc ates to in
own story, and. which my concern among them will make necessary. I was now, as near as
can compute, in the heart of China. about the latitude of thirty degrees north of the line, for
we were returned from Nanquiu; I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Pekiu, which I had
heard so much of, and father Simon importuucd me daily to do it. At length his time of
going away being set, and the other missionary, who was to go with him, being arrived from
Mecca, it was necessary that we should resolve either to 0. or not to go; so I referred him to
my partner, and left it wholly to his choice; who, at In , resolved it in the nfirmative; and
we prepared for our journey. We set out with very advantage as to finding the way; for
we got leave to travel in the retinas of one of their mandarins, a kind of Viceroy, or pnuc
magistrate, in the province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,travellrng
with great attendance. and with great hem o from the people, who are sometimes greatly im-
poverrshed b them, because all the countries ey gees through are obliged to furnish provrsions
for them. an all their attendants. That whic particularly observed, as to our travelling
with his baggage, was this; that thou h we received sufficient provisions, both for ourselves
and our horses, from the country, as be ongiug to the mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for
everythin we had after the market-price of the count , and the mandarin's steward, or com-
missary o 'the provisions. collected it duly from us; so at our travelling in the retinue of the
mandarin, though it was avery great kindness to us, was not such a mighty favour in him,
but was, indeed, a great advantage to him, considering there were above thirty other people
travelled in the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinuc, or. as we may call
it. under his convoy. This, I say. was a great advantage to him; for the country furnished
all the provisions for notlrin , and he took all our money for them.

We were fivcmnd-twenty a travelling to Pekin, through a country infinitely po ulous, but
miserably cultivated; the has ndry, the economy, and e way of living, miserab e; thou h
the boost somuch of the industry of the people: I say .miserable; and so it is; if we, w 0
un crstand how to live, were to endure it, or to compare it with our own; but not so to these

r wretchee, who know no other. The pride of these mic is infinitely grant, and exceeded
hippthing but their povert , which adds to that which their misery. And I must needs
t ' the naked savages 0 America live much more hap y, because, as they have nothing, so
they desire nothing; whereas these are proud and insoleni: and, in the main, are mere beggars
and drudges; their ostentation is. inerpressible, and is chiefly showed in their clothes and.
buildings,'and in the keeping mulhtudes of servants or slaves, and, which is to the last degree
ridiculous, their contempt a all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards, in the deserts and vast wildernessee
of Grand Tartary, than here; and yet the roads here arewell paved, and well kept, andvery
convenient for travellers; but nothi was more awkward to me, than to see such a haughty,
imperious, insolent people. in the ' t of the grosmt simplicity and ignorance; for all their
famed. ingenuity is no more. And my friend. father Simon, and I, used to be very merry upon
these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of these people; for example, coming by the house of
a coon gentleman, as father Simon called him, about ten leagues 05' of the cit of Nanquin,
we had, t of all, the honour to ride with the master of the house about two miles; the state
he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty.

'The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a sceramonch, or merry-Andrew, being a
dirty calico, with all the tawdry and tradpping of a fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tussle,
and cuts and slashes almost on every si o; it covered a tafiety vest, as greasy as a butcher, and
which testified, that his honour must needs be a most exquisite eleven.

His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as in England might sell for
about thirty or forty shillings; and. he had two slaves followed him on foot, to dnve the
creature along; he had awhrp in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast aboutthe
as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve servants;
and we were told he was going from the city to his country seat, about half a league before us.
We travelled on geutl , but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as we stopped
at a village about all our to refresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great men,
we saw him in a little place before his door, eating his re t; it was a lnnd of a garden,
buthewas eaeytobe seen; andwe weregiventounderstan thatthemore we lookedonhim,
the better he would be pleased.

He set under a tree, something like the lmetto-tree, which effectually shaded him over the
head, and on the south side; but under a tree also was placed a large umbrella, which made
that part loolr well enough; he sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy ulent
man. and hie meat being brought him by two women slaves; he had two more, whose o I
think, few ntlemeu in Europe would accept of their service in, viz., one fed the uirs with
a spoon, a the other held the dish with one hand, and scraped off what he let fa upon his
worship'e beard and tafiety vest; while the great fat brute thought it below him to employ his
own hands in any of those familiar oflioes which kings and monarchs would rather do than be
troubled with the clumsy fin is of their servants.

I took this time to think w at ' men's pride puts them to, and how troublesomeshangh
tem ,thus ill-managed,must tea man of common "use; and,leenng thepoor ..
to ease himself with our looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereaswe really pitied
and) contemned him, we pursued our journey; only father Simon had the "Milli" stay to
inform himself whatdainfiostheoonntryjuficehadtofeedominell hisstate- w ch hosard
he had the honour to taste of, and which was, I think, a dose that an English hound would
searcehave eaten. if it had been ofiered him, viz., a mess of boiled'rics. with a great pleceof
garlick in it. and a little bag filled with fien pep r, and another plant which they have there,
somethinglikeour ' , utemelling 'emua,andtaetinghkemust_ard;sllthrswaeput
together, and a s "gimp or piece of lean mutton boiled in it. And this was his worship'a

est. four or five servants more attending at a distance. 2ft he fed them meaner than he was
as himself, the spice excepted. they must fare very coarsely indeed. . .

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled,_he was respected like a hug; surrounded
always with his gentlemen. and attended in all his agip'etarancee with such pomp. that I_saw
littleofhimbutatadistsncs;butthisIobserved, therewunotahorsernhrsretrnne,
but that our can-isrs' peek-horses in England seemed to me _to look much better; but they were
so covered with equipage, mantles, trappings, and such like trumpery. that you cannot see
whether theyarefatorleau. Inaword, we could see scarce anythmgbuttheirfeeturdt-hesr
I was now lighthearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I have given an account of
bein over, I had no anxious thoughts about me, which made this journey the leassuter to me;
nor I an ill accident attended me, only in the passing or fordin a a river, my horse
fell,audmadimefreooitheoonn ,as th callit; that is to say,t rewme in. The late
was not deep, but it wetted me over. mention it, because it iled my pocket- k,
wherein I had set down the names of several ple and laces w ' h I had occasion to
remember, and which not taking due care of, the eaves ro . and the words were never after
to he read, to my great loss, as to the names ofsome places I touched at in this voyage.

At length we arrived at Pekin; I had nobody with me but the youth. whom my nephew
the captain had 'ven me to attend me as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent,
and my_ partner nobody with him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portu-
guese pilot, he being desirous to see the Court, we gave him his passage. that is to say, bore his
charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood the language of
the country, and spoke good French and a little English; and. indeed, this old man was a
most usefu implement to us eve here, for we had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing: "Ah! Seignior gloss," says he, "I have somethin to tell you, will make
your heart glad." "My heart glad . says I. " What can that be? do not know anything
in this country can either give me joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes," said the 01
man, in broken English; " make you glad, me sorrow;' sorry. e would have said. This made
me more inquisitive "Why," said I, "will it make on sorry '1" "Because," said he. "you
have brought me here twenty-live days' journey, an will leave me to go back alone; and
which we shall I get to my port afterwards, without a ship. without a horse, without pecans P"
Soho ed money; being his broken Lah'n, of which he had abundance to make us merry with.

In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Mnsoovite and Polish merchants in the
city. and they were preparing to set out on their journey, by land, to Mnsoovy, within four or
five weeks, and he was sure we would take the opportuuit to go with them, and leave him
behindto back all alone. I confess I was surpnsedwith is news; a seotetjo spreaditself
over my w ole soul, which I cannot describe, and never felt before or since; and had no wer
for a good while to speak a word to the old man; but at last I turned to him: " How you
know this?" said I, "are you sure it is true P" "Yes," says he, "I met this morning, in the
street, an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one you call a. Grecian, who is among
them; he came last from Astracsu, and was designing to go to Touquin, where I formerly knew
him,buthas altered hismind,and is now resoved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and
so down the river Wolga to Astracan." "Well, Seiguior." says I, " do not he uneasy about
being left to go back alone; if this be a method for my return to England, it shall be your
fault if yon go back to Macao at al ." We then went to consulting together what was to he
done, and I asked mfiy partner what he thought of the pilot's news. and whether it would suit
with his afinirs. e told me he would do just as I would, for he had settled all his afiaire so
well at Bengal, and lefthis efiects in such good hands, that as we had made a voyage
here, if he could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth 0 e,
he would '31,"an to go to England, and then make his voyage hack to Bengal by e
com 's '

vizg resofi'ed upon this, we , that if our Portugal pilot would go with us, we would
hear his charges to Moscow, or to n lend, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed
over generous in that neither, ' we had not rewarded him further, for the service he had
done us was really we all that and more, for he had not only been a pilot to us at see, but
he had been like a broker for us on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant, was
some hundreds of pounds in our ket. So we consulted together about it; and being willin
to ' him, whlch was. indeodlmht doing him 'ustice,and very willing also to have imwi
us 'des, for he was a. most necuury man on owesions, we agreed to give him a quantity
of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about 175 pounds sterling between us, and to
bearallhis es, both for himself and horse, except onl ahorsetooarry his goods.
- Having settl this among ourselves, we called him to at him know what we had resolved.
Itold him he had complained of onrheing to let him go back alone,andeas nowjo tell
him we were resolved he should not go back at all; that aswe'had resolvsdto go to Europevwith
tbecsravamweresolvedalso heahould with us, andthatweoalled him tekuowhismind.
He shook his head, and said items a ong journey, and he had no "pecans" to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told him we believed it was- so, and
therefore we had resolvedto do something for him, thatehould let him see how sensible we were
oftbesemce hehaddonens; audaleohow agreeablehe wastons. .Andthen Iteldhimwhat
we had resolved to 've him here, which he might lay out as we would do our own ; and that,
asforhischargee, ' hewould gowith us we would set him sate ashore (life and casualties
gcepted) eithgrhii: Musccvy or England, whichever he would, at our own charge, except only

e carnage o goods.

Hencewedtbcprepoefllikeamantra andteldushe-wonld withusoverthe
whole world; and so. in short. we all re ourselves for the journey. owever, as it was
withns,sortwuswiththeotber ants.theyhndman thingstodo;andinsteadoPSbeing
ready in five weeks, it was four months and some odd days before all ' were got together.

It was the beginningof Febrm our style, when we set out from P ' My partner and
theold ilotln goneegxess tethsportwherewehedfirstputin.tedrsposeofsome
goods w 'cb we had left ere; and I. with a Chinese merchant, who I had some know]
of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on his own aflaire, went toNauqnin, where I bong t
ninety pieces of fine damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silks. 0! several
sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these brought to Pekin against my partner's return:
besides this we bought a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other ; our
amounting, in these only. to about three thousand five hundred poun sterling, .7353:
together with tea as some line calicoes, and three oamels' loads of nntrnegs and cloves, loaded
in all eighteen camels for our share, baddes those we rode aw; which, with two or three spare
horses, anti: two horses loaded with provisions, made us, in rt, twenty-six camels and horses
in our re us.

The company was ve'ry'sreat. and, as near as I can remember, made between three and four
hundred horse. and u of a hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided to:
all events. For,as eeasterucaravanearesubject to be afloakedbytheArabsuoarethess
Ethe Tartan; but they assnot altogetherso dangerous as thevArebs, nor so barbarous when

e marl.

(at: company consisted of people of several nations. such as, Musoovitee chiefly; for there
were above sixty of them who were merchants or inhabitants ofMoseow, the h of them some
were Livoniaus; and, to our particular aatiefaefion. five of them were Scots. w appearedalso .
to be men of great ex rience in business, and men of very good substance.

When we had trove ed one day's journey, the guides. who were live in number, called all the
gentlemen and merchants; that is to say, all the except the ssrvaub. to a great
council, as they called it. At this great council every one 'teda certain quantity of money
to a common stock, for the necessary expense 0! uying forage on the we . where it was not
otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides. getting horses. and the li eh And herethe
constituted the journey, as they called it, viz. They named captains and oficers to draw as
u ,andgivetbe command in case ofanattachmnd gave every one theirturnof command.

orwssthis founiugus into order any more thanwhatwe found needful uponthsway. as shall
be observed in its place. . .

Themfiallonthisaideof the conntryisvsry populous, and is full of potters and-earth-
mekers: that is to say, people that tempered the earth for the China were; and,astas
coming along, our Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to say to make us
merry. came sneeringto me, and told me. he would show the greatest rarity In the country;
and that I should have this to say of China. alter all the ill-humonred' things I had sends! it,
thatIhadseenonetbingwhichwasnottobeseenin alltheworld beside. Iwasveryimpor-
tuuatete know what it was; at last he told me. it wesa gentleman's housdbuiltallwrthphrna
ware. "Well." says I. "are not the materials of their buildin the product ofltheir-own
country; and soitissll Chinawareisitnotl'" "No, so." says '!I_meanit is ahouseall
made of China were snehas youcallitinEngland; or,ssitis called in onrcountrymome-
lain." " Well." says I, " each a thing may be. How big is it P Can we carry it in a box
upon a camel 1' If we can, we will buy it.' " Upon a camel 1" says the old pilot, holding up
both his hands, " why there is a fami y of thirty people lives in it.'

I was then carious, indeed, to see it; and when I came to it, it was nothin but this: it was
a timber house, or a house built, as we call it in England, with lath and p aster, but all the

mastering was really China ware, that is to say. it was plastered with the earth that makes
ma ware.

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed. and looked very well, perfect white.
and painted with blue figures. as the large China were in England is pain , and hard, as if
it had been burnt. As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were lined u with
hardened and painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call gally tiles in England, al made
of the finest C ins, and the figures exceeding fine indeed. with extraordina variety of colours,
mixed with gold, many tiles making but one figure. but joined so artificial y, the mortar being
made of the same earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors of the
rooms wore of the same com sition, and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use in several
parts of England, especially incolnshim, Nottinghamshirc. Leicestershire. doc. as hard as stone,
and smooth, but not burnt. and painted, except some smaller rooms, like closets, which were
all, as it were, pavcd with the same tile; the ceilings, and in a word, all the plastering-work in
the whole house, were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered with tiles of the
some. but of a deep shinin black.

This was a China ware ouso indeed. truly and literally to be called so; and, had I not been
n u the journey, I could have stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it.

cy told me there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved at the bottom and
sides with the same, and fine statues set up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of tho porce-
lain earth, and burnt whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they ma be allowed to excel in it; but I am
very sure they excel in their accounts of it; for they to me such incredible things of their
performance In crockery-ware, for such it is, that I care not to relate, as knowing it could not
be true--They told me. in particular, of one workman that madsa ship, with all its tackle. and
masts. and souls. in earthenware. big enough to carry fifty men. If he had told me he launched
it. and made a voyage to Japan in It. I might have said something to it indeed; but as it was,
I knew the whole of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the word, that the fellow
lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to it.

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the leader of it for the day
fined me about the value of three shillings: and told me, if it had been three days' journey
without the wall, as it was three days' within, he must have lined me four times as much,
and made me ask [pardon the next council day: so I promised to be more orderly; for. indeed,
I found afterwar the orders made for keeping all together were absolutely necessary for our
common safety.

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a fortification against the Tartan
and a very great work it is, going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the
rocks are impassable, and the prcci ices such as no enem could possibly enter, or, indeed,
climb up, or where, if the did, no wfil could hinder them. ey tell us. its length is near a
thousand English miles; at that the country is five hundred, in a straight measured line, which
the wall bounds, without measurin the windings and turnings it takes : it is about four fathom
hi h. and as man thick in some places.

stood still an our, or thereabonts, without trcspassin on our orders, for so long the caravan

was in passing the gate; I say, I stood still an hour to loo at it, on every side, near, and far- ofl'.

I mean, that was within my view; and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for

the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most

'excellent thing to keep oi? the Tartan, which he ha pened not to understand as I meant it, and
sotook it for a eomphment: but the old ilot laug ed. " 0 Sei 'or In less." says he, " you

speak in colours." " In colours !" says , " what do you mean y that " " Why you
what looks white this way, and black that way; gay one way, and dull another way; you tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars: you tell me, by that, it is good for nothing but to
keep out Tartan; or, will keep out none but Tartar-s. I understand you. Seiguior Inglese, I
on erstaud you," says he; " but Seignior Chinese understood you his own way.'

." Well," says I, " Seigniorwdo you think it would stand out an army of our counvtrvy lo,
with a good train of artillery; or our engineers, with two companies of miners? 05d not
they batter it down in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow it u in the air,
foundation and all, that there should be no si n of it. left P" "Ay, ay," says he, " I ow that."
The Chinese wanted mightily to know what said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days
after, for we was then almost out of their country, and he was to leave us in a little time after-
ward; but when he knew what I had said,he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard
no more of his fine story of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed.

After we had passed this mighty nothing. called a wall, something like the Picts' wall. and
so famous in Northumberland, and built by the Roi-vans, we began to find the country thinly
inhabited, and the people rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities. as being subject
to the inroads and depredations of the Tartnrs, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not
to be resisted b the naked inhabitants of an omen country.

And here I E3" to find the necessity of eeping together in a caravan, as we travelled:
for we saw seve troops of Tartars rovin about; but when I came to see them distinctly. I
wondered more that the Chinese empire con 6. be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for
they are a more horde or crowd of wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no disci-
pline. or manner of fight.

Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught nothing, and fit for nothing; and this
we said the first da we saw them. which was aRer we entered the wilder part of the country.
Our lower for the y gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it; and
what was this but hunting of sheep! However, it may be called huntin too; for the creatures
are the wildest, and swiftost of foot. that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a
great way. and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase; for they agipear generally
thirty or forty in a flock. and, like true sheep, always keep together when they y.

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with about forty Tartan.
Whot er they were hunting mutton as we were. or whether they looked for another kind of prey,
I know not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of a horn very loud, but with
a barbarous sound that I had never heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear again.
We all supposed this was to call their friends about them; and so it was: for in lea than half
a quarter of an hour, a troop of forty or fifty more appeared at about a mile dietanm; but our
work was over first, as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow hap ned to be amongst us; and as soon-as he heard
the born, he told us, in short, that we had no 'n to do but to charge them immediately, with-
out less of time; and, drawing us up in a line, e asked, If we were resolved? We told him.
We were ready to follow him; so he rode directly up to them. The stood ' at us, like a
mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showing the face of any 0 er at ; but as soon as
they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows; which, however, missed us very happily. It.
seems they mistook not their uim,but their distance; for their arrows all fell a little short ed us,
but with so true an aim, that had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several
men wounded, it not killed.

Immediately we halted; and though it was at a great distance,_we fired, and sent them leaden
bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, to tall in among them sword in hand;
forsoourbold Scotthatled us directed. Hewas,indeed,butamerchant. buthsbehnvedwith
that vigour and bravery on this occasion, and yet with such a cool courage too, that I never saw
anymauiusotionfitterforoommsnd. As aoonasweosmeuptothem,_ws firsdourpistolsin
their faces, and then drew; but they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable the only
anyofthemmads wasonomfighnwhemthmofthemshodmdbymgnaoalledthe
come back to them. having a kind of seymitar in their hands, and'their bows he:an at
backs. Our brave commander, without asking any body to follow him, . ps.up . one to
andwithhisfusilknocksoneot themofi'hishomkilled the second with his pistohand

egigi
third'ran away : and thus ended our fight; but we had this misfortune attending it. viz. That
all our mutton that we had in chase t away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but, as for
the Tartars. there was about five of t em killed; who were wounded, we lrnew not: but this we
knew, that the other party was so frightened with the noise of our guns, that they made off
and never made any attempt upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the 'l'urtars were not so bold
as afterwards; but in about five days we entered a vast great wild desert. which held as three
days' and nights' march: and we were obliged to carry our water with us in great leather
bottles. and to encamp all night. just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.

I asked whose dominion this was in? and they told me this was a kind of border that might
be called No Man's Land; being a part of the Great Karskathy. or Grand Tartary; but that,
however, it was all reckoned to China; but that there was no cars talrea here to preserve it from
the inroads of. thieves; and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the whole world,
though we were to go over some much la r.

In passing this wilderness. which, I oo ass. was at the first very frightful to me, we saw two
or three times little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to
have no design upon us; and so, like the man who met the devil, it they had nothing to say to
as, we had nothing to say to them; we let them go.

Once. however, a part of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it was to
consider what they shoe d do. whether attack us, or not attack us, that we knew not: but when
we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-guard of forty men, and stood ready
for them, letting the caravan sass half a mile, or thereubouts. before us. But after a while they
marched elf, on y we found 0y saluted us with five arrows at their parting; one of whic
wounded a horse, so that it (1' led him; and we left him the next day, poor creature. in great
need of a good farricr. We suppose they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of
us: but we saw no more arrows, or antars, that time.

We travelled near a mouth after this, the ways being not so good as at first, though still in
the dominions of the Emperor of China; but In , for t 0 most part. in villages, some of which
were fortified. because of the incursions of the 'Fartars. When we came to one of these town
(it was about two days and a half journey before we were to come to the city Naum), I wanted
to buy a camel. of which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road. and of horses
also, such as they are. because so many caravans coming that way, they are very often wanted.
The person that I spoke to to get me a. camel. would have gone and fetched it for me: but I .
like a fool. must be officious, and go myself along with him. The place was about two miles out
of the village, where, it seems. they kept the camels and horses feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot. being very desirous for-sooth, of a. little variety. When
we came to the place, it was a low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry.
without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the
door. Having bought a camel. and agreed for the price, I came away: and the Chinese man
that went with me ed the camel, when on a sudden came up five Tartars on horseback; two
of them seized the fellow. and tool: the camel from him. while other three stepped up to me and
my] old pilot; seeing as. as it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword,
w 'eh could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped short
upon my drawing my sword (for the are errant cowards); but a second com' upon at left,
gave me a blow on the head, whi I never felt till afterwards. and wondeig, when came
to myself, what was the matter with me. and where I was, for he'leid me flat on the ground;
but In never-failia cld pilot, the Portuguese (so Providence, unloohed for. directs delivernnees
from gore whic to us are unforeseen). had a pistol in his pocket. which I knew nothing of.
nor the 'l'artars neither; if they had. I suppose they would not have attached as; but cowards
are always boldest when there is no danger.

The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart step n'pote the follow that had-struck me.
and laying hold of his arm with one hand. and pulling in wn by main force a little towards
himwith the other. he shot him into the head, and laid him dead upon the spot: he then imme-
diately stepped up to him who had stopped as, as I said, and before he could come forward
again (for it was all done_neit were in o moment) made e blow st'him with a seymilnr, which
he always wore, but missing the men, out his horse into the side of his head, out one of his ears
oflby eroot, andsgroatslicedown the sidsof hisfsce. The poor beast. enraged withths
wound, was no more to be governed by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough too; but
away he flew, end carried him quits out of the ilot's reach: and It some distance, rising up
upon his hind I threw down the 'l'artor. and ell upon him.

In this interv the fir Chm' ese came in, who had lost the comel, but he had no weapon;
however, use]?! fthemod ar downflarfidhii'; mmdtuen upon hilill'r' he run]; to him, and serzin
upon on y - svo weapon e ' si somethin ' e a are, at not a le-
aro neith'feg, he wrenched it from him. and made shift to knogk his 15am brains outwith
it. Butmy old man had the third Tartar to deal with still; and. see' hedid notfly as he
expected. nor come on to fight him. as he apprehended, but stand stock 3311, the old man stood
at: I too, and falls to work with his tackle to charge his pistol a ' : but as soon as the Tartar
saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to be the some or en , I know not; but away he
scoured, and left my pilot. my champion I called him afterward, I. complete victory.

By this time I was s httle awake ; for Ithought. when I first began to awake, thstI had been
in a. sweet slog); but, as I said above, I wondered where I was. how I came 1: the ground.
and what was e matter; in a word, a few moments after. as sense returned, I :3?de ng
I did not know where; I cls ped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I felt my
head ache; and then, in one er moment, memory returned. and everything was present to me
"83""- -

I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, but no enemies in view. I
found a Tartar 'e deed. and his horse standingvery quietly by him; and baking furtherJ
saw my champion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming heel:
with his hanger in his hand. The old man, seeing me on my feet, come running tome. end
embraced me with s great ded of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt; but it wes not much. only what we call a broken heed; neither
did I afterwards find an great inconvenience from the blow. other thanthe place which was
hurt. and which was we ' in two or three days.

We made no great gain, owever. by this victory; for we lost a camel. and ' ed a' horse :
but that which was remarkable, when we came back to the village. the man amended to be
paid for the camel; I disputed it. and it was brought to n hearihg before the Chinese judge of
the place; that is to say. in English, we went before a justice of the peace. Give him his due,
he acted with agreat deol of prudence and impartiality; and having heard both sides, he lgravely
asked the Chinese mun that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was. " am no
servant," says he. " but went with the stranger.' " At whose request? " says the 'ush'oe. " At
the stranger's request." says he. " Why then," said the justice, " you were t e ahpnger'e
figment for the time; and the camel being delivered to his servant. It wns delivered to him, and

must or it."

lconfepetythe thin was so clear, that I had not a. word to say; but admirin toseeeuch
just reasoning I: n e consequence, and so accurate stating the cause. I paid wr ingly for the
camel, and sent or another; but you may observe, I sent for it; I did not go to fetch it myself
an more;IhadenonghotthsPS' _ . . p .

city ostum is n frontierof the Chinese em ire: th celled itfortrfied! and sortrs, as
fortificstions go there; for this I will venture to rm. the all the Tsrtprs 1n Knrakathay,
which, I believe. are some millions. could not better down the walls with their bows and arrows;
but to guilt it strong, if it were attacked with cannon, would he to nuke those who understand
it on. ' ' '

Wanda-u Ihsve said, above two do s' journey of this city. when messengers were sent
erpresstoeverypertoftherosd,totell travellersandceravnnstohalttrlltheyhsds
guard sent for "1deg31 _; for that gusmfigl body of Tamra.- making 10,000 in all, had appeared
m e m . shun miles on e: . . . , .

This 'wds very bndrtdews to travellers; however, itwss carefullydone of the governorgund
we were very glad to hear we should have a guard. Accordingly. two days after, we had 200
soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and 300 more from the city of Nauru,
and with those we advanced boldly ; the 300 soldiers from Naam marched in our front. the 200
in our rear. and our men on each side of our camels with our baggage. and the whole caravan
in the centre: in this order. and well [luggamd for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the
whole 10.000 Mongol 'l'artars. if they appeared; but the next day, when they did appear.
it was quite another thing.

It was early in the morning, when marching from a little well-situated town. called Change.
we had a river to luau. where we were obligm to ferry; and had the 'l'urtars had any intelli-
gence. then had been the time to have attacked-us, when, the caravan being over, the rear-guard
was behind; but they did not appear.

About three hours after. when we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen
miles over. behold. by a cloud of dust they raised. we saw an enemy was at hand; and they
were at hand indeed. for they came on upon the spur. '

The Chinese, our guard on the front. who had talked so big the day before. began to stagger.
and the soldiers frequently looked behind them; which is a certain sign in aseldier. that he
is just read to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and beiu near me he called out,
" Seignior Inglese." says be, "those fellows must be encoura . or t :y will rain as all; for
if the 'l'urturs come on, the will never stand it." " I am of; your min ," said I: "but what
course must be done?" " one." said he; " let fifty of our men advance. and flank them on
each wing. and encourage them, and they will fight like bravo fellows in brave company; but
without, they will every man turn his back." Immediately I rode up to our leader, and told
him. who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right "36% and
fifty to the left, and the rest madoa line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last man
to make another body by themseli'es. and to guard the camels: only that, if need were, they
should send a hundred men to assist the last fifty.

In a word. the 'l'artars came on. and an innumerable company they were; how man , we
could not tell, but 10,000 we thought was the least. A party of them came on first. and Viewed
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and as we found them within gan-
shot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance swiftly. and give them a salvo on each wing
with their shot. which was done; but the went elf, and I suppose back to give an account of
the reception they were like to meet wit ; and, indeed. that salute clogged their stomachs;
for they immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it, and, wheeling all to the left, they
save over the design. and said no more to us for that time: which was very agreeable to our
circumstances, which were but very indifihrent for a battle with such a. number.

Two days after this we came to the city of Nana, or Noam. We thanked the governor for
his care for us, and collected to the value of 100 crowns, er thereabonts. which we gave to the
soldiers sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed. and there
were 900 soldiers kept here; but the reason of it was, that formerly the hfuscovite frontiers lay
nearer to them than they do new. the Mascovites havin abandoned that part of the country
(which lies from this city west. for about 200 miles) as esolato and unfit for use; and more
especially. being so very remote. and so diflicnlt to send troops thither for its defence; for we
had yet above 2000 miles to Muscovy. properly socallsd.

After this we passed several great rivers. and two dreadful deserts, one of which we were six-
teen da s lmssing ever. and which, as I laid, waste be called No Man's Land; and on the 13th
of Apri , we came to the frontiers of the Mascovite dominions. I think the first city. or town.
or fortress, whatever it mi ht be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called
Argon, being on the west si of the river Argon.

. could not but discover an infinite satisfaction, that I was so soon arrived in. as I called
it, a Christian country; or. at least. in a country governed by Christians; for though the Mas-
coviles do. in my opinion. but just deserve the name of Christians (yet such they pretend to he.

name of God and of a Redeemer
Is known, wo 'pped, and ado --s.nd not where the people, given up by Heaven to strong
delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to stocks and stones; worship monsters,
elements. horrible-shaped animals, and statues, or images of monsters. Not a town or ci
we passed through but had. their pagoda. their idols, and their temples; and ignorant peo
worshipping even the works of their own hands!

Now we came where, at least, a. face 0! the Christian worship appeared, where the knee was
bowed to Jesus; and whether ignorantly or not. yet the 0 ' ' re igion was owned, and the
name of the true God was called upon and adored; and it made the very recesses of m soul
r301" to see it. I saluted the brave Seoteh merchant I mentioned above, with my firatae -
l gment of this; and,an himhythe hand, I said to him, "Blessed be God,weere once
again come among Christians " He smiled, and answered, " Do not rejoice too soon, country-
man ; these Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians; end but for the name of it, you
may see very little of the substance for some months farther of our journs ."

"Well," says I, " but still it is betterthnn paganism and worshipping devils." "Why, I'll
tell you," says he; " except the Russian soldiers in ganisons, and a. few of the inhabitants of
the cities upon the road. all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles further, is
Inhabited by the worst and most i orant of pagans :" and so indeed we found it.

We were now launched into e test piece of solid earth, if I understand anything of
the surface of the globe, that is to found In any part of the earth: we had at lem 1200
miles to the see, eastward; we had at lent 2000 to the bottom of the Baltic sea, westward;
and above 8000 miles, if we lefi. that see, and went on west. tothe British and French channels;
we had full 5000 miles to the Indian or Persian see, south: and about 800 miles to the frozen
sou, north: nay, if some people may be believed, there might be no sea north-east till we came
round the pole, and conse uently rate the north-west, and so had a continent of land into
America, the Lord knows w ere; though 1 could give some reasons why I believe that to be a
mists e.

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions. a good while before we came to any considerable
towns, we had nothin to observe there but this: first, that all the rivers run to the east; as
I understood by the o arts which some in our caravan had with them. it was plain all those
rivers run into the great river Yamour, or Gammour. This river, by the natural course of it,
must run into the east sea, or Chinese ocean. The story they tell as, that the mouth of this
river is choked n with bnlrushes of a monstrous growth, via. three foot about, and twenty or
thirt foot high, must be allowed to se. , I believe nothing of; but as its navigation is o no
use. use there is no trade that way, e Tartar-s, to whom alone it belongs, dealingin nothing
but cattle; so nobody that ever I heard of, has been curious euoa h either to go down to the

' mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth of itin ships; at this is certain, thatthis
river running due east, in the latitude of sixw, carries a vest concourse of nvers along
with it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in t ti do; cows are sure ofsea there.

Some le es to the northof this river there are several considerable rivers, whose streams ran
as due noratgn as the Yamour runs east; and these are all found to 10m their waters with the

rent river Tartarus. named so from the northernmost nations of the Mongul Tutors, who, the
hinese sa , werethe first'l'artars intheworld; aadwho, as our geographers alleges" the
G and agog mentioned in sacred story. . '
hese rivers running all northward. as well as all the other rivers I am yet to of. make
it evident that the northern ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that .'t see not seem
rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself to join with America on that side,
or that there is not a oommunieau'on between the northern and the eastern ocean; but of this
I shall so. no more; it was my observation atthattime,s.nd thereforeItake notaceohtinthrs
place. a new advanced from the river Arguna hgnzasy and modarateyourneys, end were yery
visibly obliged to the care the Car at Muscovy taken to have atlas and towns built In as
many places as are possible to them, where his soldiers keep garrison. something like the
stationary soldiers placed by e Romans in the remoteet countries of their empire, someof
which I hsdreedparficnlarlywereplaeed in Britain forthe mean of commeres,mdforths
lodging travellers: and thus itwes here; re- whersver we came, .ough'et thsufiewns and
stations, the gerrisons and governor were Russian-end pmiusedObruhanayet the inhabitants254 7 7!: Lift: and A dvmturu of Robilmm Cram:

ol' the country were more pagans, sacrificing to idols. and worshipping the sun. moon. and stars.
or all the host of heaven; and not only so. but were. of all the heathcns and pagans that ever I
met witbhtlse most barbarous, except only that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of
America i .

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna. where we enter the Mus-
covito dominions. and a cit of 'l'nrtars and Russians together called Nertziuska'v; in which is
It continued desert or fore . which cost us twent days to travel over it. In o Village. near the
lost of those plneos. I hnd the curiosity to goon see their way ot'living: which is most brutislr
end insut'l'emblo: they hnd, I suppose. a great sacrifice that day : for there stood out upon an
old stump of n tree, an idol mode of wood. t'ri httnl es the deVIl: at least as anything we can
think of to represent the devil can be mode. t had a bend certainly not so much as resembling
uny crentum thnt the world ever saw; euro as big on gcots' horns. end as high; eyes as big as
u crown piece: a nose like It crooked rom's horn. end is mouth extended four-cornered, like that
of n lion. with horrible teeth. hooked like u. parrot's under bill. It wss dressed up in the tilthisst
runnner thnt you could so um; its I: per garment was of sheepskins, with the wool outward;
n great '.l'urtnr bonnet on t to bend. wit two horns growing through it: it was about eight foot
hi h. yet had no feet or legs. or nny other proportion of 1mm.

fi'his scnrecrow wns set up at the outer side of the village; and when I came nsarto it.
there were sixteen or seventeen creatures. whether men or women I could not tell. for the
nrnko no distinction by their habits. either of body or head; these lay nll tlnt on the green .
round this fonniduhle block of shnpelezm wood. I saw no motion nmcng them an more than if
they hud been nll logs of wood like the idol: and nt first molly thought they he been so: but
when l more is little nenrer, they stnrtod up "sou their feet; and reused nhowling cry. as it it
bud been so runny deep-ruonthed hounds. nn wulkcd away no it they were displeused at our
disturbing them. A little wny oil' from the island. und nt the door 0 thnt tent or but. made
all of sheep-skins sud cow-skins. dried. stood three butchers. I thought they were such: when
I come nenrer to them. 1 found they had long lrnires in their hands. nut! in the middle of the
tent nmmured thn-e sheep killed, uud one oung bullock. or steer. These, it seems. were sacri-
tices to thnt senseless leg of un idol: um these three men priests belonging to it: and the
seventeen presumed wrotehes were the people who brought the altering, and were making their
pmyers to thut stock.

I confess I wus more moved ut their stupidity and brntish worship of n hobgoblin. then ever
I won at anything in my life: to see God's most glorious and best creature. to whom He had
gmnted so runny ndveutnges. even by erention. nbove the rest of the works of Ilia hnnds. vested
with n reasons nlo soul. and tbnt soul ndorned with faculties! nnd capacities adapted both to
honour his Linker. and be honoured by Him ; sunk and degenernted to a degree so more then
stupid us to prostrate itself to n frightful nothing. a mere inmgiunry object dressed or by
themselves. sud mode terrible to themselves b their own contrivnnce. adorned only with c outs
nnd rugs; and thnt this should be the e not of more ignorance. wrought up into hellish
devotion b the devil himself; who, envying (to his Maker) the homaflnd adoration of his
creatures. 1nd deluded them into such gross. surfeiting. sordid. and tish things, as one
would think should shock nature itself.

But what signified all the nstonishment and reflection of thoughts? Thus it was. and I saw
it before my eves: and there was no room to wonder at it. or think it im 'blc. All my
udmimtion turned to rage; and I rode up to the image or monster. cell it w at on will. and
with my sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two in the middle, so thnt It hung down
by one of the heme: and one of our men that was with me,'took hold of the sh skin that
covered it. and pulled at it. when. behold. a most hideous outcry and howling rsn rough the
villa . nnd two or three hundred people come nbout m cars. so that I was glad to scour for
it; 'cr we saw some had bows and arrows; but I rcso rod from that moment to Visit them
again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town. which won about four miles elf. in order to pro-
vide some horses. which they wanted. several of the horses having been turned and jsdsd with
the bndness o! the way-and long msech over the-lest dose ; sows hnd sons Members"27w Life'aud A Janitors: of Radium: Crusoe. 2 55

put my design in execution. I cemmuniceted my prejectte the Scots meruhent of Moscow, 0!
whose courage I bud lied sufieient testimony. es ebove. I told him whet I had seen. end with
whet indignation I had since thought, that human neture could be so degenerete. I told him,
I was resolved, it I could getbut our or five men well mod to go with me. I wes resolved
to go and destroy that vile ebominable idol; end let them see thet it had no power to help
itsc f. and wamuently could not be en object of worship, or to be preyed to, much less help
than lhncl'igl, "Hamlin. Y eel be good bu he d propose 1!
es etmeuns e." curs me ; twto toourse
by it? ""85 l'ropoeel" euiil I; "to vindiceto thoyhononr of God. which malted by this devil-
worship." " But how will it vindicate the honour of God P" seid he, "while the people will not be
able to know whet you mean by it, unless an could spcek to them, and tell them so; end then
they will fight you and beat you too. I wilEaesure you; for the ere desperate fellows, end thet
especially in defence of their idolatry." "Can we not," suid , "do it in the night, end then
leave them the reasons and mules, in writing, in their own lenguege?" "Writing!" seid he,
"why there is not a man in five nations of them. that know enythrng of e letter. or howto
read a. word in any language. or in their own." " Wretched ignorance! " said I to him;
" however. 1 have s. mind to do it; perhaps nature meg drew inferences from it to them.
to let them see how rutish they are to worship such h ' ings." "Look you. sir." saidhe.
" if your soul prompts you to it so werml , you must do it; but in the next gees, I would have
you consider these wild notions of people are subjected by force to the ear of Muscovy's
dominion; end if on do this, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands to the governor
ol Ncrtzinskey. uni complain. and demoed satisfaction,end if he cannot give them setrsiaction.
it is ten to one but they revolt; end it will occasion it new wur with ell the Terkrsinthe
count ."

Thig I confess. rut new thoughts into my heed for it while; but I he u the sems
atria still; and a lflrut day I was nueesy to put in project in execution. owe the evening.
the ts merchant met me b accident in our ehout the town. and desired to sack '
me. "I believe," said he, "I "gut on of of your good design; I have been e tle con-
cerned about it since; for I abhor e idol nod the idolatry us much as you can do." " Truly."
said I." you have sat it 03' a little so to the execution of it, but you have not put it et all out of
my thoughts; on , I believe, I shall do it still before I quit this lace. thoughstretohe
d ivcred up to them for mishotion." "No, no." so he; "Godfor id a: should delivsryou
up to such screw of monsters; they shall not do at neither; thet we be murd ' you
indeed." " Wh ." seys I. " how would they use me? " " Useyon l " yo
how th ssrv e poor Russien, who efi'rontsd them in theirevorship just as you did, end who
they too prisoner, etter they had lemed him with en errow, thet he could not run ewey;
too himend stripped him stark nelred,end set him upon the top ofthe idol monster, and
ell round him, no shot es muny errows into him us would stick over his whole body; end
then they burnt him end ell the errows sticking in him, as s sacrifice to the idoL'_' " And wes
this theseme idol?" "Yes," so s be. "the vs same." "Well."se s I. "Iwrll tell you e
story." 801 reletedthe storye our menet degsscer,und how yburuteudseckedthe
village there. end killed men, women, end child. [or their murdering one of our men, Just es rs
related before; end whenIhuddonmIeddethstIth htweo ttodosotothrsvillage.

Be listened very ettentivsly to the story; but when talked doing so to thet village.

seys he,"You mrstalreverymuch; itwesnctthis ' rtwuselmostehundredmilsshom *
thmplace;butitwusthesemeidol,forthsyce.r? ' eboutm ' nellovsrthe
country." "Well. then,"seysI, "thenthet idol ong tto hepunrsh rrt; endsortshell,"

se sI."ifIlivethienightout."

n owordJluding me resolute, heliked thsdesign,eud told me,Ishouldnot go done. but
he would go with me; end bringeetontfisllow. one of his countrymen. to anisowzth us.
"And one." seys he,"estemouslorhis seal es you one desire my one to
devilish thin esthese." Ineword,he brought me his comrade. e Scotemen, who hecelled
Captein nicflm _
whutIiuteuded; endhetoldmereedilydewouldgo

E
E
s;
i
E"
E'
5
3'
5

seyshe;"Iwill n'

 

 

r.'

 

.75
agreed to go. only as three. I had. indeed. proposed it to my partner; but he declined it. He
said he won ready to insist me to the utmost. and upon all occasions. for my defence: but that
this was an adventure quite out of hill way: so, I say, we resolved upon our worlr. onl us three.
and my lr'ilian-aervnnt, and to put it in execution that night about midnight. with all e secrecy
imagine e.

However upon second thonghtn we were willing to delay it till the next night. because the
caravan being to not forward in the morning. we unpposed the governor could not pretend to
give them any satisfaction upon ini when we were out of hie power. The Scots merchant. as
steady in his reuolution for tho enterpriee. as bold in executing. brought me a 'l'artnr's robe or

wn of the sheepskins. and a bonnet. with a bow and arrow>>. and had provided the some for
iimself and his countrymen. that the people, if they saw "It. nhonld not be able to determine
who we were.

All the that night we e nt in mixin up some combustible matter with aqua-vita). gunpowder.
and aneh other iuatorie e mi we con d get: and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot.
about an hour after night we not out upon our expedition. '

We came to the place about eleven ocleck at night. and found that the people had not the
least jealousy of den er attending their idol; the night was cloudy, yet the moon we as li ht
enou h to nee tliatt ie idol utood jmit in the same restnre and place that it did fore. ' he
poop e Meemml to be all at their rest: only that in he greet hat. or tent as we called it. where
we saw the three priests, who we mistook for lmteliere, we new a light. nml going up close to
the door. we heard people talking. as if there were five or six of them: we concluded. therefore.
that if we set the wild-tire to the idol. tlieue men would come out immediately. and run a
to the plan- in NM'III' it from the destruction that we intended for it: and what to do wi i
them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away. and setting fire to it at n diutance;
but when we came to handle it. we found ittoo bulky for our carriage; so we were at a lose
again. The neeend Scotsman won for setting tire to the tent or lint, and knocking the area-
tnm that were there on the head. when they came out; but I could not join with that: I was
n ainst killing them if it \rini [musible to be avoided. " Well, then." eaid the Scotti merchant.
"Ii will tell you wlint we will do; we will try to take them prisoners. tin their hands behind
them, and make them etand <<tillI and see their idol destroyed.

As it happened. we had twine or peelithreiul enough about nu. which was used totie our
fire-works together with: so we resolved to attack these ple tint, and with as little noise
as we could. The first thing we did we knocked at the dd: . which issued jniit an we deuired
it, for one of their idol prints came to the door, we immediatol seized upon him. stopped his
mouth. and tied his lulfltlll behind him. and led him to the ido . where we gagged him that he
mi lit not make a noise: tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground.

we of no then waited at the door. expecting that another would come out to in>> what the
matterwan; lint we waited so long till the third man came back to us; and then. nabody
coming out. we knocked in gently. and immediately out name two more, and we served them
jnnt in the name manner. at was obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol
eorae distance from one another; when. going back. we found two more were come out to the
door, and athird iitood behind them within the door. We seized the two. and immediately
tied them; when the third stepping back. and crying out. my Scots merchant went in after
him. and taking out a composition we lied made. that would only smoke and atinlr. he set fire to
it. and threw it in among them: b that time the other Scotsman and my men taking charge
of the two men who were already rind, and tied together also by the arm, led them away to
the idol. and left them them. to see if their idol would relieve them. making haste back to us.

When the fume we had thrown in had filled the hat with so much smoke that the were
almost sntreceted, we then threw in a small leather bag of another kind, which time like a
candle. and. following it in, we found there was but four ple left. who, it seems. were two
men and two women, amines we supposed. had been aboa some of their dinbolie sacrifices.
They appeared, in short, frightened to death. at lent so u to sit trembling and stupid, and not
able to speak neither. for the smoke.

In a word. we took them, bound them as we had the other. and all without any noise. 1
should have seid,wehronghtthsm entofthehousqerhutfirst; fier,indeed.wewesenoteble
tobeer'thesmokeenymorethentheywere. Whenweheddmthhwecerriedthemal er
to the odd: when we come there. we fell to work with him; and first we daubed him over.
and his robes also, with tar. and such other stn! as we had. which was tellew mixed with
brimstens; then we stopped his eyes. and ears, and month {all of powder; and then we
wre ped up a piece of wild-fire in his bonnet; end then sin "I? all the combustibles
we hrouh withnsnponhim,welookedabonttoseeiPSweeo dud-n 'ugelseto
help to burn 'm; when my men remembered. that by thetent. or hut. where men were,
there lay a heap 0! dry to whether straw or rushes I do not remember ; away he and
one of the Sootameu ran. and etched their arms full of that. When we had done this, we took
all onrtprisonere. and brought them. having untied their feet. and 11 ed their mouth. and
"Ed? on stand up, and set them just before their monstrous ide audthen set fire tothe
w o c. -

We stayed h it a nnrter of an hour. or thereehouts, till the powder in the eyes, and
mouth. and canyof the 1 cl blew up. and. we could perceive, had split and deformed _the she ;
and. in a. ward. till we saw it born into a mere block or log 0! wood: and then setting the
inmate it. we found it would be quite conenmed; when we be n to think of ing away; but
the lumen said. " No, we must not go; for these r deln ed wretches wi all throw them
uelves into the fire. and burn themselves with their i 0]." So we resolved to stay all theiorage
was burnt down too, and then we came awe and left them.

In the morning we peered among our f ow-travellers. exceeding busy in getting ready for
our journey; nor coul an men su that we had been anywhere but in our beds. as travel-
lore might be supposed to , to fit emselvee for the fatigue: of that day's journey.

But it did not end so; the next day came a great multitude of the country people, not only
of this village, but 0! a hundred more, for ought I know, to the town gates; and. in emoet
outrageous manner. demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor. for the insulting their
priests. and burning their great Cham~0hi~Thnnngn; such a herd name they gave the men-
strous creature they war-hi pod: the people of Nertzinskay were at first in a great consterna-
tion; for they said, the T were no less than thirty thoneand,and that in e few days more,
would be one hundmd thousand stronger.

The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them. end gave them all the good
words imaginable. Be assured them he knew nothing of it. and that there had not e soul '0!
his garrieon been abroad; that it could not be from any body there; end it the would let him
know who it was, they should be exemplarily punished. They returned heugh ' y: That all the
country rovennced the great Chum-Ohi-Thanugu. who dwelt in the sun. and no mortal would
have decreed to ofi'er violence to his image, but come Christian misereant; so they called them,
it seems; and they therefore denounced war against him, and all the Russians; who, they said,
were miscreants and Christians.

The governor. still patient. and unwilling to make a breach, or to have any cause 0! war
alleged to be given by him. the Gear having strnilghtly charged them to treat the conquered
coon with gentleness and civility, gave them ati all the goodwords he could; at last he told
them. are was a caravan gone towards Russia that morning, and hope it was some of them
who had done then this inanry; and that. if they would he "hem _ with that. he would send
alter them. to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a httle; and aeoordmgly the
governor sent alter us, and gave us a particular account how the thing was; mtrme withal.
that if any in our caravan had done it. they should make their escape; but that. w _ they
had doneiternmweshonldmeke all the haste forward that was possible; and that who
meantime. he would keep them in play as long as he could.

This was very friendly in the governor. However, when it came to the caravan, there was
nobodyknewanythingofthe matter; andesforns thetwcre 'ty,w_ewerethe least of all
suspected; none so rnnch ea asked us the question; however, e captain of the caravan, to:
the time. too]: the hint that the vernor gave us, and we marched or travelled two days and
two nights without any coneid le stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothns; nor dl'd
mahoany long stop here. but haetened on towardsJarawena. anther ofthe Omofitnscovys
eolonies, and where we expected we should be safe; but it is to be observed. that here we began,
for two or three days' marsh. to enter a n the vast namelom desert, of which I shall say more
in its place; and which, if we had now n upon. it is more than probable we had been all
destroyed. It was the second day's march from l'lothua, that by the clouds of dust behind us
It afreat distance. some of our people began to be sensible we were ursued; we had entered
the eeert, and had passed by a great lake, called Sehanks Osier, w on we perceived a v32
wet body of horse appear on the other side of the lake to the north, we travelling w

. e observed they went away west. as we did; but had supposed we would have taken that
side of the lake. whereas we very happily took the south side; and in two days more we saw
them not. for they, believing we were still before them, pushed on. till they same to the river
Udda. This is a ve triver when itpasses farther north; but where we came to it. we
founditnamw and o b .

The third mthey either found their mistake. or had intelligence of us, and came pouring in
upon as, tow the dusk of the evening. We had. to our great satisfaction. just pitched upon
a place for our camp, which was vo eonvoniont for the night; for as we were u n a desert,
though but at the beginning of it. t rat was above five hundred miles over, we no towns to
lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city Jaraweua. which we' had yet two days' march
to; the desert, however. had some few woods in it on this side. and little rivers, which ran all
into the great river Udda. It was in a. narrow strait between two little, but vo thick woods,
that we itohed our little camp for that night. oxpsctin to be attacked in the ni t.

. Ne y know but ourselves what we were pursued gar; but as it was usual or the Mongul
Tartarstogo about in troops in that desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every
night degagainst them. as against armies of robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to be

area

1) But we had this night. of all the nights of our travels, a most advantageous camp; for
we lay between two woods. with a litt e rivalet musing 'ust before our front; so that we
could not be surrounded or attaeked any way, but in our rent or rear: we feel: earo also to
make our front as strong as we could. by placing our peaks with our camels and her-sea all in a
line on the inside of the river. and fellin some trees in our rear.

In this postumweeneamped for the night; but the enemy was upon us before we had finished
our situation: they did not some on us like thieves, as we or . but sent three messengers
to us, to demand the men to be delivered to them, that h abused their priests, and burnt
their god Cham-Ohi-Thaungu with lire, that they might burn them with fire; and. upon this,
the said theywould away, and do as no further harm. otherwise they would burn us all
wi fire. Oar men ooked very blank at this re . and began to stare at one another. to
see who looked with most guilt in their faces. but, no y was the word. nobody did it. The
leader of the caravan sent word. he was well assured it was not done b any of our esmp; that
we were poaceable merchants. travelling on our business; that we had done no harm to them.
or to an one else; and that therefore they must look farther for their enemies. who haul
injured t em, for we were not the people; so desired them not to disturb us; for if they did,
'we should defend ourselves.

' They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer. but a great crowd of them come
down In the morning, by break of day. to our cam : but, seeing us in such an unaccountable
situation, they durst come no farther than the b in our front. where they stood, and showed
as such a number. that indeed terrified as very much: for those that spoke least of them,
spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked at us awhile, and then setting up a great
howl. they let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were well enough fortified for that, for
we sheltered under our baggage; and I do not remember that one man of us was hurt.

- Some time after this. we saw them move a little to our right. and expech them on the roar.
when a ennniu fellow, a Cossack. as they call them. of Jarawena, in the pay of the Museovitee.
eallin to the eadsr of the caravan, said to him. "I will go send all these ple away to
Siheil a." This was a city four or live da ' journey. at least, to the south, an rather behind
us. So -he takes his bow and arrows. an getting on horsehsek he rides awa from our rear
directlyrasit were, book to Nertsinskay; alter this he takes a great oirenit at and oomu27C/ Lift and Advmtum' of Radium>> CW. 259

tothenmyof the'l'ertemee i! he had been sent expreu to hllthemelonglhryythetthe
people who had hnrnt their Ohm-Ohi-Thenngn were gone?>> Sibeilh, with e amen of mien
mnmuheeelledthern; thetietoeey.0hmfinne; end that they had. reeolwdtobnrnthe
godBeelIeerg,helon'gtotheTon eeee. >> .. ~

Althie rmwmfiim If: mere' ,endperfectlyepoketheir heeonnterfeibd
so well that they ell took it finm him. and nwey they drove in I most ' ent hurry to Sibeilke.
which, it nemweefive deye'jonrneyte the north; end in lean then three honu th were
entirelyonto! our night. end we never heed nny more of then. end we never know whether
th wenttothet other pleoeonlled Slheilknorno.

wepeeeedulely ontothe eityof Jemwmwhm there wee e gerrieon o! Mneeorflu
end there we_neeted dvedeylfiheeerevenbeingexoeedinglyfetignedwiththelutdey'ehud
nuoh, end with want of netinthennght.

From thie ci we hed effightfnl deeert. which held nethree-end-twenty deye' mmh.' We
luring-sheila? (v; with some "mentor the beam- 'f onrulvee inthenlght;
on e ero eeerevenproc mmwwnggomo eeonn , oreenzm
our weter end provieionl: end time eerriegeewue on:- defenoe every night-gm on: 'tflg

reothethedthe'rnrtenepenrednnleu hedheen mm indeed
mnoohnmmmnunui M m" u 'M

Wemeywellheenppoeedtewentreet ' efferthielong'nrney.forinthiedeeertwenw
neither honee ortreemneuoenhueh. elew ebnndenee theeehle-hnntemnethey celled
them. These are ell Tortu- of the Mongol Tartan-of which this oonntz'ie [fem end flaey
froqnentlyetteekmnfleerevene;hnoweuwnonnmheuoPSthentmm . weeonmne' to
soothe able-akineth eetohedmntoonldlneverepeekwithenyof gfortheydnretnot
oomeneerneneither nretweetngglefmmonrmpenytogoneenhem. :,._-

Am:wehadpeeudthildeeert.wemehtoewmiy-pnttyweflinhehihdpthetiebuy.
welonndtawneendeutleeeetdedbytheCeerof nmvy,withgenieoneofetafionuy
eoldieretoprotecttheeenvenl enddefendtheeonnflegninetflm'l'ertemwhowonldothu-
wieemekeitverydengerone trev ' ,endhie ' mejeetyhugiven Inch thrice olden
forthewellgnerdingtheeennneen merchentethehiftheremeny'l'utereheudofinthe
mtrydeteohmente of the gnrrieoneereelweye unthieethehevefleneeiehonetefionh

on, . ,
AndthnethegovernorofAdinekoy,whoI had opportn ' to meleevieitto.bymeeneol

theSootemerehente,who wee eoqneintedwithhim,ofi' uegnudoffiftymif'we

thonglhtthemwneen dengerdnthenextetehon. '

I onghtlong onthhthehuweenmeneerertnll weehonldfindtheeonntry
better peopled endthepeople more civilized; bntIfonnd meieaneninbotthwehed
yetthe nefionoftheTongneeeetopeu-throngh,where we new the mwkmofgegnnmn
end herhu-ity, orwone. then before; only. a they were conquered by the Mummies. en_d
entirely reduced. they were noteodengetone;bnt for rudeneu of mannen. idolatry,mdnnlh-
theimn, no peopleintheworld ever went beyond them. Theymehthednflinehnedheeeh.
nndthuirhoneeembniltoftheenme. Yon knownote men from ewomen, neither by the
ruggedneu of their countenance- or their clothes; end ill-the winter, when theground ll
covered with snow,they lived nude: ground. in honeee like mItgwhiohheve amide-gems
homonetoenother. . . _
_'1f theMnhndtheirOhem--Ohi--Thenngnfarewhohvflhgqoreonnh'theee had Idol!
In everyhntend in everyone. Besidmtheywouhi ped the Mthe mthewnterqjhe
lnuw; endun eword,everything thetflleydonotusmdnndflwynndentendhntm
httle; eothet nlmeetm elemenhevery nneommonthingfleu than e-eeorifldng. ' v

Bntlnxn no moreto 'hwophthmwnntfiaenykrtherthenmyownetwym
to be concerned in them. I met with nothin pecnfierto myselfin ell thin oonntg.whieh.
Imhon.wu.fmnathedeeertwhiohlepokeof etheetfouhudndmflegheli itbeing
another deeert, which tooknenp twelve deye' severe travelling, wfihonthomwhee. whneh;
hntwereobligedngeinto .onrownyrovieioneeewellweteruhleed. Afterwewereput
of this Mend had PS323" two deygmnenme to Jenneynlinmviteoityenm

n ..
on the aghast river Janezsy. This river. they told us. parted Europe from Asia. though our
ma -m ere. as 1 am told, do not rec to it. However. it is certmnly the eastern boundary
of t e ancient Siberia. which now miifies up a province only of the vast Muscovite empire. but
is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire of Germany. _
And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed. except in the 11'anth
garrison. All the country between the river Oby and the river Jenezay is as entirely pagan,
and the people as barbarous. as the remoteet of the Tartan); nay. as any nation. for ought
I know. in Asia or America. 1 also found. which I observed to the Muscovrte governors. who I
had opportunity to converse with. that the poor pagans are not much the wiser or the nearer
Christianity for being under the Muscovito Government, which they acknowledged was true
enough. but, as they said. was none of their business; that it the Czar expected to convert llll
Siberian. or Tongueso. or 'l'urtur subjects. it should be done by sendin clergyman among them.
not soldiers; and they added. with more sincerity than I or ted. lat they found it was not
so much the concern of their monarch to make the people (.mtians as it was to make them

entities".

In this river to the great river Olny we crossed a wild. uncultivated country. I cannot

say it is a barren soil; it is only barren of people and gun] management; otherwise. it is in itself

a most pleasant. fruitful. and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in it are all

muons. except such as are sent among them from Russia: for this is the country. I mean on
th sides 0 the river Oby. whither the Museovito criminals that are not put to death are

banished. and from whence it is next to impossible the should ever come away. . .

I have nothing material to say of my particular airs till I came to Tobolsln. the capital
cit of Siberia. where 1 continued some time on the following occasion :--

e had been now almost seven months on our journey. and winter began to come on space;
whereupon no partner aml I called a council about our particular atl'airs, in which we found it
groper. consi cnng that we were bound for England. and not for Moseow.to consider how to

ispose of ourselves. They told us of sled es and rein-deer to carr us over the now In the
winter-time; and. indeed. they have sucli thin that it would incredible to relate the
rticulars of. by which means the Russians trove more in the winter than they canin summer,
use in these sledges they are able to run night and day. The snow. being frozen. is one
universal covering to nature. by which the hills. the Vales. the rivers. the lakes. are all smooth
and hard as a stone, and they run upon the surface. without any regard to what is underneath.

But I had no ocamien to push at a winter journey of this hind; I was bound to England,
not to Moscow. and m route lay two ways. Either I must on as the caravan weut till I
came to Jarislaw, and t Ien go all went for Narva and the Ga fol" Finland, and so either by sea
or land to Dantzic, where I might possibly sell my China cargo to ood advantage; or I must
leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwiua. from whence I had; but six do a I) water to
Archangel; and from thence might be sure of shipping either to I'luglan , ollaud, or
Ham urg .

New.to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been preposterous; for. as to
Dantzic, the Baltic would be {men up. and I could not. get passage. and to go by land in those
countries was far less sale than among the Mongol 'l'artars; likewise. to go to Archangel, in
October all the ships would be gone from thence. and even the merchants. who dwell there in
summer. retire south to Moscow in the winter. when the ships are gone, so that I should have
nothing but extremity of cold to encounter. with a scarcity of pmvnsions. and must lie there in
an empty town all the winter; so that. upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to
let the_caravan go. and to make provision to winter where I was, viz. at Tobolskr. in Siberia. in
the latitude of sixty degrees. where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with,
Viz. lenty of provisions. such as the count afl'orded, swarm house. with fuel enough, and
ex lent company. of all which I shall give a all account in its lace.

I was new in a quite ditlerent climate from my beloved is d, where I never felt cold
except when I had my ages; on the wntmry, 1 had much to do to bear any clothes on my
back. and never made any fire but without doors. and for my necessity. in dressing my food. do.
Now I made me three good vests, with large robes or gowns over them. to hang down to thefeet,snd button close to the wriste,aud all these linedwith furs.te make them suflieiently

warm.
. As to a warm house, I must confess. I. greatly disliked our way in England, of ' fires
in every room in the house. in open chimneys, which, when the fire was out, always kept air
in the room cold asthe climate. But taking an apartment in a good house In the town. I
ordered a chimneyto be built like a furnace,inthecentreof sixseveral looms. likeaatevs;
the tunnel to carry the smoke went up one way. the door to come at the fire went in another.
andlaallndtheroomswere kept equallywarm,butnofireseeu;justastheyheatthebaguiesin .
y this means we had. always the same climate in all the rooms. and an eqdusl heat was pre-
served; and how cold soever it was without. it was always warm within; an yet we saw no
. nor was ever incommodcd with any smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was. that it should be possible to meet with good company
here. in n country so barbarous as that of the most northerly purte of Europe, near the hosen
ocean, and within but I. very few degrees of Nova Zembls.
But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, as I observed befm, are all
banished, this city was full of nobleman, princes, gentlemen, colonels, and, in short, all degrees
of the nobility. gentry, soldiery, and com-tiers of hluscovy. Here was the famous Prince
Galicun; the old general Bebostiaky. and several other persons of note, and some ladies. >>
By means of m Scots merchant, who nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance
here with save ofthese gentlemen, and some of them of the first rank; and from theae,in
the long winter nights, in which I stayed here, I received several very agreeable visits. It was
talking one night with Prince --, one of the banished ministersof state belengingto the
Car of Muscovy, that my talk of my 'cularcuee began. He had been telling me shun-
dunee of fine thin of the greatness, e magnificence. the dominions, and the absolute power
of the Emperor e the Russians. I interrupted. him, and told. him, I was a greater and more
powerful prince than ever the Gear of Musccvy was. though my dominious were not so large,
or my people so many. The Russian dee looked a ttle surprised, and fixing his eyes
steadily n it me, began to wonder what meant.
I ted 'm hiswouder would cease whenIhsd explained myself. First, Itoldhithad
the absolute die of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects. '1'th notwithstandin my .
absolute power. had not one u disaffected to in government or to my tfizrson, in my s
dominions. He shook his at that, and said. " here, indeed, I eutdid Oaarof Mue-
covy." I told him. that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all myazuh'ects were
not only my tenants, but tenants at will; that the would all light for me to the t p; and
that never t ut, for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, and
yet so homggfeared by his subjects.
After amusing them with these riddles in government for awhile. I opened the case. and told
them the story ntlarge of my living in the island, and how I managed both myself and the
pie there that were under me, 'ust as I have since minuted itdown. They were exceedingly
on with the story. and especially the prince, who told me with a sigh, that the true
ness of life was tobemssterof ourselves; that hswould not have exehangedsuehagtateof
lifeuminetohavebeenGaarodMuscovy;andthathefoundmcrefelieityintheretareunent -
heseemedtobebenishedwthmthauwuhefoundinthewhiahestauflwrityheenyoyedin "
thecourtofhismsster,the0sar:thattheheightothuman ' mwastobnngourtempers -
down to our circumstances, and to make a calm within, under- the weight of the greatest acorns
without. Whenhecsmefirsthither. hessid.heusedto tear the hair from his head, smiths
clothes from his back, as others had done before him; buts little time and consideration had
madehim lookiutohimself, aswellss aroundhim,tothingawithout; thathefoundthemind
of man, if itwas but once brought to reflect upon the state of universal life, and how little
this world was concerned in its true felicity, was perfectly capable of making a. feherty for
itself, fully satisfying to itself,aud suitable to its own best ends and desires.wrthbutvery
little assistance from the world; that air to breathe in, food to mm hfe. clothes forwsrmth,
andlibertytorexeruise.in order to health,completed,in his opinions" that theworldconlddo for us; end though thnt greatness. tho nuthority. the riches. and the pleasures. which some

cn'oyed in the world. and which he hud en'oyed his shore of, had much in them that was egres-
nb o to us. yet he observed. that all these rings chiefly gratified the coarsest of our sd'ectrons
such M our ambition. our portienlnr rride. our nvnrrce. our vanity. and our unsonlityl ell
which were. indeed. the more product 0 the womt part of men. were in themselves crimes. end
hsd in them the seeds of all murmur of crime; but neither were relstcrl to or concerned. with
soy of these virtues thnt constituted no wise men. or of those graces which distinguished us
III Christinns: thut being now deprived of ull the [snoied Ielieity. which he enjo cd in the hill
exercise of all these vices. he said. he won nt leisure to look upon the dork side 0 them. where
he found all manner of deformity: end was now convinced. that virtue only nrnlres I nun truly
wise. rich. and greet. and prewrvos him in tho way to o. superior happiness in a future stnte ;
und in this. he said. they were mom hnppy in their banishment. thnn nll their enemies were.
who her! the full Inuwuiuu of all the weulth nod power tlrut they (the banished) had left
behind therrr.

" Nor. sir." said he. " do I bring my mind to this politically. by tho necessity of my circum-
stances. which some cell nrisernble; brrt. if 1 know anything of myself. I worrld not now no
book. though the User. my minder. should call me. and reinstate rue In nll m Tanner gmndenr ;
1 say. I would no more go burlr to it. then I believe my soul. when it slrn l he delivered from
this prison of the body. and hue hud n taste ol the glorious state beyond life. would come heel:
to the lot tlurh and blood it is new enclosed in. and leave lrenven to deal in the dirt and
crime 0 human ndirirs."

He spoke this with so much wnrnrth in his temper. so much earnestness nnd motion of his
spirits. which were apparent in his oounteunnee. thut it was evident it won the true sense 0( his
soul; there was no more in doubt his sincerity.

I told him. I once thought in self n lriud of n monarch in my old Motion. of which I had given
him on aecount. bnt tlrnt I thought he won not a monnrch only. but u "rent conqueror: for
that he that hes got u victory over his own exorbitant desires. and hes the nbsolutc dominion
over himself. whose reason entirely governs his will. is certainly greater then he thnt conwers
n city. " But. my lord." said I. " slrnll 1 take the liberty to nslr you s question?" " ith
nll my honrt." says he. " If the door of your liberty was opened." said I, " would you not take
hold of it to deliver yourself from thin exrlu? " _ _ .

"Hold." said he. " your question is subtle. and regime some serious just drstrnctrons to give
it n. sincere nuswer: end I will give it you from the ttonr of my~lrourt. Nothing that I lrnow
of in this world would move run to deliver myself from this suite of bnnishment. except these
two. First. the enjoyment of my relutions; and. secondly. n little wnrmcr climste; but I pro-
testtn you. tlrnt to go bur-h to the pump of the court. the glory. the power. the hurry of n
minister of state; the wmltlr. tho gniuty. end the pleasures. thnt is to my. follies of n ceurtrer;
it my muster should send me word tlrie moment. that he rectum me to nl he burnished me from;
I pretest. if 1 know myself at all. 1 would not leuve this wilderness. these deserts. end these
frown lslres. for the pu one of Moscow."

" But. in lord." said I. "perhaps you not only are banished from the pleasures of the court.
and horn c meter. and authority. and wealth. you 'oyed before. but you rosy he shunt too
1mm some 0 the conveniences 0 life: your estate. per ps. confiscated. end your cd'ects plun-
dered : and the supplies left you here may not be suitable to the oldie demands of life. '

"Ay." soid he. "thut is as you suppose me to be. e. lord. or o prince. . $0. indeed. I on;
hot on ore now to consider me only as n men. n hnrnnn creators. not at all dretin shed from
one or; and so I can seller no went. unless I should he visited with sickness so distemper;
However. to put the (truestion orrt of di um; you moor manner; we are in this place five

rsons of rent: ; we we perfectly retired: us suited to n stote of henishment; we hove some-

inn rescued from the shrpwreelr of our fortunes. which keeps us from the more necessity of
hunting for our food: but the poor soldiers who ore here. without that help. live in as much
plant _u we; who go into the woods. and catch snbles end foxes; the lnbour o! n month will
man then c you; and u the way cl living is not expensive. so it is not herd to get
nficrent to ourselves. So that ebJeeu'on is out 0 doors." . '
v I have not monitojiveafull accountof the most agreeablecoaversati'onlhed with this
trulygreatmanfin whichheelwwedthathismindwassoinepiredwithe ' know-
hdgeofthinggsosupportedhyuligiomaswell as hyavast share of wisdomm coa-
tenmt of the world was reell asmuehashehedexpressed,and thnthewssalwaysthe-me
to elast,aswillsppearin sto Iemgoingtomll. ..
I had been here eight months. ad's. dark dreadful winter I thought it to he; the cold was
so intense, that I could not so much as leek abroad without ' wrapped in fun, ands
mnsk'of far before my face. or rather a hood. with only a hole for th. and two {or ' t.
The hub day-light we had. was, as we reckoned, for three months, not above five hours a ,
and six at moot; onlithat the snow lying on the ground continually. and the weather clear.
it was never uiu dar Oui- horses were kept or rather starved) under ground; and. eater
our servants 'lfor we hired three servants here to k after our horsee and selves . we had every
my aim! then their lingers and toes tothaw,end take care of,leet they she mortifyand
0 s , . . .

It is true. within doors we were warm. the house: being close, the wells thick, the lights
small, and the glass all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh of deer. dried and cured in the
season; good broad enough, but baked ae biscuits; dried fish of sevewul aorta. and some flesh
of mutton, and of the bufl'aloee, which in rettmfood beef. All the stores of revisions for the
winter are laid up in the summer. and well on ; our drink was water ' with-aquuvit.
instead of brandy; and, for a treat. mead instead of wine, which. however, they have excellent
good. The hunters. who venture abroad all weathers. frequently brought 'ns In fresh venison.
very fat and good; and sometimes beer's flesh. but we did not much care for the laet We had
a good stock of tea. with which we treated our friends as above; and in sword. we lived very
cheerfully and well, all things considered. i

It was now March, and the days grown considerably longer, and the weather at least toler-
able; so the other travellers began to prepare sled to carry thempver the snow, and to get
thi icedytobegoi :hut in measures being _ cd,asIhavesud.lorAreh-ngal.andnot
for uscovy. or the Bliftio, I made no motion. knowing very well, that the_ahi from the th
do not set out for that part of the world till May or June; and that if was there
beginning of Au it would be as soon as an shigis would be read to go away; and
formlsu. .Im eno haste to he genquotdere d; inaword. eawagreatnianylpeo
nay.all e travellers. go away before me. It seems! year the? from thence to
for trade; viz. to carry inn, and bny necessaries with em. whi t 3 bring hook to '.
their shots; also others went 0! the same errand to Archangel; but on they also,being_l
come bee again above eight hundred miles. went all out before me. .
In short, about the latter end of May. I began to make all mdv to peek up}; and as I was
doi this.itoccnrredtemc.thatseciugallthesepeopleweie hanislied ythe urofliaecovy
to gilioria, and yet, when they came there. were left at liberty to go whither fli would - why
(lid they not then go away to any part of the world wherever they thought fit and I liegan
to erammc what should hinder them from makinguch an atten'igt. _

But my wonder was ever, when I entered upon ' t subleotwi the person I have mentioned.
who nnswemd rne thus :--" Consider, first. sir." and he. "the place where we are; and secondly
the condition we min; especially," said he, "the generality of the male whoara
hither. We are surrounded," said he, " with stem thin than and belts: oaths
north side an nnnavigahla ocean, where ' never , and never sir-am; neither-n! we
hadhcth,oonldweknowwhereto with Everyothsrwa."sudhe"wehaveahovea
thousand miles to pass the h e Gsar's own dominion. and y ways utterly impassable,
exceptb theroadsmadehynlssaovornormndhythetpwnsgamsonedbyhutroops; so that
wecetzl l)itie'i'ttl'i'erpauIiiiidisco bythemndorsnhsist snyotlierway;sothatxtum
to at m ' . ' . _

I was silenced. indeed. at once, and found that they were in a prisonevegy jot as secure
they had heen locked up in the eesueat Moscow; however.'it cameonto mythonghfithat
might certainly bemsde an instrument." procure the escape of this excellent pusqmsnd
vii-tam her-nil m1 would certainly MNWWM m :Umthelmls.

o5?

ii

:i: 2

iii.

 

7
i
1
-l
occasion one evening to tell him my thoughts: I represented to him. that it was very easy for
me to carry him away. there being no guard over him in the country; and as I was not going
to Moscow. but to Archangel. and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by which I was not
obliged to lie in tho stationary towns in the desert. but could encamp every night where I would,
we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel. where I would immediatel secure him on
board an Hug ink or Dutch ship. and carry him off safe alon with me; an as to his sub-
sistence. and other particulars. it should be in care. till he cou d better snnply himself.

He heard me very attentively. and look earnestly on me all the w do I spoke: any. I
could see in his very face, that what I said put his s irits into an exceeding ferment; his
colour frequently changed. his eyes looked red. and his cart fluttcrul. that it might be even
perceived In his countenance; nor could he immediately answer me when I had done. and, as
It were. expected what he would say to it: but aRor he had paused a little, be embraced me.
and said. " IIow unhappy are we! unguarded creatures us we are. that even our test acts
of friendship are made snares to us. and we made tompters of one another! If our friend."
said he. " your offer is so sincere, hus such kindness in it. is so disinterested in i Ilt'. and is so
calculated for my advantage. that I must have ve little knowledge of the world if I did not
both wonder at it. and acknowledge the obligation have u )on me to you for it. But. did yon
believe I was sincere in what I have so often said to you 0 my contempt of the world P Did
you believe I spoke my very soul to you.and that I had really obtained that degree of felicity

lure. that had placed me above all that the world could give me. or do for me P Did you
believe I was smeere. when I told you I would not go back. if I was recalled even to be all that
once I was in the court. and with the favour of the Czar. my master? Did you believe me. my
friend. to be an honest man. or did you think me to be a boasting hypocrite l' "--Hero he
stopped. as if he would hear whnt I would say : but. indeed. I soon after perceived. that he
stepped because his spirits were in motion; his rent hmrt was full of struggles, and he could
not go on. 1 was I confess. astonished at. the t ling. as well as at the man. and I used some
arguments with him to urge him to set himself free; that he ought to look a n this as a
deer opened by Heaven for his dolivomnco. and a summons by Providence. who as the cure
and dismaition of all events. to do himself good. and to render himself useful in the world.

He laid by this time recovered himself. " Ilow do you know, sir." says he, warmly, " that.
instead of a summons from Heaven it may not be a femt of another instrument, representing,
in all the alluring colours. to me. the show of felicity as a deliverance. which may in itself be
my snare. and tend directly to my ruin P Here I am free from the temptation of returning to
my former miwrable greatness; there I am not sure. but that all the seeds of pride. ambition.
avarice. and luxury. which I know remain in nature. ma revive and take root, and in a word,
again overwhelm mo: and then the lmppy prisoner. w no you see new master of his soul's
li rty, shall be the miserable slave of his own senses. in the full of all_ personal libert . Dear
sir. let me remain in this blessed confinement. banished from the crimes of life. rat or than
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the liberty of my roman. and at the expense of
the future happiness which now I have in my view. but shall then. I fear. quickly lose sight
of ; for I am but flesh, a man. a more man. have passions and affections as likely to possess
and overthrow me as any man. 0 be not my friend and my tern ter both together I "

If I was an rised before, I was quite dumb now, and a silent, looking at him; and.
indeed. admi at\vhat I saw; the struggle in his soul was so neat. that though the weather
was extremely cold. it put him into a most violent sweat. and I ound he wanted to give vent to
his mind; so I said a word or two. that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him
again: and then I withdrew to my own a artment.

About two hours after. I heard some { at or near the door of my room, and I was go he"
:pen the door: but he had opened it. am came in. " M dear friend," says he. " you 6.

most overset me. but 1 are recovered : do not take it ill at I do not close with your otter;
I assure you. it is not for want of a sense of the kindness of it in you; and I came to make the
most sincere acknowledlgment of it to PS531; but, I he I have got the victory over in self."

".My lord." said I. " hope on are y satisfied you do not resistthe call of ven."
" .' sud he."if ithad been mneavea.the samepowsrwoald have influencedme to accept
it:bnt1ho .aud amfullysetisfled.that itis from Heaven thatI deelineit; and Ihave
infinite sad-Ketch n inthe parting, thatyoushau leave me an honest man still, though note
man. '

I had nothing to do but to W' and make fessions to him of my having no end in
it. but a sincere desire to serve ' . Ea em me very passionately. and assured me. he
was sensible of that, and should always acknowledge it; and with that he ofiered me a very
lino present of tables, too much indeed for me to accept from s man in his circumstances; and
I would have avoided them. but he would not be refused.

The next morning I sent my servant to his lordship, with a small t of tea, and two
pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which aim weigh shove six
ounces, or thereabout; but were far short of the value of his nobles, which, indeed, when I
came to England. I found worth near 2001. Ho accepted the tee and one piece of the damask.
and one of he pieces of gold. which luv] a fine stamp upon it. of the Japan coinage, which I
found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any more, and he sent word by my servant,
that he desired to 3 With me.

When I came to "m, he told me. I lruew what had passed between us. and hoped I would
not move him any more in that elixir; but that. since I had made such a generous offerto
him. he asked me, if I had kindneu enough to offer the same to another man that he
would nome to me, in whom he had a great share of concern. I told him, that could not so
I inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for whom I had a particular value.oud shoul
have been glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance: however. if he would please to
name the person to me. I would give him my answer, and he he would not be displeased
with me,i he was with my answer. He told me, it was only is son. who. though I had not
seen. yet was in the same condition with himself, and above two hundred miles from him. onflie
other side the Ohy: but that, if I consented. he would send for him.

I made no hesitation, but told. him I would do it. I made eome ceremony in l ' him
understand that it was wholly on his account; and that seei I could notplevail on ' . I
would show in respect to him by my concern for his son: but see things are too tedious to
repent hero. 0 sent away the next day for his son. and'iu about twenty days he come back
with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses lowled with very rich furs, and which, in the
whole. amounted to a ve at value.

His servants brought e orsee into thetown,but left the young lord at a distance fill night,
when he came incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him to me; and, in short,
we concerted there the manner of our travelling. and eve thing proper for the journey.

I had bought a considerable quantity of cables, black oxekins, fine ermines. and such other
furs us are very rich ; I say, I had bought them in that city in exchange for some of the goods
I brought from China; in 'cular. or the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the test
put here; and the rest rwarde at Archangel, for a much better rice than I have

one at London; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit, an whose business. more
plprticulnrly than mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our stay. on account of

o trafio we made here.

It was the hgin ' of June when I left this remote place, a city, I believe, little heard of in
the world; and, row it is so far out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it should
be much talked of. We were now come to a. very small caravan. being on] thirty-two horses
and camels in all. and all of them for mine, thou h my new _wss proprietor o!
gfmn mm It walso:ostna I also, thatflIishom o more sinauts wifth me their. 2:1

ore. 0 arm etew ;w greatman passedorlnyself w
not. neither di iii-gum" inqufire. We had here the worst and the largest desert to
pass overthatwemetwithin alltheJcnrn :indeedIcsllittheworstbecause thewaywas
very deep in some places, and very uneven in others; thoheet welhad to say for it. was, thatye
thoughtwehadnotroops ofTartanandrobberstofaar, andthstthoynever cameonthisaide
the river Oby. or at least but very seldom; but we found it otherwise. _

Myyo lordhadwithhima faithfulluscevitescnantor mtherasihermnservuflayho
was psi-fly acquainted with the country; and led ushypnvate madgthatwe avoided. 266 Tim Life and Athlmhm': of Rabi/Iron Cmsoc.

coming into the principal towns and cities upon the great road. such as Turnen. Soloy Ksmaskoy.
and several others; because the Museovito garrisons. which are kept there. are v our-ions
and strict in their ohservntion upon travellers. and scarehin lost an of the banish persons
of note should make their comp) that way into Musooyly; at by is means. as we were kept
out oi" the cities. so our whole journey was a desert. an we were obliged to encanr and lie in
our tents. when we might have had very good accommodation in the cities on e way: this
the yo ng lord was so sensible of. tlrnt he would not allow us to lie abroad, whenwe came to
soverai'crties on the wa ; brrt lay abroad himself, with his servant, in the woods, and met us
always at the appoiu places.

We were just entered Europe. having passed the river Kama. which. in those parts, is the
boundary between Europe and Asia: and the first city on the Euro rean side was called Soloy
Kamoskoy, which is as much as to say, the great city on the river ama; and here we thought
to have seen some evident alteration in the hoopla, their manner. their habit, their reli on,
and their brrsiness; but we were mistaken: or as we had a vast desert to pass, whic . by
relation. is near seven hundred miles long in some places. brrt not above two hundred miles
over where we pascal it; so. till we carnelpururt that horrible rlnr-o. we found very little difference
between that country and the Mongul ' rtary; tlru poop e nrostl Pagans. and little better
than the savages of America: their houses and town full of idofr'r, and their way of living
wholly barbarous, except in the cities as above. and the villager near them; where they are
Christians. as they call themselves. of the Greek Church ; but have their rel' 'on mingled with
so many reliqnes of superstition, that it is seam to be known in some places rum more sorcery
and witchcraft.

In passin this forest. I thought. indeed. we must, after all our dangers were. in our imagina-
tion. coca , as before. have been plundered and robbed. and perhs murdered by a tree of
thieves: of what country the were. whether the rovin bands 0 the Ostiachi. a kin of
Tartar-s, or wild people on the nk of the Oby. had ran thus far; or whether they were the
sable-hunters of Siberia. I am yet at a loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried
bows and arrows. and were at first about live-and-forty in number; they came so near to as as
within about two musket shot; and, asking no questions. they surroun ed as with their horse,
and looked very mrnestly upon as twice; at length the placed themselves just in our we ;
ripon which we drew up in a little line before our came s, being not above sixteen men in l;
and bein drawn up thus. we halted. and sent out the Siberian servant who attended his lord,
to see w othey were; his master was the more willing to let him go. because he was not a
little apprehensive that tlr were a Siberian troop sent out after him.

The man came up near em with a {lag of trace, and called them; but though he spoke
sever-ab of their languages, or dialects of languages rather. he could not understand a word
the said: however, after some signs to him not to come nearer to them at his peril. so he
soi he understood them to moan. offering to shoot at him if be advanced. the fellow came book
no wiser than he went, only that by their dress. he said. he believed them to be some Tartars
of Kalmuck, or of the Ciroassiarr hordes; and that there must be more of them upon the great
desert, though he never heard that any of them ever were seen so far north before.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy : there was on our left hand. at
about a quarter of a rnile's distance, a little e or olum of trees. which stood close together,
and very near the road; I immediately rose wed we won] advance to those trees. and fortify
ourselves as well as we could there; for. first, I considered that the trees would in a great
measure cover us from their arrows; and in the next plate. they could not come to charge as
in a body: it was. indeed. my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it; and who had this excel-
leney attending him, namely. that he was always rcsdiest and most apt to direct and encourage
us Ill cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately with what speed we could, and
gained that little wood, the Tartar-s. or thieves. for we know not what to call them. keeping their
stand. and not attempting to hinder us. When we came thither. we found. to our great satis-
faction. that it was s swampy, sprin piece of ground. and, on the one side, a. very great spring
of water. which running out in a lit s rill or brook, was slittle tsrthor joined by another of the
hke lagoons; and was.in Ihomthohesdor source of a considerable river.eallsd afterwards
the Wrrtska. The trees which grew about this spring. were not all above two hundred, but
woreverylnrgeeudstoodprettythiek; eothatu eoen newegotiu, weaawnureelvee ecu
safe from the enemy. unleas they alighted end etmeked us on foot. N ,

But to make this more difioult. our Portuguese. with indefatigable npplicetion. out down
great nrnis of the treee. and laid them hnnging. not out quite ofi', from one tree to another; so
that he made n continued fence almost round us.

We stayed here, wniting the motion of the enemy some hours, without perceiving they made
any motion; when about two hour-a before night. they come down directly upon us; and
though we had not perceived it. we found they hed been joined by some more of the same. no
that they were nenr fonrecore horse. whereof, however. we fancied were were women. They
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood. when we fired one musket without
boll. end called to them in the Russian tongue to know whet they wanted. and bid them keep
off: but us if they knew nothing of what we said. th come on with a double fury directly as
to the wood-side, not imagining we were soberrlcod .thnt the could not break in; our
piletwasoureoptain.ae well an hehiid been our engineer; on deeired of us nottefireupon
them till they came within pistol shot. and that we might be sure to kill: and that when we
did fire. we should he sure to take good eini. We bode him give the word of command, which
he delayed to long. that they were, some of them. within two ikee' length of us when we fired.

We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot eo sung that we killed fourteen of them,

rind wounded eeverel othmuelso several of their horses; for we hndnll of unloaded our '

pieces with two or three bullete. at least.

They were terrihl Inrprised with our fire. and retreated immediately about one hundred rod
from us; in which he we loaded our iecee nguiu. end seeing them keep thatdistanee, we
snllied out, and oetehed four or five of eir horses. whoee riders, we snppoee. were killed; and
coming up to the deed, we could easily perceive they were Torture. but knew not from what
country, or how they come to make an exeursion such on unusual length. _

About nu hour after they made 11 motion to ntteek us again. and rode round our little wood
to see where else they might break in; but findingoun nlwnye ready to taco them. they went oi!
again, and we reeolved not to stir from the plece r that night _

Wesleptlittle.youmnyhe sure; hutepentthemeetpart ofthenight in etren ening our
situation, and burr-loading the ent-uucee into the wood; ad. keeping a. eta-int wetc we waited
for dayli ht, end, when it came it gave us 3 very unwelcome dieoovery indeed; forthe enemy,
who we azought were discouraged with the reception they had met with, were new inoreaeed to
no lees than three hundred. andhnd set up eleven or twelve huts and unto. es 1! they were
resolved to beeiege us: end this little comp they had pitched upon.the' open plum. atabeut
tliroe-qnnrters of a mile from us. We were. indeed. aur'pil-lised at this diecoveryi and. new, I
confess. I gave myeelf over for lost. and all thnt I had. e loan of my .efiecte did not lie so
near rue--though they were very considerable--u the thoughts offnlling intothohnude 0! such
barbarians, at the latter endo my journey. after so many difienltiee and heard: as Ihad

ue through; and even in sightof our port. where we expected and deliverance. As
firm pertuer.hewunrugiug. Bedeeln'redthntteloeehia we dbehiaruin,audhe
woul nther die than be eterved; and he was for fighting to e lest drop.

The onng lord. es gellantasever flesh ehewediteelf. was forfightingto the hetalao; and
myol ilot waeoithe o inion wewere abletereeietthenialhin thenmtwnwethenwere
in. Angthnswe t edeyin debates ofwhatwe ehould do-buttowardsevenmgwe
foundthnt the num ofenrenernieeetillinereaeed; her." theywereabmadinseveral
fine-{orpnydhefirsthad asnt out mute to cell 01: h phand to acquaint themd the

ty.andwedidnotknow but bythe morning they miilgt still he a. greeter number; aoI
began toinqnireof thoee peoplewehadhmnght from_To lnki,if therewunoother orniore
private ways. by which we might avoid them in the night. and perhape either retreat to aorne
town,ormptoguardueovathedesert _ - . l . . .,

The Si ' . whowaa aervantto the youngloidfiold no ifwe deergnedio avoid them,
and not fight. hewonld engagetoearryusofl in thenighttoa waythat wentnorthtowards
thePetraz.bywhioh heinndono anon bntweinight get awayand the'l'artaranever the
wiser; but hesaidhie lord hadgld himhe wouldnot mtruhhutwouldratherehooae to
fight. Itold him hemimokhialmdiorthathewu toowiseamantolovefighhng for the

 

9:.
3%
sake of it; that I know his lord was brave enough by what he had showed already; but that
his lord knew better than to desire to have seventeen or oi limo men fight five hundred,
unless an unavoidable necessity forced them to it: and that i he thought it possible for as to
escape in the night. we had nothing else to do but to attempt it. He answered if his lord gave
him such orders. he would lose his life if he did not perform it. We soon bronght his lord to
give that order, though privately. and we immediately prepared for the putting it in practice.

And first. as soon as it began to be dark. we kindled a fire in our little camp, which we kept
burning. and pie sired so as to make it lmrn all night, that the Tartars might conclude we
were still there; at as soon as it was dark, that is to say. so as we could see the stars (for
our guide would not stir before). having all our horses and camels ready laden. we followed our
new guide, who. I soon found. steered himself by the pole, or north star. all the country being
level for a long way.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter still; not that it was
quite dark all night. but the moon began to rise. so that. in short. it was rather lighter than
we wished it to be. but by six o'clock the next morning we were gotten near forty miles. though
the truth is, we almost spoiled our horses. Here we found a Russian village. named Kirmaz-
inskoy. where we rested. and heard nothing of the Kallnnck 'l'artars that day. About two
hours before night we set out again. and travelled till eight the next morning. the h not
quite so hard as before. and about seven o'clock we [ml a little river called Kirtza, an come
to a good large town inhabited h Russians. and very populous. called Ozomys. There we heard
that several trmps. or hordes. o Knlnmcks had been abroad upon the desert, but that we were
now completely out of danger of tlmm. which was to our great satisfaction, you may he sure.

In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the river Wit a. and running into the
Dwinn. we were there very hn upily near the end of our travels by lam . that river being navigable
in seven days' lmssage in An: mugel; from hence we came to Lawrenskoy. the 3rd of July, and
providing ourselves with two luggage-berm and a barge, for our own convenience, we embarked
the 7th. and arrived nll safe at Archangel en the 18th. having been a year and five months and
thm days on the 'ourney. including our stay of eight months and odd days at Tobolski.

We were obli '1 to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the ships. and must have
tarried longer. lad not a llamhnrgher wine in above a month sooner than any of the English
ships; when. after some consideration that the city of llalnburgh might happen to be as good a
market for our goods as London. we all took freight with him; and having put my goods on
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on board to take care of them; by which
means my young lord had a sufficient opportunity to conceal himself. never coming on shore in
all the time we stayed there; and this he did. that he might not be seen in the city, where seine
of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and discovered him.

We sailed from Archangel the 20th of August the same year, and. after no extraordinary bad
voyage, arrived in tho Elbe the 13th of September. Here my partner and I found a vary
on e or our goals--as well those of China as the nobles. do, of Siberia--and dividi the
produce of our effects. my share amounted to 3475!. 17:. 3d.. notwithstanding so many oases
we had sustained. and charges we had been at; on] remembering that I had included in this
about six hundred )ounds' worth of diamonds whic I had purchased at Bengal.

Here the young ord took his leave of us. and went up the Elbe. in order to go to the Court of
Vienna, where be resolved to seek protection. and where he could correspond with those of his
father's friends who were left alive. He did not part without all the testimonies he could give
fire 3:" gratitude for the service I had done him, and his sense of my kindness to the prince" ,

is nor.

To conclude. Having stayed near four months in Hamburgh. I came from thence overland
to the Hague. where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January,
1705.1").th been gone from England ten years and nine months.

And here, reoolvmg to harass myself no more. I am preparing for a longer ionrucy than all
those, having lived seventy-two {cars a life of infinite variety. and learned sufliciently to know
the value of retirement. and the leasing of ending our days in peace.

 

en's-r no moral, urn-nu. Ir. Jon's seven. sol-non.Yuma 51mm 49 Ca. Pub/1'31"".
CHOICE READING.

flanks suitabl: tot finsmts, Sim-aria, 3a..

wwhmdeflnm 34.6]..gillcfiu-dflk'
I. ""0"" "HWY"! \theel

SW;HthryJocqu;"1mlhq W A

[anon Hm lumnunmfmmu. Islllhomnd.

mwflhw-flhlhlvhd hlhym'lw'flld

mmm-<<mumwm Lima-plume!
nlnyu- who Lu- W wliull Sduu. Cum. LI>>
mmmvdmnfl-IIM hymn-m lhl in boot"
museum-u.

u- ] dim 03,1 a." "w ' I
'-- mu um. - Alli
WA'fl'. u: luv-w at u- Su- sanne--33w>>: Sum ,
A! Imam of tin Lamond-I Ba no--Giomml BAfl'Il'l'A
_ nun/m Caxton. Ihe Hm
We! South St. I"
-- yum War, a. Ania--SI: Wlunul jouu. m
OHM-I Saw "1:424:- Hun "Am III Chink-
ladle--Joan Luau, lb- Pofl M ml: Win--WILLIAM
arm>>. [in [and Mun-an Wilson. I).
We! Wanna mun>>, an Pot! <<Ibo
haw-Roam Bun. the Pot! of the Want--Gov" Rm:-
_ vol>>. on Channel Canbn-- on menus. 1h- Fhl PM>>
hut-01.0w: mun". the at on: Bum King--Tum":
lvnmnu, Ila Gunman--MAID" Anni. m H h
ado-2| Rector--m Hun-om. Ib- MAM:- M
vjoml scum. 1h Builder 0' lb: mm WM--
Rosm nu. m swan--Jun Ilonlm. me who>>
.fl--MAIII MIDI. II: Wlu Prim--Winn" Col-
.rr. In: mam-mu Helm the M
th--lluon nun. IN Wm Wumln,
mlmdlhcum Gh--Rlcmlolunnmm. lhlm
dmcumwmrh-o--OMOHI. mom-mm--
uum Hymn. m Ila! Owes--noun soul-r. an
Commun- lb: 85510--me Blunt. II. Faun Panda
--Lorr CAI". I. Nun: cum--Wuwu mum Lh- Pm
m WI Dame--R. mm. ID! may bun-r.

simuonuwngummotmcuw. A'I'Ik
dmChImSutholll 81?.QAWM.

mu-maM--muwagm

.m m m an uncommon A
Book {a lel. Ilnvud M Kim. m
mm ! M
"Bambi",nfiflm'flflyfl'

 

 

 

 

yaw: Bhtw 0 Ca. Miners,

5n! urn AND mm a, m 70H
MOMthhnAwdithm-filuh-
dhksdadhfde-lmmw 1-3;!

m--M Ub--'l'h Vang-IMHO."
[Wm M Oman--TM m Grim--Up
mofluco--To Gh- Ild M--Colmfl- In! RID--Nub--

 

<<mwmnifiuu mambo-itch.
Tank-3.x. '

WmmmmuMRa--m
an. Ind Duh! Rue--wuum of wa lb
Uuflnned--R' <<john-GHQ" "L-- I"
"Wan-mule MIfiSflou--MILQIIIL-- III
dlhsuMW-hmm'lh Wmolm Ran-1|.
MSW ll

Idl--Wlllln 0' Olim-- W

lavula Chum "'nlg aha--Wu m UH!" _
Mb. Rt--Wdliu (on. "ma--Wmlll 5|th
uLuu-y. Museum: cunt-n.

SEC-NW
MM- _'_..

nAromm BOO!" mmammm
33111188. With Anecdolu In! Tonia! "Inc-ulna; .
GldelTflnfilflle 91m
I'll-ll- Emu-<<mm

AmkaYc-chfll.
II. lumen-m. Mflaflumm fl
Ami-nan. 1mm whim
Milk--Am (in Gnu--Wily Chi--w

l'.' 5 mean: wlw can: "an," d ens-u;
|l I Ch-
"Aumammmuumjmm m

but!

Dnlll--Wlllhm cw. Lad Bulk! h--Wlllm w

was n--nmn Batu--.51! and Ooh--M

Wan-mu. <<so-m-- aha amps--or. vim-Hu-

vq--Mnlnl nun--m up>>. [an a cum--1a-

lulu--John "Ham--ph- barks--Gabe" um. Ina:
---\\'lllan [ha--jut>> Mina--John mam.

u M nan In. Nmm--Robdev--w ad.
m at w n... W nib--(Ian:

Anon--Own. lad mum--WM... m. m
emu-4n: wmnn Mono--Dr. munch-44:: -
<<1th '1 1"." w '5 '

_ .----

 

 

tzwsao--ripuwkmm ". 
' ' .' t a:7.1mm 8&th & Cc>>. thhn,

l3- "mom woman who I". Did-n Had 1W
la Vina. Play. Ind W 1 "Bunnies. ..

 

 

a: nu:- Lmu-- m' be. m mm.
m Emu--M Prime Prune (lulu-Hm
"manna -- {I minim--Hunk M00--
mu Coot--deh mm-- a. mam--cum. Cue-y--
Mm--L B. L--Jnfl Had--Juno! AMMIICouu
--Plnlm skunk--um Am. In! My Mill.
l3. mom: How A Boo]: '0! Y Ma entering
lpon [be Dalia "Adi" Uh. mm In A ii. Mala-la
Crow-Ia: Eflhnubl all): Idpal Tet-u mun."
Comment, ID the Moog-u, \ 'cighu. Ind Mammal Foreign
Octavia, Ind lhdt Engluh [gun-Icon. Tull: 1mm.
"ninth--"hill not lb! CHI! End cl "Hulk Hominy
_"'Hn~f launch Rich--Dug": Wt IO Your! Md In
butch--NY "nah-IIMIGIIGO-- Y
lama! h F -- mflyflufifibflh'. . 5.53:3
Damn... a. u-- m; m: ml
Bab--TM Y um I Nani Raul--TM Y Mun
IBITMI <<mummuawmm Cou-
m--W'l'mthndl-ndm 3:. he.

u. I'BI 3mm" mm 0' mam" .ov, '11:.

Plus din' 'nhd mflemonblc Evan "conic-1| in Saiptlm
31mm. DI. uauu Mm- ol St. John's. London
hm [Rumbas

mum--Mm--lhbd--U . n . Monk--Sodo-
m m--xlm--aem--sm'uu-I-En um Mahm--
m 1m Yeamd"deg'PSSSu""m--WmSSSSEURSS
Wane--mm

I} non-um 01' m PM"! OF OUR "HOUR
. By Rn. Dr. Kill. \Vl'lh Puke: b1 hobo. SlcClll.

:6. m 3:110on or ammo! um :19 coma-om
SCIENCES. B; Bmvnn lllrcucocx. DJ); LLD. mm
Camden. Ind .- Adamo-I mute. giving 1 emmonh
4m:hwvma nae-Lou amend-mm.
lulu. Eur-em (Che-p Dildo-.31.)

an l mm. [W 5653-- mu
".8" I; at>>. from 11%?- u mil-3333'. 11:"
a I ' -- .
Guam-RHIMWD: ""13.me :-
uam PM u m 'rlu m-- m
- a... - m: argmfiwxzwwg M-
an: <<my Liv--W um um M

8, hulk Conrl. Patnnotltr Row, London.

?

 

 

5am Wev CO. NM",

My" m M--'lh'l'
8 04 lb- Udm--m Vlu Hus cl J MI
lb. klgh Am.hkmhlh--Whlvhdlh
d SIQdIMR Ind U um 01
I . DOG! 11d: Man. tel. We.
' M :cvenl "mag! 37 Glam: Funnies Anon.
mama-i by "unison "Inn.
"- Rud'no in 1A1, xmn Nan-33w. The!
La .
mm'mac. a WWW "m. wm: may. Ill--won.
dos. Sand: Idol.
"A lurk ulna-34m "Whisk!"
Wham" H h'bl. has
I Abdul Inq-- [m-- bum-
mfi'fl'fim KIM: o! Ship--Hum. W a!
um --H a! has: -- o- Ibo imi-
Paya-- y a M: Starla--NM Hum--mm
M--nfla--Hcfln "mu--m--Tm
m In. Nmn--'lwm lot Edam--Tho DWI--
May--The luvs": haw--Th Uh Trudi. Ind
Multan" Ruben Ruble--The "No--Wm Boy--I'll
sun--n: Sun--n. Wooden" Geology. N
In Iowa Imam HOLIDAY BOOK: q
'9 lain-<<Amman. MM Nun-ll "know. "In"
lino! Pottery. 8r. 3; \Vlm Inn>>. Semi]! mu...

 

With am of an H d
-- (W an. MOI? Md!"
meg." A --Auwhn Sill {Ina--A Wild Boar Hut--BNO

ud
Hindu--WM on map--lawns nu lb:
Pain--Muhnlo--Monlg
Nuurll H Phflu-- lu--Alflluflun--Pbflflh
Ind Ihe Mae--T In. Nam--m m

Wm uvni Wu: Punchb--
Alden
wan--umnu . main. u--n.
J". Pam--m

n. non! ormmmzmnwm B theIMQIIAlQUII
at Loxwxnnn, Colonel a! ll. Second up: 0! Lilo-
Guldl. With combustion by G. R. Gulo. With Punit-
lld mun-m m'ellaouhblhdddudptbn Ollie
mmmwmx ""815. All then-uh In
Wind-aloud". Owl-<<nod. O

u. 2.17: m Lama-Inns or pa. manna: nv
m tumor: or sou-m APBIOA- not: A
Detriptionoflhck 'a'whkhhm w a 5hr:
Minimum macaw:
wmumu.u mammal. mum-J

mum-um

 

8 Lon-(Ir: Court. Pan-nah Row, Londonymawoapm 'r

 

_ "a h
N --Y=o&huammuu:

don.
nmmmzxurzwmumw
Pm By'V. "mun. mum... "Incu-

Cabib--'lh M h M h III "W
THAI-"hag." thud!" W" l
fluidly--Tana" "I'm--mi [h "--
uwmmdmm
9 SALT-PS0038 m on MORE tom mud.
with Wampum] Sketch, mamas-mmnh.
3111mm Null 1'10 mmmmm
dmhefihLA-MNMPmmu-
[chunk-Inn- mehlhhm

q. uxmoms or may. 0104325231.?qu

:'ho mwmgnmfiwum 3'55 (Do-dig:
I Can! a

a, w. wgmu. s mmuea. '
CWI--Smflmuh--M--Awm

nap--1mg. "a lauds--1h out Saul--TM Simon--

sem. a ImkmumAn-mhm 51"me

Wuhan.

I; 20m "Am mm" AND mum
T108 01mm mun-nu Am 3] Dip!-

. 3M&
6! Admit--Th H Klan--1h 0"
3mm mmwmfia am:
- 0
Th M Kid. k--Th El Kind. : -

'. WWW" 01mm
mgfiwhh-mtnmlm muffinlm 1'5.
"WWW" Gull
"Wt--MH% otGlnfi
--Cuncllnd But-- Aldous 1

Blur. m hm. . M

M d
$2551" "5&kfim'fi
mom. 03.1"" on. In" on. on.

 

main-uh.
cud. "Wynn-.89!!!" Gnu-hating
.r--TMN mam-5mm

mummmma--mmu

I]. mus-rum morn or m I!"
AND mum to. Bye-pain 'l'. Blown.

mammmwmammm--Wm

Fall--Th Mll- Kind--Hub of ID. Gout Khd--TNM

Ind "I V AIM--Hahn In Gaul--m

nub--Cuna-
Slul'l'flbo--Thlhymhamll--Thh- Ildh
Who" M-- m
nu--mmmmm

Miami--WWW
mmmmmumu--mmm--mmn

cued-Thu mmmsummuauu-
--mfihudlu mum-gumm--
mmnam-- Indium--Om
ham-WT mum--m
Cam--Sam

a. 7;: mm'apmm mum woman
m1- wmonumoonaaimuuamm
finds-'vhad-kdbowudlhemdhkaflqm

chum udhhnhnhflulhddndmuy'
hmm (Susanna. <<mu-unmad-
--Ilaxaxi|. (A him: Poplin-5am.

gm" 0, m mum nmumuvn

Elm?! 0' am: 33.139.530mbqldcw

to mustn't. . olnl unlu- Semi

mun. wmw magnum
"mfmmmmdmfi

("Wipmmhmkm--mh--

--'n- nun--n. Nan-W d

8. Lmll': Item haw kw. PS02m"3*""5m-<<armm

 

d "HM-'13",- FW-mhlm--
2 Ann. ugh lyz--w I: Inc- Span--u

man-n <<curl. I'm--mule
u mmmflfl-m'rw-w '
n :

le v IL can? Tag/um].

mummuxm--'t'h' Ym'w

wrmmmnm-- cl

un- mmmhmh m..mn

":0deth mw.

mm VII. III a
$Mmm.mfimww.
Wu um Spun--Wu mm H
lat--Lo- do". an
Chil-

mun-MM lll.' M An...
m--mw-dmnua ' ".- sufu-rouh-
--ladflodlEURaflo--Huflo Nwflmsvh elu-
nm cl Ian-4m! Drum n Luau--mu.
sung-n him whom--NM u was:
find-MNNHMIW H
mm Hb-Am--n- Bung-41mm h m. nam-
W MM"--

WIN-'11.!!!"

mrrnx-- IILJIuMIauu-'lhm
nmnMUW--W

 

I, but: (an, Palm Row. Loud-s

1mW&b,mM
m--w-mhmmu-ouu-ahA--h

mum--W.) IV. 10m no IOy--Winh- W. "an:
In urn-ah. u Mad-wanin-
' -ndPSan-- --W--m

magnum-Juan"

pmoum womwrusmydurum. by
its Nnnon Clonuum. Eu! Ill-ulna. by Bull
Ion-n. runawa- .

 

 

oflh: lhl' Con-m... 21mm)!
mmwm 9' "'
a." 11. mm:- Via-gm mu
fiaLa "$3.. thug:
a. l
mumuwmx--mmomm

y. INTERESTING mamas XII comm HISTORY
AND BIBLE MVB'I'RA'HON."

"hwy" Uni. SduC/.A Imumflmo'fil
unwind

Cuba--Unanznnm "mum lhb--1hllmuh fiv-
<<mm--mumunmm
.mswaumsmum--msm an!
Science! Candace!!--

Bv Ammo: Amman. manual at! w
"mmdh mmmmgm
lug mhdnpk." '
34. m mum 0' onus-rum n! m
mu. DIVISION.
nouns P. mum", D.D.
mu. m mm

WIN"! W; [m
dlhl New Tml--Odflfllyd Du Gupd flux--A

who-Ml"--

U. WIMPWMM

o