rl.

 

nls oi" the luulincm-S.

g' the momma

chin

Crusoe and Friday watTHE

IJFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

WITH

k LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.

 

PORTLAND:
S. H. COLESWORTHY.

1845.'hiTfifl

LIFE OF DE FOE.

t--u--nu-l--o

l
DANIEL DE FOE was descended from a respectalm
family in the county of Northampton, and born in London,
ubbut the year 1663. His father, James Fee, was a butcher, in
the parish of St._Giles', Cripplegate, and a protestant dissenter.
Why the subject of this memoir prefixed the De to his family
name cannot now be ascertained, nor did he at any period of

his life think it necessary to give his reasons to the public. '

The political scribblers of the day however, thought proper to
remedy this lack of information, and accused him ofimssess-
ing so little of the amor patrim, as to make the addition in or-
der that he might not be taken for an Englishman; though
this idea could have had no' other foundation than the circum-
stance of his having, in consequence of his zeal for king William,
attacked the prejudices of his countryman in his " True-born
Englishman." -
After receiving a good education at an academy at New-
ington, young De Foe, before he had attained his twenty-first
year, commenced his career as an author, by writing a pamph
let against a very prevailing sentiment in favour of the Turks.
who were at that time laying siege to Vienna. This produn
tion,being very inferior to those of his maturer years, was vw"
little read, and the indignant author, despairing of success
with his pen, had recourse to the sword; or, as he termed it,
when boasting of the exploit his latter years, "displayed his
attachment to liberty and protestantism," by joining the ill-ad-
vised insurrection under the duke of Monmouth, in the west.
On the failure of that unfortunate enterprise, he returned
again to the metropolis; and it is not improbable, but that the
circumstance of his being a native of London, and his per-
ms not much known in that part of the kingdomflwhere the

I'.6; v.

"rebellion took place, niight faciliate his escape, and be the
means of preventing his being brought to trial for his share in
the transaction. With the professions of a writer and a soldier
Mr. De Foe, in the year 1685, joined that of a trader, he was
first engaged as a hosier, in Cornhill, and afterwards as a
makerof bricks and pantilesmeerTilbury Fort in Essex: but
in consequence of spending those hours in the hilarity of the
tavern which he ought to have employed in the calculations
of the counting-house, his commercial schemes proved unsuc.
cessful; and in 1694 he was obliged to abscond from his credi-
tors, not failing to attribute those misfortunes to the war and
the severity of the times, which were doubtless owing to his
own misconduct. It is much to his credit however, that after
having been freed form his debts b composition, and being in
prosperous circumstances from ing William's favour, he
voluntaril paid most of his creditors both the principal and
interest 0 their claims. This is such an example of honesty
as it would be unjust to De Foe and to the world to cancels.
The amount of the sums thus paid must have been ve con-
siderable, as he afierwards feelingly mentions to Lord aver
sham who had reproached him with covetousness; "With a
numerous family, and no helps but my own indus , I have
forced way through a sea of misfortunes, and re need my
debts e usive of composition, from seventeen thousand to
less than five thousand pounds." I

At the beginning of the year 1700, Mr. De Foe published a
satire in verse, which excited very considerable attention, call.
"Ed the " True-born Englishman." 'Its purpose was to furnish
a reply to those who were continually abusing King William
and some of his friends as foreigners, by shewing that the
gresent race of Englishman was a mixed and heterogeneom
rood, scarcely any of which could lay claim to native purity
of blood. The satire was in many parts very severe; and
though it gave high offence, it claimed a considerable share
of the public attention. The reader will perhaps be gratified
by a specimen of this production, wherein he endeavours to

. account for

" What makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in times of peace, than war;
Why civil feuds disturb the nation more,
Than all our bloody wars had done before;
Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place.
And men are always honest in disgrace;The court prefermcnts make men knaves in course
But they, who would be in them would be worse.
'Tis not at foreigners that we repine,

Would fort igners their perquisites resign:

The grand contention's plainly to be seen,

To get some men put out and some put in."

    
  
 

t will be immediately perceived that Do Foe could have no
retcnsions to the character of a post: but he has notwith-
tanding, some nervous and well-versificd lines, and in choice
1' subject and moral he is in general excellent. The True~
orn Englishman concludes thus :--

" Could but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their offspring thus degenerate;

How we contend for birth and names unknown,
And build on their past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And openly discern the vile degenerate race.

For fame of. families is all a cheat;

'Tis ransom". Via-run ONLY muss us can."

For this defence of foreigners De Foe was amply rewarded
by King William,who not only ordered him a pension. but as
his opponents denominated it, appointed him pamphlet-writer
general to the court ,- an office for which he was peculiarl well
calculated, possessing, with a strong mind and a ran y wit,
that kind of yielding conscience which allowed him to support
the measures of his benefactors, though convinced they were
injurious to his country. De Foe now retired to Newington
with his family, and for a short time lived at ease; but the
death of hisroyal patron deprived him of agenerous protector.

future life.

He had always discovered a great inclination to engage. in
religious controversy, and the furious contest. civil and eccle-
siastical, which ensued on the accession of Queen Anne, gave
him an opportunit of gratifying his favourite passion. He
therefore publishedy a tract entitled " The shortest Way with
the Dissenters, or Proposals for the Establishment of the
Church," which contained an n-onical recommendation ofper-
secution, but written in so serious a strain. that many persons,
Latticular Dissenters, at first mistook its real intention. ' The

'gh church party however saw, and felt the ridicules, and by
their influence, a prosecution was commenced against him.

vii '

and opened ascene of sorrow which probably embittered his .V111

and a proclamation published in the Gazette, ofi'ering a mo
ward for his apprehension.* When De Foe found with how
much rigour himself and his pamphlet were about to be treat-
ed, he at first secreted himself: but his printer and bookseller
being taken into custody, he surrendered, being resolved, as he
expressed it, "to throw himself upon the favour of govern-
ment, rather than that others should be ruined by his mis-
takes." In July, 1703, he was brought to trial, found guilty,
and sentenced to be imprisoned, to stand in the pillory, and to
pay a fine of two hundred marks. He underwent the infa-
mous part of the punishment with great fortitude, audit seems
to have been generally thought that he was treated with un-
reasonable severity. So far was he from being ashamed of
his fate himself, that he wrote a hymn to the pillory, which
thus ends, alluding to his accusersz--

" Tell them, the men that plac'd him here
Are scandals to the times;

Are at a loss to find his guilt,

And can't commit his crimes.

Pope, who has thought fit to introduce him in his Dunciad
(probably from no other reason than party difference) characc
torises him in the following line:

" Earless on high stood unabash'd De Foe.'

 

"St. James's January 10, 1702--3.

* " Whereas Daniel Dc Foe, alias De Face, is charged with
writing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet, entitled " The
shortest Way With the Dissenters :" he is a middie-sized spare
man. about 40 years old, of a brown complexion, and dark
brown coloured hair, hm wears a wig, a hooked nose, a sharp
chin, grey eyes, and a large mole near his montlmvas born in
London, and for many years was a hose-factor, in Freeman's
Yard, in Cornhill, and now is owner of the brick and pantile
works near Tilbury Fort, in Essex; whoever shall discover
the said Daniel De Fee, to one of her Majesty's Principal
Secretaries of State, or any of her Majesty's Justices of
Peace, so as he may be apprehended, shall have a reward of
501. which her Majesty has ordered immediately to be paid

upon such discovery."
London Gas. No. 3379.This is one of those instances of injustice and malignity which
so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and which reflect more
dishonour on the author than on the parties traduced. De Foe
lay friendless and distressedinNewgate, his family ruined, and
himself without hopes of deliverance, till Sir Robert Harley,
who approved of his principles, and foresaw that during a fac-
tious age such a genius could be converted to many uses,
represented his unmerited sufi'erings to the Queen, and at
length procured his release. The treasurer, Lord Godolphin,
also sent a considerable sum to his wife and family, and to him
money to pay his fine and the expense of his discharge. Grati-
tude and fidelity are inseparable from an honest man; and it
was this benevolent act that prompted De Foe to support Har-
ley, with his able and ingenious pen, when Anne lay lifeless,
and his benefactor in the vicissitude of party was persecuted
by faction, and overpowered, though not conquered by vio
lence. '

The talents and perseverance of De Foe began now to be
properly estimated, and as a firm supporter of the administra-
tion, he was sent by Lord Godolphin to Scotland, on an errand
which, as he says, was far from being unfit for a sovereign to
direct or an honest man to- perform. His knowledge of com-
merce and revenue, his powers of insinuation, and above all
his readiness of pen, were deemed of no small utility, in pro-
moting the union of the two kingdom; of which he wrote an
able history, in 1709, with two dedications, one to the Queen,
and another to the Duke of Queensbury. Soon afterwards he
unhappily, by some equivocal writings, rendered himself sus-
pected by both parties, so that he once more retired to New-
ington in hopes of spending the remainder of his days in peace.
l-Iis pension being withdrawn, and wearied with politics, he
began to compose works of a difi'erent kind.--The year 1715
may therefore be regarded as the period of De Foe's political
life. Faction henceforth found other advocates, and parties
procured other writers to disseminate their suggestions, and to
propagate their falsehoods.

In 1715, De Foe published the " Family Instructor ;" a work
inculcating the domestic duties in a lively manner, by narra-
tion and diaIOgue, and displaying much knowledge of life in
the middle ranks of society.- " Religious Courtship" also
appeared soon after, which, like the "Family Instructor," is
eminently religious and moral in its tendency, and strongl im-
presses on the mind that spirit of sobriety and private gen>>

. (ion for which the dissenters have generally been distinffilds''3

ed. The most celebrated of all his works, "The Life and
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe," appeared in 11'19. This
work has passed through numerous editions, and been trans-
lated into almost all modern languages. The great invention
which is displayed in it, the variety of incidents and circum-
stances which it contains, related in the most easy and natural
manner, together with the excellency of the moral and relio
gious reflections, render it a performance of very superior and
uncommon merit, and one of the most interesting works that
ever appeared. It is strongly recommended by Rossean as a
book admirably calculated to promote the purposes of natural
education ; and Dr. Blair says, "No fiction in any language,
was ever better supported than the adventures of Robinson
Crusoe. While it is carried on with that appearance of truth
and simplicity, which takes a strong hold on the imagination
of all readers, it suggests, at the same time, very usefulin-
struction; by shewing how much the native powers of anen
maybe exerted for surmounting the difliculties of any external
situation." It has been pretended, that De Foe surreptitious-
ly appropriated the papers of Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch
mariner, who lived four years alone on the island of Juan
Fernandez, and a sketch of whose story had before appeared
in the voyage of Captain Woodes Rogers. But this charge, _
though repeatedly and confidently brought, appears to be to-
tally destitute of any foundation. De Foe probably took
some general hints for his work from the story of Selkirk, but
there exists no proof whatever,nor is it reasonable to suppose
that he possessed any of his papers or memoirs, which had
been published seven years before the appearance of Robinson
Crusoe. As a farther proof of De Fee's innocence, Captain
Roger's account of Selkirk may be produced, in which it is
said that the latter had neither preserved pen, ink, or paper,
and had in a great measure lost his language; consequently
De Foe could not have received any written assistance, and
we have only the assertion of his enemies to prove that he
had any verbal.

The great success of Robinson Crusoe induced its author
to write a number of other lives and adventures some of which
were popular in their times, though at present nearly forgotten.
One of his latest publications was " A Tour through the Is-
land of Great Britain," a performance of very inferior merit,
but De Foe was now the garrulous old man, and his spirit to
use the words of an ingenious biographer,) "like a can 0
struggling in the socket, blazed and sunk, till it disappearedxi

at length in total darkness." llis laborious and unlfnrtunaae
life was finished on the PS6tliof April, 1731, in the parish of the
Giles', Cripplegate.

Daniel De Foe possessed very extraordinary talents: as a
commercial writer, he is fairly entitled to stand in the lore~
most rank among his cotemporaries, whatever may be their
performances or their fame. His distinguished characteristics
are originality, spirit,~and a profound knowledge of his sun-
ieet, and in these particulars he has seldom been surpassed.
As the author of Robintion Crusoe he has a claim not only to
the admiration, but to the gratitude of his countrymen; and so
long as we have a regard for supereminent merit and take an
interest in the welfare of the rising generation, that gratitude
wili not cease to exist. But the opinion of thelearned and in-
genious Dr. Beattie will be the best eulogium thatean be produce
ed on that celebrated romance: " Robinson Crusoe,"aays the
DoctOr." must be allowed by the most rigid moralist, to be one of
those novels which one may read not only with pleasure but also
with profit. It breathes throughout a spirit of piety and be.
nevolencc; it sets in a very striking light the importance of
the mechanic arts. which they. who know not what it is to be
without them, are so apt to undervalue; it fixes on the mind a
lively idea of the horrors of solitude, and, consequently of
the sweets of social life. and of the blessings we derive from
conversation and mutual aid; and it shews how.by labour-
mg with one's own hands. one may secure independence, and
open for one's' self, many sources of health and amusement
l agree, therefore, with . tosseau, that it is one of the best
books that can be put into the hands of children."THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBIONSON CRUSOE.

 

I was born in York, in the year 1632, of a reputable
family. My father was a native of Bremen; who by

.merchandizing at Hull for some time, gained a very
- plentiful fortune. He married my mother at York,

who received her first breath in thatcountry; and as.
her maiden name was Robinson, I was called Robin-
son Kreutznaer; which not being easily pronounced in
the English tongue, we are commonly known by the
name of Crusoe.

I was the'youngest of th1ee brothers. The eld
est was a lieutenant-colonel 1n Lockh art's regiment,
but slain by the Spaniards, what became of thbe other'
I could never learn.

No charge nor pains were wanting in my education
My father designed me for the la", yet nothing
could serve me but I must go to sea, both against tl e
will of my father, the tears z"ofiny mothet, and the en-
treaties of friends. One morninrr my father expostu-
lated very warmly with me. \Vhat reason, says he,
have you to ieave your native country, where there
must be a more certain prospect of content and hap-
piness, to enter into a wandering condition of unea--
siness and uncertainty? He recommended to me
Agar's wish, neither to desire poverty norriches;
that'a middle state of life was most happy; and that4 ' use an anvnn'runns or

the high-towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, where surrounded with misery and
danger, and often ended with confusion and disap-
pointment. I entreat you, nay I command you (says
he.) to desist from these intentions. If you will go
(added he,) my prayers shall, however, be offered for
your preservation; but a time may come, when deso-
late, oppressed, forsaken, you may wish you had
taken your poor despised father's counsel.--He pro-
nounced these words with such a moving and pa-
ternal eloquence, while floods of tears ran down his
aged cheeks, that it seemed to stem the torrent of my
resolution. But this soon were off; and a little after', -
I informed my mother that I could not settle at any
business, my resolutions were so strong to see the
world, and begged she would gain my father's con-
sent only to go one voyage: which if it did not
prove prosperous, I would never attempt a second.
But my desire was as vain as my fully in asking. My
mother passionatelyexpressed herdislike to this pro-
posal, telling me that as she saw I was bent on my
own destruction, contrary to their will and my du'dy,
she would say no more, but leave me to myself to o
whatever I pleased.

I was then, I think, nineteen years old, when one
time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of mine go-
ing along with his father, who was master ofa ship.
to London; and acquainting him with mywandering -
desires,he assured me of a free passage, and a plentiful
share of what was necessary. Thus without'implor-
ing a blessing, or taking farewell of my parents, I
took shipping on the lat of September, 1651.

Upon the 6th day, we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound with some
Newcastle ships; and there being a good anchor.
ogqand our cables sound, the seamen forgotdhoit...aonmsox causes. . 5

late toll and danger, and spent the time as merrily as
if they had been on shore. But on the eighth day,
there arose a brisk gale of wind, which prevented
our tiding it up the river; and it still increasing, our
- ship rode forecastle in, and shipped several large
seas

It was not long before horror seized the seamen
themselves, and I heard the master express this
melancholy ejaculation, Lord have mercy upon us, we
shall all be lost and undone. For my part, sick unto
death, I kept my cabin, till the universal and terri-
bly dreadful apprehensions of our speedy fate made
me get upon deck, and there I was afi'righted indeed.
The sea went mountains high: I could see nothing
but distress around us : two ships had cut away their
masts, and another had foundered; two more that
had lost their anchors, were forced out to the mercy
of the ocean; and, to save our lives, we were forced
to cut our foremast and mainmast quite away. '

Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my
dreadful condition? I was but a fresh water sailor,
and therefore seemed more terrified. Our ship was
very good, but overloaded; which made the sailors
often cry out, She will founder; words I was then ig-
norant of. All this while, the storm continuing and
rather increasing, the master and the more sober part '
of the men went to prayers, expecting death every
moment. In the middle of the night, one cried out,
We had sprung aleak; another, That there was four
feet water in the hold. Iwas just ready to expire
with fear, when immediately all hands were called to
the pump; and the men forced me. alao in that ex-
tremity to share with them in their labour. While.
thus employed, the master espying some colliers, fire
edg gumas a signal of distress; and I not under-,-
"adding what it meant, :thinking that either the ahi}.
nroke, or some dreadful thing happened, fell into a
swoon. Even in that condition of woe, nobody mind ,
ed me, excepting to thrust me aside with their feet.
thinking me dead; and it was a great while before
I recovered.

Happy it was for us, when upon the signal, given
they ventured out their boat to save our lives. All
our pumping had been in vain, and vain had all our
attempts been, had they not come to our ship's sidefi
and our men cast them a rope over the stern with a
bony to it, which after great difficulty they got hold
of, and we hauling them to us. got into their boat.
and left our ship which we perceived sink within
less than a quarter of an hour; and thus I learnt win:
was meant by foundering at sea. And now the men
incessantly laboured to recover their own ship; but
the sea ran so high, and the wind blew so hard, that
they thought it convenient to haul in shore, which
with great difficulty and danger at last we happily ef-
fected, landing at a place called Cromer, not far from
Winterton light-house: from whence we all walk-
ed to Yarmouth, where, as objects of pity, many
good people furnished us with the necessaries to car-
ry us either to Hull or London.

Strange that after all this, I did not, like the prodi-
gal son, return to my father; Who hearing of the
ship's calamity, for a long time thought me entombed
in the deep. No doubt but I should have shared-in
the fatted calf, as the Scripture expresseth it; but my
wayward disposition still pushed me on in spite of
the powerful convictions of reason and conscience.
When we had been at Yarmouth three days I met
my old companion, who had given me the invitation
to go on board along with his father. His behaviou.
and speech was altered, and, in a melancholy man-
ner he asked me how I did? telling his father who IROBINSON 0311803. 7

was, and how I had made this voyage for a trial only,-
to proceed farther abroad. Upon which the old gen
tleman turning to me, said, Young man, you ought
never to go to sea any more, but take this for a cer
tain sign, that you will never prosper in a sea-faring
condition. Sir, answered I, will you take the same
resolution? It is a different case, said he, it is my
calling, and consequently my duty; but as you have
made this voyage for a trial, you see what ill luck
heaven has set before your eyes; and perhaps our
miseries have been on your account, like Jonah in
the ship of Tarshish. But, pray, what are you, and
on what account did you go to sea? Upon which. I
very freely declared my whole story; at the end of
which he made this exclamation, Ye sacred powers!
what had I committed that such a wretch should en-
ter into my ship, to heap upon me such a deluge of
miseries! But soon recollecting himself, Young
man, said he, if you do not go back, depend upon it,
wherever you go, you will meet with disasters, and
disappointments, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you. And so we parted.

I thoughtat first to return home; but shame oppos-
ed that good notion, as thinking I should he laughed
at by my neighbours and acquaintances. So strange
is the nature of youth! They are not ashamed to
sin, but yet ashamed to repent, and so far from being
sorry for those actions for which they may be account-
ed fools, they think it folly to return to their duty,
which is the principal mark of wisdom. In short, I
travelled up to London, resolving upon a voyage, and
a voyage I soon heard of, by my acquaintance with a
captain who took a fancy to me, to go to the Coast of -
Guinea. Having some money and appearing like a
gentleman, I went on board, not as a common sailor or
foremast-man, nay, the commander agreed I should
30 that voyage with him without any expense; that
I should be his messmate and companion, and that l
was welcome to carry any thing with me, and make
the best merchandise I could.

I blessed my happy fortune, and humbly thanked
my captain for his offer, and acquainting my friends
in Yorkshire, forty pounds were sent me, the great-
est part of which my dear father and mother contrib-
uted, with which I bought toys and trifles as the
captain directed me. My captain also taught me
navigation, how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and led me into the
knowledge of several useful branches of the mathe-
matics. And indeed this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pound
nine ounces of gold dust, for my adventure, which
produced, at my return to London, almost three
hundred pounds; but in this voyage I was extremely
sick, being thrown into a violent fever, through ex-
cessive heat, trading upon the coast from the latitude
of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.

But, alas! my dear friend, the captain, soon de-
parted this life after his arrival. This was a sensible
grief to me; yet I resolved to go another voyage .
with his mate, who had now got command of the ship. 3
This proved a very unsuccessful one; for though I
did not carry a hundred pounds of my late acquired
Wealth, (so that I had two hundred pounds left,
which I rcposed with the captain's widow, who was
an honest gentlewoman,) yet my misfortunes in this
unhappy voyage were very great. For our ship sail-
ing towards the Canary Islands, we were chased by
a Salee rover; and in spite of all the haste we could
make, by crowding as much canvass as our yards
could spread, or our masts carry, the pirate gained
upon us, so that we prepared ourselves to fight.Pages
9 - 12
Missing
From
Original
thing hanging over his shoulder, which was a crea-
ture he had shot, like a bare, but different in colour,
and with longer legs; however we were glad of it,
for it proved wholesome and nourishing meat; but
what added to our joy was, my boy assured me there
was plenty of water, and that he " saw no wild
mans." And greater still was our comfort when we
found fresh water in the creek where we were when
the tide was out, without going so far up into the
country.

In this place I began to hope that I should meet
some of the English trading vessels, who would re-
lieve and take us in.

The place I was in, was no doubt, that wild country
inhabited only by a few, that lies between the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominions and the negroes. It
is filled with wild beasts, and the Moors use it for
hunting chiefly. From this place I thought I saw
the top of the mountain Tenerifi'e, in the Canaries,
which made me try twice to attain it, but as often

was I driven back, and so forced to pursue my for-
tune along shore.

Early one morning, we came to an anchor undera
little point of land, but pretty high; and the tide be-
.ginning to flow, we lay ready to go further in; but
Xury, whose youthful and penetrating eyes were
sharper than mine, in a soft tone desired me to keep
far from land, lest we should be devoured; "For
look yonder master, and see de dreadful monster
fast asleep on de side of de hill." Accordingly look-
ing where he pointed, I espied a fearful monster in
deed. It was a terrible great lion that lay on shore
covered as it were by a shade of a piece of the hill
"Xury," said I, "you shall go on shore and kill
him." But the boy looked amazed. "Me kill him!"
says he, "be eat me at one mouth," meaning one

2
mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and charg-
ing my biggest gun with two slugs, and a good charge
of- powder, I took the best aim I could to shoot him
through the head; but his leg lying over his nose, the
slug broke his knee-bone. The lion awaking with.
the pain, got up, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever heard; but taking my second
'piece, I shot him through the head, and then he lay
struggling for life. Upon this, Xury took heart, and
desired my leave to go on shore. " Go then," said I.
Upon which, taking a little gun in one hand, he swam
to shore with the other, and coming close to the lion
put a period to his life, by shooting him again through
the head.

But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to eat. Xury was like a cham-
pion, and comes on board for a hatchet to cut off the
head of his enemy; but wanting strength to perform
it, he cut off and brought me a foot. I bethought me,
however, that this skin would be of use. This cost
Xury and me a whole day: when spreading it on the
tap of our cabin, the hot beams of the sun effectually
dried it in two day's time, and it afterwards served me
for a bed to lie on.

And now we sailed southerly, living sparingly on
our provisions, and went no oftener on shore than '
we were obliged for fresh water, in hopes to meet
some European ship. If Providence did not favour '
me, my next course was to seek for the islands, or
lose my life among the negroes; in a word, either I
must meet with some ship or certainly perish. '

One day, as we were sailing along, we saw peopie
stand on the shore looking at us; we could also per-
ceive they were black, and stark naked. I was
inglined to go on shore; but Xury cried, No, no;
however, I approached nearer, and found they ran
along the shore by me a long way. They had no
weapons in their hands, except one, who had along
stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with which
thev could kill at a great distance. I talked to them
by signs, and made them sensible I wanted some-
thing to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat,
while two of them ran up into the country, and in
less than half an hour came back, and brought with
them two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, which
we kindly accepted; and to prevent any fears on
either side, they brought the food to the shore, laid
it down, then went and stood a great way off, till we
{etched it on board and then came close to us again.

But while we were returning thanks to them, being
all we could afford, two mighty creatures came from
the mountains, one as it were pursuing the other
with great fury, which we were the rather inclined to
believe, as they seldom appear but in the night, and
both these swiftly passing by the negroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly swimming about, as though the
diversion of the waters had put a stop to their fierce-
ness. At last one of them coming nearer to my boat
han I expected, or desired, I shot him directly
through the head, upon which he stink immediately,
yot rising again, he would have willingly madeto
the shore, but between the wound and the struggling
of the water, he died before he could reach it.

It is impossible to express the consternation the ,
poor negroes were in at the firing of my gun: much
ess can I mention their surprise, when they per-
ceived the creature to be slain by it. I made signs to
them to draw near it with a rope, and then gave it to
them to haul on shore. It was abeautiful leopard, which
made me desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to covet.the carcase, I freely gave it to them. As
for the other leopard, 'it made shore. and ran with
a prodigious swiftness out of sight. The negroes
having kindly furnished me with water, and with
what roots and grains their country afi'orded, I took
my leave, and, after eleven days' sail, came in sight
of the Cape de Verd. But the great distance I was
from them, and fearing contrary winds would prevent
me reaching them, I began to grow melancholy and -
dejected; when upon a sudden Xury cried out, " Mas-
.er, Master," looking as afl'righted as if it was his
master's ship sent in search of us. But I soon dis-
covered she was a Portuguese ship. Upon which I
strove for life to come up to them. But in vain had
it been, if through their perspective glasses, they had
not perceived us, and shortened their sail to let us
come in. Encouraged at this, I set up my patron's
ancient. and fired a gun, both as signals of distress;
upon which they very kindly lay to, so that in three
hours' time I came up with them. They spoke to me
in Portuguese, Spanish, and French, but none of
these did I understand, till at length a Scotch sailor
called, and then I told him I was an Englishman,
who had escaped from the Moors at Salee, upon
which they took me kindly on board, with all my
effects. 0

Having a pleasant voyage to the Brazils, we ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or, All Saints
Bay, in twenty-two days after. And here I cannot
forget the generous treatment of the captain. He
would take nothing for my passage, gave me twenty
ducats for the leopard's skin, and thirty for the lion's.
Every thing he caused to be delivered, and what I
would sell, he bought. In short, I made 220 pieces
of my cargo, and with this stock I entered once
more, as I may say into the scene of life.

To be brief, I bought a settlement, next to an hon-
est and kind neighbour, born at Lisbon, of English
parents, whose plantation joining to mine, we im-
proved very amicably-- together. Both our stocks
were low; and for two years we planted only for
food; but the third year we planted some tobacco,
and each of us dressed a large piece of ground for
the ensuing year for planting sugar-canes.

I was in some measure settled, before the captain
who took me up departed from the Brazils. One
day I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in getting it sent out
to me; to which the good gentleman readily con-
seated, but would only have me send {or half my
money, lest it should miscarry, which, if it did. I
might still have the remainder to support me; and
so taking letters of procuration t'rom me, bid me
trouble myself no further about it.

And indeed he not only procured the money I had
drawn for upon my captain's widow, but sent me
over a servant, with a cargo proportionable to my
condition. He also sent me tools of all sorts, iron
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation.

Wealth now increasing on me, and uncommon
success crowning my prosperous labours, I might
have rested happy in that middle state of life my fa-
ther so often recommended ; yet nothing would con-
tent me. Having lived four years in Brazil, I had
.- not only learned the language, but contracted ac-
quaintance with the most eminent planters, and even
with the merchants of St. Salvadore, three of whom
came one morning to me saying they had a secret
proposal to make. After enjoining me to secrecy,
they told me they had a mind to fit out a ship, to go
'to Guinea, in order to stock the plantation with no-
groes, which as they could not be publicly sold, the
would divide among them , and if I would go the
sneercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part.
I should have an equal share of the negroes, without
providing an stock. The thing indeed was fair
enough, had been in another condition: however.
I could not resist the pawn], but accepted the offer,
upon condition of their looking after my plantation.

The ship being fitted out, and all things ready, we
set sail the first of September, 1659. We sailed
northward upon the coast, from whence going farther.
into the ocean out of the sight of land, we steered as
though we were bound for the island Fernand de
Noremba, leaving the islands on the east, and then
it was we met with a terrible tempest, which con-
tinued for twelve days successively. so that the winds
carried us wheresoever they pleased. In this per-
plexity one of our men died, and a man and a boy
were washed overboard. When the weather cleared' >>'
up a little, we found ourselves upon the coast of
Guinea. Upon this the captain gave reasons for
returning, which I opposed, counselling him to stand
' away for Barbadoes, which as I supposed might be
' attained in fifteen days. So altering our course, we
sailed north-west and by west in order to reach the
Leeward Islands; but a second storm succeeding,
drove us to the westward, so that we were justly
afraid of falling into the hands of cruel savages, or "
the paws of the devouring beasts of pray.

In this great distress, one of the men, early in the
morning, cried out, Land! land! which he had no
sooner said, than our ship struck upon a sand bank,
and, in a moment, the sea broke over her in such a
manner that we expected we should perish immedi-
ate] . We knew not where we were, or upon what
lan we were driven, whether it was an island, or
the main. inhabited 'or not inhabited, and we could
not so much as hope that the ship would hold out
many minutes. without breaking in pieces, unless thenonmsox cnosoz. 19

hind by a miracle should turn about immediately.
While we stood looking at one another, expecting
deatn overy moment, the mate lays hold of the boat,
and with the help of the rest got her flung over the
ship's side; into this we all got, being eleven in num-
ber, and committed ourselves to God's mercy. and
the wild sea. And now we saw that this last-effort
would not be a sufficient protection from death; so
high did the sea rise, that it was impossible the boat
should live. As to making a sail, we had none, nei-
ther if we had could we make use of any. So that
when we had rowed or .rather were driven about a
league and a half, a raging wave, like a lofty moun-
tain came rolling astern of us, and took us with such
fury, that at once it overset the boat. Thus being
swallowed up in a moment, we had only time to call
upon the awful name of God, and to implore, in dying
ejaculations, his infinite mercy to receive our depart-
ing souls.

Men are generally counted insensiblc, when strug-
gling in the pangs of death; but while I was over~
whelmed with water, I had the most dreadful appre-
hensions imaginable, for the joys of heaven, and the
torments of hell, seemed to present themselves before
me in these dying agonies, and even small space of
time, as it were, between life and death. I was going
I thought I knew not whither, in a dismal gulf un-
known, and as yet unperceived, never to behold my
friends, nor the light of this world any more! I
strove however to the last extremity, while all my
companions were overpowered and entomhed'in the
deep; and it was with great difficulty I kept my
_ breath till the wave spent itself, and, retiring back,

left me on the shore half dead with the water]! had
taken in. As soon as I got on my feet, I ran a! fast
In I could, lest another wave should pursue me, and

"1'20 LIFE AND ansz'rvnss or

carry me back again. But for all the haste I made,
I could not avoid it, for the sea came after me like a
high mountain, or a furious enemy; so that my busi-
ness was to hold my breath, and by raising myself on
the water, to save myself by swimming. The next
dreadful wave buried me at once twenty or thirty feet
deep, but, at the same time, carried me with a mighty
force and swiftness towards the shore, when raising
myself, I held out as well as possible, till at length, the
Water having spent itself, began to return, at which I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with my feet,
I took to my heels. Thus being served twice more,
I was at last dashed against a piece of rock, in such a
manner as left me senseless, but recovering a little -
before the return of the wave, which no doubt would
then overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till
those succeeding waves abated: and then fetchv
ing another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before any more
could overtake me, I reached the main land, where
clambering up the cliffs of the shore, tired and al-
most spent, I sat down on the grass, free from the
danger of the foaming ocean.

No tongue can express the transports that my soul
felt at this happy deliverance. I was wrapt up in ,
contemplation, and often lifted up my hands with the
profoundest humility, to the Divine Power for saving
my life; when the rest of my companions were all
drowned. And now I began to cast my eyes around,
and to behold what place I was in, and what I had
next to do. I could see no house nor people; I was
wet,-yet had no clothes to shift me; hungry and thirs-
ty, yet nothing to eat or drink, no weapon to
destroy any creature for my sustenance, nor defend
myself against devouring beasts; in short, I had
nothing but a knife. a tobacco pipe, and a box
half filled with tobacco. The darksome night com-
ing upon me, increased my fears of being devoured
by wild creatures, my mind was plunged into des-
pair, and having no prospect, as I thought, of life
before me, I prepared for another kind of death than
what I had lately escaped. I walked about a fur-
long, to see if I could find any fresh water, which I
did, to my great joy; and taking a quid of tobacco
to prevent hunger, I got up into a thick bushy tree.
and seating myself so that I could not fall. a deep
sleep overtook me, and for that night, buried my
sorrows in a quiet repose.

It was broad day the next morning before I awoke,
when I not only perceived the tempest was ceased,
but saw the ship driven almost as far as the rock
before-mentioned, which was about a mile from the
place where I was.--\Vhen I came down from my
apartment in the tree, I perceived the ship's boat
two miles distant on my right hand, lying on shore
as the waves had cast her. I thought to have got
to her; but there being an inlet of water about half
a mile's breadth between it and me, I returned again
towards the ship, as hoping to find something for
my more immediate subsistance. About noon, when
the sea was so calm that I could come within a quaro
tcr of a mile of her, it was to my grief I perceived,
that if we had kept on board, all our lives would
have been saved. These thoughts, and my solitude,
drew tears from my eyes, though all in vain. So
resolving to get to the ship, I stripped and leaped:
into the water; when swimming round her, [was
afraid I could not get any thing to lay hold of; but
it was my good fortune to espy asmallpiece of rope
hanging down so low, that, by the help of it, though
with great difliculty, I got into the ship. Here I
found thatthe ship was bilged. and bad a great deal of
water in her, her stern was lifted up against a bank,
and her head almost in the water. All her quarter,
and what was there, were free and dry. The provi-
sions I found in good order, and loosing no time, ate
' while I was doing other things. I also found some
rum, of which I took a little; and now I wanted for
nothing except a boat, which indeed was all, to carry
away what was needful for me.

Necessity occasions a quickness of thought. We
had several spare yards, a spare topmast or two, and
two or three large spars of wood. With these I fell
to work, and slung as many of them overboard as I
could manage, tying every one of them with a rope
that they might not drive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side and tied four of them fast to-
gether at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them cross ways,
I found it would hear me but not any considerable
weight. Upon which I went to work again, cutting
a spare topmast into three lengths, adding them to
my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains. I
then, first laying upon it all the planks and boards I
could get, next lowered down three of the seamen's
chests, after I had filled them with bread, rice, three
Dutch cheese, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, and'
some European corn, what little the rats had spared;
and for liquors, I found several cases of bottles, in '
which were some cordial waters, and four or five-
gallons of arrack. By this time the tide beginning'
to 'flow, I perceived my coat, waistcoat and shirt
swim away, which I had left on shore; as far my
linen, breeches, and stockings, I swam with them to
the ship; but I soon found clothes enough, though
I took no more than I wanted for the present. My
eyes were chiefly on tools to work with, and after a
long search, I found out the carpenter's chest, whichaosmson cannon. V . 5'

I got safe down on my raft. I then looked for arms
and ammunition, and in the great cabin, found two
good fowling pieces, two pistols, several powder
horns filled, a small bag of shot, and two rusty
swords. I likewise found three barrels of powder,
' two of which were good, but the third had taken
water, also two or three broken oars, two saws, an
axe, and a hammer. I then put to sea, and in gettin
to shore had three encouragements. l. A smoo
calm sea: 2. The tide rising and setting in to the
shore : 3. The little wind there was blowing towards
land. After I had sailed about a mile, I found the
raft driving a little distance from the place where I
first landed, and when I perceived an opening of the
land, with a strong current of the tide running into
it, upon which I kept the middle of the stream. , But
great was my concern, when on a sudden the fore-
part of my raft ran aground. But after some time,
the rising of the water caused the raft to float again,
and coming up a little river, with land on both sides,
I landed in a little cave, as near the mouth as possi-
ble, the better to discover a sail, if any such provi-
dentially passed that way.

Not far off, I espjed a hill of stupendous height,
surrounded with smaller hills about it, and thither I
was resolved to go and view the country, that I
might see what part was best to fix my habitation
- in. Accordingly, arming myself with a pistol, a
fowling piece, powder, and ball, I ascended the
mountain. There I perceived I 'was in an island,
encompassed by the sea, no distant lands to be seen,
but scattering rocks that lay to the west; that it
seemed to be a barren place, and as I thought only
inhabited by wild beasts. I perceived abundance
of fowls, but was ignorant of what kind, or whether
good for nourishment I shot one of them at my

.--
s. .

Faith, which occasioned a confused screaming
among the other birds, and I found it, by its colour
and beak, to be a kind of hawk, but its flesh was per-
fect carrion.

When I came to my raft, I brought my effects
on shore, which work spent that day entirely; and
fearing that some cruel beast might devour me in the
night time while I slept, I made a kind of hot, or
barricade, with the chest and boards I had brought
on shore. That night I slept very comfortably; and
the next morning my thoughts were employed to
make a further attempt to the ship, and bring away
what necessaries I could find, before another storm
should break her in pieces. Accordingly, I got on
board as before, and prepared a second raft, far bet-
ter than the first; upon which I brought away the
carpenter's stores, two or three bags full of nails, a
great jack-screw, a dozen or two of hatchets, and a
grind-stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of musket-bullets, another fowling piece,
a small quantity of powder, and a large bag full of
small shot. Besides these, I took all the men's
clothes I could find, a spare fore-top-sail, a ham-
mock, and some bedding; and thus completed my _
second cargo, I made all the ha'ste on shore I could,
fearing some wild beast might destroy what I had
there already. But I only found a little wild cat
'litting on one of the chests, who not seeming to fear
me or the gun thatI presented at her, I threw her a
piece of biscuit, which she instantly ate and departed.

When I had got these efl'ects on shore, I went to
work, in order to make me a little tent with the sail
and some poles, which I had cut for the purpose, and
having finished it, what things might be damaged
by the weather, I brought in, piling all the empty
chests and casks in a circle, the better to fortifyitaonrnson causor. 25

against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After
this, I blocked up the doors with some boards, and
an empty chest turned the long way out. I then
charged my gun and pistol, and laying my bedon
the ground, slept as comfortably till the next morn-
ing, as though I had been in a christian country.

Now, though I had enough to subsist me a long
time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance, and
fearing that both ammunition and provision might
be spent before such a thing happened, I saved as
much as I could, and so long as the ship remained in
that condition, I daily brought away one necessary or
other; particularly, the rigging, sails, and cord-
age, some twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar,
3 barrel of meal, three casks of rum, and indeed
what was most welcome to me, a whole hogshead of
bread.

The next time' I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried off a hawser whole, with a great deal of iron
work, and made another raft; but this being so un-
wieldy, by the too heavy burden upon it, and I not
being able so dexterously to guide it as the former,
both my cargo and myself were overturned. For
my part all the damage I sustained was a wet skin;
and at low water, after much labour in diving, I got
up most of the cables, and some pieces of iron. Thir-
teen days had I now been on the island, and eleven
days on board, bringing away. all that was possible
As I was going the twelfth time, the wind began to
rise ; however, I ventured at low water, and rummag-
ing in the cabin, in a locker, I found several razors,
scissors, and some dozens of knives and forks, and in
another. thirty-six pounds in pieces of eight, silver and
gold. I wrapped the money up in a pieceof canvas,
and began to think of making another "0:31.331
soon perceived the wind gaginning to rise "afresh

\
gale blowing from the shore, and the sky overcast
with clouds and darkness. So thinking a raft to be
in vain, I let myself into the water with what things
I had about me ; and it was with great difficulty I got
ashore, when soon after it blew a fearful storm '

That night I slept very contentedly in my little
tent, surrounded with all my effects; but when I looked
outin the morning, no more ship was to be seen. This
much surprised me for the present: yet, when I con
sidered that I had lost no time, abated no pains, and
had got every thing useful out of her, I comforted
myself in the best manner, and entirely submitted to
Divine Providence.

My next thoughts were, how I should defend and
secure myself from savages and wild beasts, if any
such were in the island.

\Vhen I considered the ground where I was, that
it was marshy, and had no fresh water near it, my
resolutions were to search for a soil healthy and well
watered, where I might not only be sheltered from
the sun's scorching heat, but be more conveniently
situated, as well to be secured from wild men. and -
beasts of prey, as more easy to discover any distant .
sail, should it ever so happen.

And indeed it was not long before I had my desire.
I found a little plain near a rising hill, the front to-
wards which, being as steep as a house side, nothing
could descend on me from the tap.

On the side of this rock was a little hollow place,
resembling the entrance or door of a cave. Just be-
fore this place, on the circle of the green I resolved
my tent should stand. This plain did not much ex-
ceed a hundred yards broad, and about twice as long,
like a delightful green before my door, with a pleas-
ing, though irregular descent every way to the low
grounds by the sea side. sheltered from the excessiveaomxst : causon. 27

heat of the sun. After this, I drew a semicircle,
twenty yards in diameter, driving down two rows of
- strong stakes not six inches from each other. Then,
with the pieces of cable which I had cut on board, I
regularly laid them in a circle between the piles, up
to their tops, which were more than five feet out of
the earth, and then drove another row of piles, look-
mg within side against them, between two or three
feet high, which made me conclude it a little
castle, impregnable by men and beasts. And for my
better security I would have no door, but entered in
and came out by the help of a ladder. which I also
'made.

Here was my fence and fortress, into which I car-
ried all my riches, ammunition, and stores. After
which, working on the rock, what with the dirt and
stones I dug out, I not only raised my ground two
feet, but made a little cellar to my mansion-house
and this cost me many days' labour and pains. One
day in particular, a shower of rain falling, thunder
and lightning ensued, which put me in terror iest my
powder should take fire, and not only hinder my
neCessary subsistence, by killing my food, but even
blow up me and my habitation. To prevent which,
I fell to making boxes and bags, in order to separate
it, having by me near 1501b. weight. And thus being
established as king of the island, every day! went
out with my gun to see what I could kill that was fit
to eat. I soon perceived numbers of goats, but very

shy ; yet having watched them narrowly, and seeing I.
could better shoot off the rocks than when in the low
grounds, I happened to shoot a she- oat suckling-a
young kid; which, not thinking its am slain, am
hy her unconcerned and when I took the dead was
up, the young one followed me even to the enclomw

I lifted the kid over the pales, and would willie: .
ly have kept it alive, but finding it could not be
brought to eat, I was forced to slay it also for my
subsistence.

Thus, entered into as strange a state as ever any '
man was in, I had most melancholy apprehensions
concerning my deplorable condition; and many times
the tears would plentifnlly run down my face. when
I considered how I was debarred from all communi-
cation with human kind. Yet while these desponding
cogitations would seem to make me accuse Prov)-
".ence, other good thoughts would interpose and re-
nrove me after this manner; " \Vell, supposing you
are desolate, is it not better to be so, than totally per-
.sh? Why should you complain, when not only year
.ii'e is preserved, but the ship driven into your reach,
.1! order to take what was necessary out of her for a
subsistence?" But to proceed: it was, by the account
I kept, the thirtieth of September,'when I first landed
on this island. About twelve days after, fearing lest
I should lose my reckoning of time, nay even forget
the sabbath days for want of pen, ink, and paper, I '
carved with a knife upon a large post, in great letters,
" I came on shore, Sept. 30, 1659," and set it up in
the similitude of a cross, on the sea shore where I
landed. Every day I cut a notch with my knife on
the sides of the square post, and that on the sabbath
was as long again as the rest, and every first day .21
the month as long again as that long one. In this
'manner I kept my calender, weekly, monthly, <<-
yearly reckoning of time. 'But had I made a more
strict search (as I did afterwards.) I need nat-
have set up this mark. For among the parcels 2:1>>-
longing to the gunner, carpenter, and captain's
mate, I found those very thinng I wanted; particu-
larly pens, ink, and paper; also I tound two or three
compasses: some mathematical instruments, dials,I

aonmsox causon. , 29

perspective glasses, books'of navigation, three Eng-

: lish Bibles, and several other good books, which I
carefully put up. Here I cannot but call to mind. our
having a dog and two cats on board, whom I made
inhabitants with me in my castle. Though one might' :
think I had all the necessaries that were desirable, ---
yet still I found several things wanting. My. ink was .
daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and thread to
mend or keep my clothes together: and particularly
a 'spade, pick-axe, or shovel, to remove the earth.

'It was a year before I finished my little bulwark;
and having some intervals of relaxation, after my
daily wandering abroad for provisions, I drew up this
plan alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind
me of the miseries and the blessings of my life, under
so many various circumstances.

ner. soon.

I am cast upon a de- But et I am preserv-.
solate island, having no ed whi e my companions
prospect of a welcome have perished in the rag- .
deliverance. How mise- ing sea.
rable am I, singled out Yet set apart to be-
from the enjoyment or spared from death. And
company of all mankind. He, who has so preserv-

' ed me can deliver me
from this condition.

' Like a hermit (rather However, I have food
should I say a lonely an to eat, and even a happy .
chorite,) amI forced from prospect of subsistenc i,
human conversation. whilst life endures. "g
, My clothes, after some At present I enjo
time will be worn out, what is absolutely nee .
and then I shall have ful; and the climate is so

none .to cover me. hot, that had I ever so
many I should hardly _
wear them.30

When my ammunition
is wasted, then shall I
remain without any de-
fence against wild men
and beasts.

I have no creature, no
soul to speak to; none
to beg assistance from.
Some comfort would it
be to resound my woes
where I am understood,
and beg assistance where

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 01'

Yet even thus, I see
no danger of any to hurt
me, as in Africa; and
what if I had been cast
away upon that coast.

Is there not God to
converse with, and is he
not able to deliver thee?
already has he afi'orded
thee sustenance and put
it in thy power to pro-

vide for thyself, till he

I might hope for relief. sends thee a deliverance.

And now, easing, my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible.
I must here add to the description I have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf wall against
the outside of it, I thatched it so close as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather; I also im-
proved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
sage and a door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair'and table, and so began to study such
mechanical arts as seemed to me practicable. When
I wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a tree with
my hatchet, making it as thin with my axe as possi-
ble, and then smooth enough with an adze, to answer
my designs; yet though I could make no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length of time,
:1 gotLboards enough to shelter all my stores, every
,5; :thin'g being regularly placed, and my guns securely
hanging against the side of a rock. This made it a
'very pleasant sight to me, being the resultofvast
labour and great diligence; which leaving for a
while. and me to the enjoyment of, I shall give the
reader an account of some parts of my journal from
the day of my landing, till the setting of my habita-
tion, as heretofore shown.

 

JOURNAL.

Snr'rnnann 30th, 1659, I, unhappy Robinson Cruo
soe, having sufl'ered shipwreck, was driven on this
desolate island, which I named the Desolate Island
of Despair, the rest of my companions being swal-
lowed up in .the,tempestuous ocean. The next day
I spent in consideration of my unhappy circum-
stances, having no prospect but of death, either to be
starved with hunger, or devoured by wild beasts or
merciless savages.

Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort. I be-
held the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had, that
when the storm was abated I might be able to get
some food and necessaries out of her; which I con-
ceived were not damaged, because the ship did stand
upright. At this time, I lamented the loss of m
companions, and our misfortune in leaving the vesse
When I perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I
waded through the sands, then swam aboard, the
weather being very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.

To the 14th of this month, my time was employed
in making voyages every tide, getting what I could
out of the ship. The weather very wet and uncer-
tain.

Oct. 24. My raft, and all the goods thereon were
overset; yet I recovered most again at low water.

Oct. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing was
seen of her but the wreck at low water. .This day'
I secured my goods from the inclemency'ot' the
weather
Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could find a.
place convenient for my abode: I fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half moon, intendin
to erect a wall fortified with piles, lined within wi
pieces of cables, and covered with turf.

Nov. 3. I shot two wild fowls, resembling ducks.
which were good to eat, and in the afternoon made
me a table. >
. Nov. 4. I began to live regularly. In the morn~

ing I allowed myself two or three hours to walk out
with my gun; I then worked till near eleven o'clock;
and afterwards refreshed myself with what I had to
eat. From twelve to two, I would lie down to sleep.
Extreme sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.

Nov. 5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot a
wild cat witha soft skin, but her flesh was good for
nothing. The skins of those killed I preserved.-- -
On my return I perceived many wild birds, and was
terrified by some seals which made ofl' to sea.

Nov. 6. Completed my table.

Nov. 7. Fair weather, I worked to. the 12th, but
omitted the 11th, which according to my calculation
I supposed to be Sunday.

Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-

ged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and
. wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to supply the place
of the first, but with all my art I could not make a
wheel-barrow.
_ Nov. 19. It was my fortune to find a tree resem-
.bling what the Brazilians call an iron tree. I had
like to spoil my axe with cutting it, it being very
hard, and exceedingly heavy; yet with much labour
and industry I made a sort ofa spade out of it. .

Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried.
on my business; eighteen days Lallowed for enlar-
ging my cave, that it might serve'me not only for a
ware-house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I com-
monly lay in the tent, unless the weather was so rainy
that I could not lie dry. So wet would it be at cer-
tain seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within the
pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees resembling a thatch. "

Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fin-
ished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me before I could make it firm and durable.

Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang every
thing out of the way.

Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then
made a sort of dresser, and another table.

Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats, shot
one, wounded another; I led it home in a string,
bound up its leg, and cured. it,in a little time; at
length, it became so tame and familiar as to feed be-
fore the door, and follow me where I pleased. This
put me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order
to supply me with food after my ammunition was spent.

Dec. 2'3. 29. 30. The weather being excessively hot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep
within doors. '

Jan. 3. to 14. My employment this time was to fin-
ish the wall before described, and search the island.
discovered a kind of pigeons, like our house-pi one,
in a nest among the rocks. I brought' them ome,
nursed them till they could fly and then they left me;
After this. I shot some, which. proved excellent food.
Some time 1 spent vainly contriving to make a cook, .
I may well sav it was in vain, because I- epnldneathee

I'M
.,
joint the staves, nor fix the heads, so as to make it
tight: so leaving that, I took some goats tallow I had
by me and a little oakum for the wick, and provided
myself with a lamp, which served instead of can-
dles.

But now a very strange event happened. For be-
ing in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag which was used to hold corn (asI
supposed.) for the fowls; so immediately resolving to
put gunpowder into it, I shook all the husks and
dirt upon one side of a rock, little expecting what the
consequence would be. The rain had fallen plenti-
fully a few days before: and about a month after, to '
my great amazement, something began to look out
very green and flourishing; and when I came to view
it more nicely, every day as it grew, I found about ten
or twelve ears of green barley of the very same shape
and make as that in England.

I can scarcely express the agitation of my mind at
this sight. Hitherto, I had looked upon the actions
of this life no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune. But now, the appearance
of this barley, flourishing in a barren soil, and my ig-
norance in not conceiving how it should come there,
made me conclude, " that miracles were not yet ceas-
ed ;" nay, I even thought that God had appointed it to
grow there without any seed, purely for my suste-
nance in this miserable and desolate island. And in-
deed such great efi'ect had this upon me, that it often
- made me melt into tears through a grateful sense of
God's mercies; and the greater still when I perceiv-
ed about this little field of barley, some rice stalks.
also wonderfully flourishing. 0

While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be some more com in the island; and therefore
made a diligent search narrowly among the rocks;
but not being able to find any. on a sudden it came
into my mind, how I had shaken the husks of corn
out of the bag and then my admiration ceased, with
my gratitude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was
but natural, and not to be conceived a miracle ; though
even the manner of its preservation might have
made me own it as a wonderful event of God's kind
providence.

It was about the latter end of June when the ears
-of corn ripened which I laid up very carefully, together
with 20 or 30 stalks of rice; expecting one day I
should reap the fruit of my labour; yet four years
expired before I could allow myself to eat any barley
bread, and much longer time before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and industry for
three or four months, at last I finished my house on
the 14th of April, having no way to go into it, but
by a ladder against the wall.

April 16. I finished my ladder, and ascended it;
afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other
side, and decended into my new habitation, where I

had space enough, and so fortified, that nothing could
attack me without scaling the walls.

But what does all human art and industry avail,
if the blessing of God does not crown our labo ?

0r who can stand before the Almighty, whe e
stretcheth forth his arm? For one time as I was at
the entrance of my cave, there happened such a
dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof of the
cave came tumbling about my ears, but the posts
seemed to crack terribly at the same time. This put
me in a great amazement; and running to the ladder
and getting over the wall, I plainly knew it was an
earthquake, the place I stood on sustaining three ter-
rible shocks in less than three minutes. But judge
of my terror when I saw the top of a great rock roll
into the sea; I then expected the island wouid be
swallowed up every moment; and what made the
scene still more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown
into the most violent agitations and disorders by
this tremendous accident.

For my part, I expected every moment to be
swallowed up. At the moving of the earth, I was
as it were sea-sick; and very much afraid lest the
rock, under which was my fence and habitation,
should overwhelm me and it in a lasting tomb.

It was notlong after, when a horrible tempest arose
attended at the same time with a hurricane of wind.
Three hours did this storm continue, and in so violent
a manner as to tear the very trees up by the roots,
which was succeeded byabnndance of rain. 'When the
tempest was over. I went to my tentbutthe rain coming
on in a furious manner, I was obliged to take shelter in
the cave, where I was forced to cut a'channel through
my fortification, to let the water out. It continued '
raining all that night, and some time the next day.
These accidents made me resolve, as soon as the
weather cleared up, to build me a little hut. in some
open place, walled round to defend me from wild
creatures and savages; not doubting, but at the next
earthquake, the mountain would fall on my habitation
and me, and swallow up all in' its bowels.

April. 16--20. These days I spent in contriving
how and in what manner I should fix my place of
abode. All this while, I was under the most dreadful
apprehensions. When I looked round my habita
tion every thing I found in its proper place. I had
several debates whether I should move or not; but
at length resolved to stay where I was, till I found
'out a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.

April 22. When I began to put my resolutions in
practice, I was stopped for want of tools and instru

I11.0an5011 01111502. 37

ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchets
were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a full week
to make my grindstone of use to me; and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.

April 30. My bread falling short, I allowed my-
self but one biscuit a day.

May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
these, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn ofl',
and washed a great distance ashore, but the rest lay
in the sands. This, I suppose, was occasioned by
the earthquake. I now resolved to keep my old
place of abode: and also to get to the ship that day,
but found it impossible.

May 3. This day I went on board, and with my
saw, sawed off one of the beams, which kept her
quarter~<leck. I then cleared the sand till flood. '

May 4. I caucrht some fish, but they were not
wholesome. The!3 same day, I also caught a young
dolphin.

.Mau" o. This day also I repaired to the wreck,
and saw ed another piece 0! timber; and when the
flood came, I made a float of three great planks,
which were driven ashore by the tide.

JlIay 6--9. These days, I brought off the iron
bolts, opened the deck with the iron crow, and car-
r1ed two planks to land, having made a way into the
very middle of the wreck.

May lO--l3. All this time I spent in bringing off
great quantities of iron and tiniber.

Way 15. Took with me two hatchets on purpose
to cut off some lead from the roll, but all 111 vain, for

t.:1y too low under water.

438 ml: AND antenna or

May 24. To' this day, I worked on the wreck,
and with great difiiculty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the first blowing tide.
several casks floated out, and several of the seamen's
chests; yet that day nothing came to land but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some pork in
it. I continued working to the l5th of June: (except
necessary times for food and rest,) and had I known
how to build a boat, and had I known how to build a
boat, I had timber and planks enough ; I had also a
hundred weight of sheet lead. '

June 16. As I "as wandering towards the sea-
side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, being the first
I had seen on the island, though, as I afterwards
found, there were many on the other side of it.

June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her threescore eggs, and her flesh the most savory -
and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.

June 18. I staid within this day, there being a
continual rain ; and it was somewhat more chilly and '
could than usual.

June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a trembling
and shivering.

June 20. Awake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish.

June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with dis-
mal apprehensions of my condition. Prayed to God
more frequently, but very confusedly.

June 22. Something better, but stir. uneasy in
my mind.

June 23. Again relapsed much as before.

June 24. Mended a second time.

June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cola
and hot fits, succeeded with faint sweats.

June 26. Better, but very weak; yetI scrambled
out, shot a she goat. brought it home, and broiledaoarnsorr cansoa. 39

some of it; I would willingly have stewed it and
made some broth, but had no pot.

June 27. All this day I was afflicted with an
ague; thirsty, yet could not help myself to water;
prayed to God in these words: "Lord; in pity look
upon me, Lord have mercy upon me, have mercy .
upon me 1" After this I fell aslee which, when I
awoke, I found had much refreshe mew

' I rose up, in apensive manner, being so thoughtful
that I could not go to sleep: and fearing the dread-
ful return of my distemper, it caused me to remem-
ber, that the Brazilians use tobacco for almost all
diseases. I then went to my chest, in order to find
some, where heaven, no ,doubt, directed me to find a
cure, both for soul and body; for there I found one
of the bibles, which, till this time, I had neither lei-
sure nor inclination to look into; I took both the
tobacco and that out of my chest, and laid them on
the-table. Several experiments did I try with the
tobacco. First, I took a piece of leaf, and chewed
it; but it being very green and strong, almost stupi-
fied me: next I steeped it in some rum an hour or
two, resolving when I went to bed, to take a dose
of it: and, in the third place, I burnt some over a
pan of fire, holding my nose over it as long as I could
endure it without suflication.

In the intervals of this operation, though my head
as giddy and disturbed with the tobacco, I took up
the Bible to read. No sooner did I open, but there
appeared to me these words, " Call on me in the day
of trouble and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt
glorify me."

At first, this sentence made a very deep impression
on my heart: but it soon were off again when .1 con-
sidered the word "deliver" was forei to me. And
:as the children of Israel said, when t ey wcrcpro-

   
 
    
   
    
 
 
  

I
mised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the
wilderness?" in the like manner I began to say, Can
God himself deliver me from this desolate Island?
However, the words would still return to my mind,

and after11a1ds made a greater impression upon me.
As it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed
my head, I was inclined to sleep; but before I would
lie down, I fell on my knees, and implored the pro-
mise that God had made to me in the holy Scriptures.
that, "if I called on him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me."

With much difiiculty I afterwards drank the rum,
wherein I had steeped the tobacco, which flying into
my head, threw me into such a profound sleep, that
it was three o'clock the next day before I awoke ; or
rather I believe, I slept two days, having certainly
lost a day in my account, and I could never tell any
other wav.

When I got up, my spirits were 111 ely and cheer-
ful; mys stomach much better, being very hungry;
and. in short, no fit returned the nextday, which was
the 29th, but I found mysell much altered for the
better.

July 3. The fit quit left me, but very weak. In
this condition, I often .thought of these words, "I.
will deliver thee :" and while at sometimes I would
think of the impossibility of it, other thoughts 11 ould
reprehend me, for disregarding the deliverances I had
received even from the most fo1lorn and distressed
condi..ion. I asked my self, what regard have I had
to God for his abundant mercies? "Have I done
my part. 7 " He has delivered me, but I have not glo-
1'1f1ed him :" as if I had said I had not owned and
been thankful for these as deliveranees, and how could
I expect greater. 7 So much did this sensibly touch
my heart, that I gave God thanks for my recovery
' from sickness in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving
to read a chapter every morning and night, as long
as my thoughts would engage me.

As soon as I set about this work seriously, I found
my heart deeply affected with the impiety of my past
life. After this, I begged of God to assist me with
his holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day,- ,
in perusing the Scriptures, I came to these words,
" He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give rec
pentance, and to give remission :" Immediately I
laid down the book, and, with uplifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried, " O blessed Jesus, thou son of
David ! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give
me repentance ;". And, now indeed, I prayed with a
true sense of my condition, and a more certain hope,
founded on the word of God. Now I had a different
sense of these words, " Call on me, and I will deliver
thee," that is from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinful soul, and not from a solitary
life: in a word, I came to this conclusion, that a dc
iiverance from sin was a much greater blessing than
a deliverance from affliction.

To the 14th of July, I walked about with my gun,
little and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greatest extremity of weakness. The applications
and experiments I used were perfectly new : neither
could I recommend them to any one's practice. For
though it carried off the fit, it very much weakened
me; and I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms and hurricanes of wind,
was most pernicious to health. I had now been above
ten months in the island; and as I had never seen

any of the human kind, I therefore accounted myseld.
A. ' ' '
as sole monarch; and as I grew better, having se~
cured my habitation to my mmd, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom, in order to make new dis-
coveries.

The 15th of July, I began my journey. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on
shore: and travelling farther, found,the tide went
no higher than two miles up, where'there was a little
brook of running water, on the bank of which were
many pleasant savannahs, or meadows, smooth, plain
and covered with grass. On the rising parts, where
I supposed the water did not reach, I perceived a
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong stalk.
Several other plants I likewise found, the virtue of
which I did not understand. I searched a long time
for the cassava root, which I knew the Indians in
that climate made their bread of; but all in vain.
There were several plants of aloes, though at that
time I knew not what they were: likewise I saw
several sugar-canes, but imperfect for want of culti-
vation. With these few discoveries, I came back
that night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.

The next day, being the 16th, going the same
way, but farther- than the day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
I perdeived difi'erent fruits in great abundance. Mel-
ons in plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of
grapes, ripe and very rich, spread over the trees.
You may imagine I was glad of this discovery, yet
ate very sparingly, lest I should throw myself into a
flux or fever. The grapes I found of excellent use;
for when I dried them in the sun, which preserved
them as dried raisins are kept, they proved very
wholesome and nourishing, and served me in those
seasons when no grapes were to be had.

The night drawing on space, I ascended up a tree.
and slept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I had slept out of my habitation. And when the
morning came, I proceeded with great pleasure on
my way, travelling about four miles, as I imagined,
by the length of the valley. At the end of this valley
I came to an opening, where the country seemed to
descend to the west; there I found a spring of fresh
water, proceeding out of the side of a hill, with its
crystal streams running directly east. And indeed
here my senses were charmed with the most beauti-
ful landscape nature could afford; for the country
appeared so flourishing, green and delightful, that to
me it seemed like a planted garden. I then descended
on the side of that delicious vale, when I found abun-
dance of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but
very wild and barren at that time. As for the limes,
they were delightful and wholesome, the juice of
which I afterwards used to mix in water, which made
it very cool and refreshing. And now I was resolved-
to carry home and lay up a store of grapes, limes,
and lemons, against the approaching wet season.
So laying them up in separate parcels, and then tak-
ing a few of each with me, I returned to my little
castle, after having spent three days in this journey.
Before I got home, the grapes were so bruised that
they were utterly spoiled; the limes indeed were
good, but of those, I could bring only a few.

July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again, but to my great surprise, found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there were wild
beasts thereabouts. To prevent this happening
again, I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the out branches of the tree, both
to keep them unhurt, and that they might cure and
dry in the sun; and having well loaded myself with44 urn axo ADVENTURES or

limes and lemons, I returned once more to my old
place of residence.

And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of this val-
ley, the pleasantness of its situation, its security from
storms. and the delightfulness of the adjacent woods,
I concluded I was settled in the worst part of the

\ country, and therefore was thinking to remove ... '
habitation.

But when I considered again, that though it was
pleasant, it was of? from the sea side, where there
was a possibility, some time or other, a ship might
either be driven or sail by; and that to inclose my-
self among hills and woods, must certainly put an end
to my hopes of deliverance; Iresolved to let my
castle remain where Providence had first placed it.
Yet, so delighted was I with this place, that I made
a little kind of bower, surroundingit with a double
hedge, as high as I could ,reach, well staked and
filled with bulrushes: and having spent a great part
of the month of July, I think it was the first of Au-
gust before I began to enjoy my labour.

August 3. Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them from the trees, and they proved excellent
good raisins of the sun: the most of which I carried
to my cave: and happy for me I did so, by whichI
saved the best part of my winter food.

August 14. This day it began to rain ; and though
I had made me a tent like the other, yet having no
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to
my old castle, the rain continued more or less every
day, till the middle of October; and sometimes so
violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days. This season I found my family to in
crease: for one of my cats that had run away from
me, and which I thought had been dead, returned45 - 48
Missing
From
Original
As I proceeded forward. I found this side of the
island much more pleasant than mine; the fields fra-
grant, adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grass,
together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long for one to be
my companion; but it was with great difliculty I
could knock one down with my stick; and I kept
him at home some years, before I could get him to
call me by name.

In the low grounds I found various sorts of hares
and foxes, as I took them to be, but much different
, from those in England. Several of these I killed,
but never ate them , neither indeed had I any occa-
sion: for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and.
grapes, I could defy any market to furnish me a bet-
ter table. In this Journey I did not travel above two
miles a day, because I took several turns and: pind-
ings, to see what discoveries I could make, returning
weary enough to the place were I designed to fist
all night, which was either 1n a tree, or to a place
whiche I surrounded with stakes, that no wild crea-
ture might suddenly surprise me. When I came to
the sea-shore, I was amazed to see the splendour of
it. Its strand was covered with shells of the most
beautiful fish. and constantly abounding with innu-
merable turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins. \I
mightb have shot as many as I pleased, but was spar-
ing of my ammunition, rather choosing to kill a she-
goat. which I did with much difficulty, on account of
the flatness of the country.

Now, though this Journey produced the most pleas-
ing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so much to
my liking, that I did not repine at my being seated
on the worst part of the island. I continued my
journey, travelling about twelve miles further towards

5
the east, where I set a great pile on the shore for a
mark, concluding that my next journey should bring
me to the other side of the island, east from my cas-
tle, and so round till I came to my post again. As I
had a constant view of the country, I thought I could
not miss my way; but scarce had I travelled three
miles, when I descended into a very large valley, so
surrounded with hills covered with wood, that having
no guide but the sun, and to add to my misfortune,
the weather proving very hazy, I was obliged to re-
turn to my post by the sea-side, and so backwards the
same way I came. In this journey my dog surprised
a kid, and would have killed it had I not prevented
him. As I had often been thinking of getting a kid
or two. and so raising a breed of tame goats to supply
me after my ammunition was spent, I took this op-
portunity of beginning: and, having made a collar
for this little creature, with a string made of rope-
yarn, I brought it to my bower, and there inclosed
and left llim; and having spent a month in this jour-
ney, at length I returned to my old habitation.

Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when I re-
turned to my little castle, and reposed myself in my
hammock. After my journey I rested myself a week,
which time I employed in making a cage for my
pretty poll. 1 now began to recollect the poor kid
I had left in the bower, and immediately went to
' fetch it home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food, and
tied it as before; but there was no occasmn, for it
followed me like a dog; and as I constantly fed it,
became so loving, gentle, and fond, that it com-
menced to be one of my domestics, and would never
leave me.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn, manner, as usual, it being the third year of
my abode in the island. I spent the whole day in
acknowledging God's mercies, in giving thanks-for
making this solitary life as agreeable, and less si'nful,
than'that of human society; and for the communica-
- tion of his grace to my soul, in supporting, comfort-
_ ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his Provi-
dence, and hope for his eternal presence in the world

to come. -
Indeed, I often did consider how much more hap-

py I was, in this state of life, than in that accursed
manner of living I formerly used; sometimes, how-
ever, when hunting, or viewing the country, the an-
guish of my soul would break out upon me, and my
very heart would sink within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and how
[was a prisoner locked up within the eternal have
and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wildzueu
without hopes, and without redemption. In this con-
dition, I would often wring my hands, and weep like
' a child: and even sometimes in the middle of my
work, this fit would often take me; and then I would
sit down and sigh, looking on the ground for an hour
or two together, till such time as my grief got vent
in a flood of tears.

One morning. as I was fully employed in this man-
ner I opened my Bible, when immediately I fixed my
eyes on these words. " I will never leave thee, nor
forsake thee l" Surely, if God does not forsake me,
what matters it, since he can make me. more happy
in this state of life, than if I enjoyed the greatest
splendour in the world? And whenever I opened or
shut the Bible, I blessed kind Providence, that direct-
ed my good friend in England to send it among my
goods without my order, and for assisting me to save
it from the power of the raging ocean.
And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were these: First, My duty to
Heaven, and diligently reading the Holy Scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every day; Secondly,
Seeking provisions with my gun, which commonly
took me up, when it did not rain, three hours every
morning; Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving,
and cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the day;
for in the middle of the day, the sun being in its
height, it was so hot, that I could not stir out; so
that I had but four hours in the evening to work in;
and then the want of tools, of assistance, and skill,
wasted a great deal of time to little purpose, I was
no less than two and forty days making a board, fit
for a long shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools
. and saw-pit, would have cut out of the same tree in
nait'a day. It was of a large tree, as my board was
to be broad. I was three days in cutting it down,
and two more in lopping off the boughs, and reducing
it to a piece of timber. Thus I hacked and hewed
off each side, till it became light to move; thenI
turned it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board from end to end, then turned it downward, cut-
ting the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.
Any body may judge my great labour and fatigue in
such a piece of work; but this I went through with
patience, as also many other things that my circum-
stances made necessary for me to do.

The harvest months, November and December,
were now at hand, in which I had the pleasing pros-
pect of a very good crop. But here I met with a
new misfortune, for the goats and hares, having tast-
ed ot' the sweetness of the blade, kept it so short that
it had no strength to shoot up into stalk. To preventacumen causes. 63

this, I enclosed it with a hedge, and by day shot
some of its devourers; and my dog, which I had
tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all night, so
frightened these creatures that I got entirely rid of
them.

But, no sooner did I get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared; to wit, whole flocks of several
sorts of birds, who only waited till my back was
turned to ruin me. So much did this provoke me,
that I let fly, and killed three of the malet'actors ; and
afterward served them as they do notorious thieves
in England, hung them up in chains as a terror to
others. And, indeed, so good an effect had this, that
they not only forsook the corn, but all that part of
the island, so long as these criminals hung there.

My corn having ripened space, the latter end of
' December, which was my second harvest, I reaped it
with a scythe, made of one of my broad swords. I
had no fatigue in cutting down my first crop it was
so slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub-
bing the grain out with my hands, instead of thresh-
ing it; and, when my harvest was over, found my
half peek of seed had produced nearly two bushels of
rice, and two bushels and a half of barley. And now
I plainly foresaw, that, by God's goodness, I should
be furnished with bread: but yet I was concerned,
because I knew not how to grind or make meal of my
corn, neither knew I how to bake it into bread. I
would not, however, taste any of the crop, but re
solved to preserve it against next season, and, in the
mean while, use my best endeavours to provide my-
self with other food.

But where were my labours to end? the want- of a
plough to turn up the earth, or shovel to dig it, I con-
quered by making me a wooden spade. The want

of a barrow I supplied, by dragging over the corn A
K. .64 ms mu ammonia or

great bough of a tree. When it was growing, I was
forced to fence it: when ripe, to mow it, carry it
' home, thresh it it, part it from the chafl", and save it.
And, after all, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it. This set my brains to work, to
find some expedient for every one of these necessa-
ries, against the next harvest. 3

And now having more seed, my first care was to pre-
pare me more land. I pitched upon two large flat pieces
of ground, near my castle, for that purpose, in which
I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good hedge.
This took me up three months: by which time. the
wet season coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors. I found several occasions to employ myself,
and, while at work, used to divert myself with talking
to my parrot, teaching him to know and speak his '
own name Poll, the first welcome word I ever heard
spoken in the island. I had been a long time contriv-
ing how to make earthen vessels, which I wanted ex-
tremely; and when Iconsidered the heatof the climate,
I did not doubt but if I could find any such clay, I might
botch up a pot, strong enough, when dried in the sun,
to bear handling, and to hold any thing that was dry,
as corn, meal, and other things.

To be short, the clay I found; but it would occa-i
sion the most serious person to smile, to see what
awkward ways I took, and what ugly misshapen things
I made; how many either fell out or cracked by the
violent heat of the sun, and fell in pieces when they
were removed, so that I think it was two months be-
fore I could perfect any thing; and even then
but two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker bas-
kets, made on purpose for them, and between the pot
and'the baskets, stuffed it full of rice and barley straw;
and these I presumed would hold my dried corn, and
perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised. As
for the smaller things, I made them with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins. the sun baking them very hard.

Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold my
liquid, but also to bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It once happened that as I was put ing
out my fire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
my vessels, burnt hard as a rock, and red red as a tile.
This made me think of burning some pots; and hav-
ing no notion ofa kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three pots in
a pile one upon another. The fire I piled round the
the outside, and dry wood on the top, till I saw the
pots in the inside red hot, and found that they did
not crack at all: and when I perceived them perfect
ly red, I let them stand in the fire about five or six
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of the
heat, and would have run to glass had I suffered it;
upon which, I slacked my fire by degrees. till the
redness abated; and watching them till the morning,
I found I had three very good pipkins, and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for. my turn as I
could desire. ,

The first use to which I turned my pipkins, was to
make some salt, which I had long wanted. For this
purpose, I filled them with sea-water, and kept it
slowly boiling over the fire, till the whole of the wa-
ter had boiled away in steam, leaving, at the bottom
of the vessel, a thin crust of salt, which I found very
good for giving a relish to my food.

The next concern I had, was to get me a stone-
mortar to beat some corn in, instead 'of a mill to grind
it. Here, indeed, I was at a great loss. as not being

0
fit for a stone-cutter; and many days I spent to find
out a great stone big enough to cut hollow and make
fit for a mortar, and strong enough to bear the weight
of a pestle, that would break the corn without filling
it with sand. But. all the stones of the island being of
a mouldering nature, rendered my search fruitless;
and then I resolved to look out a great block of hard
wood; which having found, I formed it by my axe
and hammer, and then, with infinite labour, made a
hollow in it, just as the Indians of Brazil make their
canoes. When I had finished this I made a great
pestle of iron-wood, and then laid them up against
my succeeding harvest. .

My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal and part it from the bran and husk. Having
no fine thin canvass to search the meal through, I
could not tell what to do. What linen I had was re-
duced to rags; I had goat's hair enough, but neither
tools to work it, nor did I know how to spin it. At
length, I remembered I had some neck-cloths of ca-
lico or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought out
of the ship, and with these, I made three small sieves
proper enough for the work.

I come now to consider the baking part. The want
of an oven I supplied, by making some earthen pans
very broad, but not deep. When I had a mind to
bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, the tiles of
which I had made myself, and when the wood was
burnt into live coals, I spread them over it, till it be-
came very hot; then sweeping them away, I set down
my loaves, and whelming down the earthen pots upon
them, drew the ashes and coals all around the outside
of the pots to continue the heat; and in this manner
I baked my barley loaves, as well as if I had been a
complete pastry cook, and also made of the rice. se-

veral cakes and puddings.
It ts no wonder that all these things took me up the
bes; part of a year, since what intermediate time I had,
was bestowed in managing my new harvest and bus--
bandry; for in the proper season I reaped my corn,
carried it home and laid it up in the ear, in my large
baskets, till I had time to rub, instead of thrashing it.
And now indeed, my corn increased so much, that it
produced me twenty bushels of barley, and as much
of rice, that I not only began to use it freely, but was
thinking how to enlarge my barns, and resolved to
sow as much at a time as would be suflicient for a
whole year

All this while, the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran'in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this place,
though the fear of greater misfortunes might have
deterred me from it. For allowing that I had attain-
ed that place, I ran the hazard of being killed and
eaten by the devouring cannibals ; and if theywere not

so, yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had been, -

who fell into their hands. Notwithstanding all this,
my thoughts ran continually upon that shore. I now
wished for the long boat with the shoulder of mutton
sail. I went to the ship's boat, that had been cast a
great way on the shore in the late storm. She was
removed but a little; and her bottom being turned
up by the impetuosity and surge of the waves and
wind, I fell to work with all the strength I had, and
with levers and rollers I had cut from the wood, to
turn her, and repair the damages she had sustained.
This work took me up three or four weeks, when
finding my little strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mining it by digging away the sand, and so to make
it {all down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it in the fall. But after this was done. I was
still unable t" stir it up, or to get under it, much less
to move it forward towards the water, and so I. was
forced to give it over.

This disappointment, however, did not frighten me.
I began to think, whether it was not possible for me
to make a canoe or Perigua, such as the' Indians make
of the trunk of a tree. But here I lay under particu-
lar inconveniences; want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it into the water when it was
made. However, to work I went upon it, stopping
all the inquiries I could make with this very simple
answer Imade to myself, let's first make it, ['11 war-
rant l'll find some way or other to get it along when
it is done.

I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, after which it lessened {or a space,
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I
hacking and hewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in
cutting off the branches and limbs, and a whole month
in shaping it like the bottom of a boat. As for the inside,
Iwas three weeks with a mallet and chisel, clearing
it in such a manner, as that it was big enough to carry
26 men, much bigger than any canoe I ever saw in
my life, and consequently sufficient to transport me,
and all my effects to that wished for shore I so ar-
dently desired.

Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest.
difficulty, to get it into the water, it lying about 100
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between the boat and the
creek, with wonderful pains and labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as
insufficient to move it, as it was when I first made the
attempt. I then proceeded to measure the distance

iRoar-.1502: causoe. 59

of ground, resolving to make a canal, in order to
bring the water to that! canoe, since I could not bring
the canoe to the water. But as this seemed to be
impracticable to my self alone under the space of
eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some sort
of consideration , so that I concluded this also to be
impossible, and the attempt vain. I now saw, and
not before, what stupidity it is to begin work before
we reckon its costs, or judge rightly our own abilities
to go through with its performance.

In the height of this work my fourth year expired
from the time I was cast on this island. At this time
I did not forget my anniversary; but kept it with ra-
ther greater devotion than before. For now my
hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world as a
thing I had nothing to do with; and very well might
I say, as father Abraham said unto Dives, " Between
me and thee. there is a gulf fixed." And indeed I
was separated {111m its wickedness too,hnving neither
the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride
of life , I had nothing to covet, being lord, king, and
emperor over the whole country I had in possession,
without dispute and without control. I had load-
ings of corn, plenty of turtles. timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. "'hat was all the test
to me? The money I had lay by me as despicable
dross, which I would freely have given for a grass of
tobacco pipes or a hand-mill to grind my corn. deg in a
word, the nature and experience of these things dic-
tated to me this just reflection. That the good things
of this world are no further good to us than as they
are for our use; and that whatever 11c may heap
up, we can but enjoy as much as we use and no
more.

These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I did eat with
thankfulness, admiring the providential hand of God.
who, in this wilderness had spread a table to me.
And now I considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted, compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; how I shoula
have done, if I had got nothing out of the ship; thal
I must have perished before I had caught fish or tur-
tles; or lived, had I found them, like a mere savage.
by eating them raw, and pulling them to pieces with
my claws, like a beast. I next compared my station
to that which I deserved; how undutiful I had been
to my parents; how destitute of the fear of God:
how void of every thing that was good; and how
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had received
from heaven, being fed, as it were by a miracle, even
as great as Elijah's being fed by ravens; and cast on.
a place where there are no venomous creatures to
poison or devour me ; in short, making God's tender
mercies matter of great consolation, I relinquished
all sadness, and gave way to contentment.

As long as my ink continued, which with water I
made last as long as I could, I used to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened.

' The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit, which I had brought out of the ship; and
though I allowed myself but one cake a day for about
a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of bread for
nearly a year, before I got any corn of my own.

In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before. However, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailor's che-
quered shirts which proved a great refreshment to
me, when the violent beams of the sun would not
suffer me to bear any of the seamen's heavy watch-
coats; which made me turn tailor, and. after a miser-
able batching manner, convert them to jackets. To
preserve my head, I made a cap of goatskins, with
the hair outwards to keep out the rain; which indeed
I served me so well, that afterward I made a waist-
ieoat and open-kneed breeches of the same: and then
I contrived a sort of umbrella, covering it with skins,
which not only kept out the heat of the sun, but the '
rain also. Thus being easy and settled in my mind,
my chief happiness was to converse with God, in
most heavenly and comfortable ejaculations.

For five years after this, I cannot say any extraordi-
nary thing occurred to me. My chief employment was
to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and rice, of

'both which I had a year's provision before-hand. But
though I was disappointed in my first canoe, I made
it, at intermediate times, my business to make a se-
cond of much inferior size: and it was two years be-
fore I had finished it. But as I perceived it would
in no wise answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to see what further discoveries I
could make. To this intent, after having moved her
to the water, and tried how she would sail, I fitted
up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's sails that lay by me. I then made lockers or
boxes at the end of it to put in necessaries, provision,
and ammunition, which would preserve them dry
either from the rain, or the spray of the sea; and, in
the inside of the boat, I cut me a long hollow place
to lay my gun, and to keep it dry, made a cover for
it. My umbrella, I fixed in a step in the stern, like
a mast, to keep the heat of the sun ofi' me._ And now
resolving to see the circumference of my little king-
dom, I victualled my ship for the voyage, puttingin
two dozen of my barley bread loaves, and an earthen

pot full of parched rice, a little bottle of rum. half:
6
goat, powder and shot, and two watch-coats. It was
the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or captivity, that I set out on this voyage; which
was much longer than I expected, being obliged to
put farther out, by reason of the rocks that lay a
great way in the sea.

And indeed so much did these rocks surprise me,
that I was for putting back, fearing that ifI ventured
farther, it would be out of my power to return: in
this uncertainty I came to anchor just off the shore,
to which I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and
then climbing up a hill, which overlooked that point.
I saw the full extent of it, and so resolved to run all
hazards.

In this prospect from the hill, I perceived a violent
current running to the east, coming very close to the
.point; ' 'hich I the more carefully observed, thinking
it dangerous, and that when I came to it, I might be
driven into the sea by its force, and not able to re-
turn to the island: and certainly it must have been
so, had I not made this observation ; for on the other
side was a like current, with this difl'erenee, that it
set off ata greater distance; and I perceived there
was a strong eddy under the land; so that my chief
business was to work out of the first current, and
conveniently get into the eddy. Two days I staid
here, the wind blowing very briskly cast south-east,
which being contrary to the current, leaves a great
breach of the sea upon the point; so it was neither
[it for me to keep too near the shore, on account of
the breach ; nor stand at too great a distance for fear
of the streams. That night the wind abating, itgrew
so calm, that I ventured out: and here 1 may be a
monument to all rash and ignorant pilots; for I was
no sooner come to the point, and not above the boat's
length from shore. but I was got into deep water
with a current like a mill-race, which drove my boat
along so violently, that it was impossible for me to
keep near the edge of it, for it forced me more and
" more out from the eddy to the left of me; 'and all I
7" could do with my paddles was useless, there being
.1 no wind to help me.

' ' Now I began to look upon myself as quite lost,
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island,
I was very certain they must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want, in the sea,
after what provision I had was spent, or before, if a
storm should happen to arise.

Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? with longing eye did I look
upon my little kingdom, and thought the island the
pleasantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desert, said I, shall I never see thee more?
Wretched creature! whither am I going? Why did I
murmur at my lonesome condition, when new I would
give the whole wide world to be thither againi. While
I was thus complaining, I found myself to be driven
about two leagues into the sea; however, I laboured
till my strength was far spent, to keep my boat as
far north as I possibly could, to that side of the cur-
rent where the eddy lay. About noon I perceived
a little breeze of wind, spring up from the south
south-east, which overjoyed my heart; and I was
still more elated, when in about half an hour, it blew
a gentle fine gale. Had any thick weather sprung
up, I had been lost another way: for having no com-
pass on board, I should never have found the way to
steer towards the island, if once it had disappeared:
but it proving the contrary, I set up my mast again,
spread my sail and stood away northward, as much

as I could, to get rid of the current. And no sooner
did the boat begin to stretch away, but I perceived
by the clearness of the water, a change of the cur-
rent was near; for, where it was strong, the water
was foul; and where it was clear the current abated.

Those who have been in the like calamities with
my own, may guess my present excess of joy, how
heartily I ran my boat in the stream of this eddy,
and how joyfully I spread my sail to the refreshing
wind, standing cheerfully before it, with a smart tide
under foot. By the assistance of this eddy, I was
carried above a league home again, when, being in
the wake of the island, betwixt the two currents, I
found the water to be in a sort of a stand. About
four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached within a
league of the island, and perceived the points of the
rock, which caused this disaster, stretching out, as I

F

observed before, to the southward, which throwing . '

off the current more southerly, had occasioned ano-
ther eddy to the north. But having a fair brisk gale,
I stretched across this eddy, and in an hour came
within a mile of the shore, where I soon landed to
my unspeakable comfort; and after an humble pros-
tration, thanking God for my deliverance, with a re-
solution to lay all thoughts of escaping aside, I
brought my boat safe to a little cove, and laid me
down to take a welcome repose. When I awoke, I
was considering how I might get my boat home:
and coasting along the shore I came to a good bay,
which ran up to a rivulct or brook, where, finding a
harbour, I stowed her as safe as if she had been in a
dry dock, made on purpose for her.

I now perceived myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot: so taking no-
thing with me, except my gun and umbrella, I began
my journey, and in the evening came to my bower,
where I again laid me down to rest. I had not slept
long, before I awakened in great surprise, by a strange
voice that called me several times, " Robin, Robin,
Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where are an,
Robinson Crusoe? Where are you! Where to
you been?

So fast was I asleep", that at first I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep, and half awake, I
thought I dreamed that sonic body spoke to me. But
as the voice repeated, "Robinson Crusoe," several
times, being terribly frightened, I started up in the
utmost confusion; and, no sooner were my eyes
. fully open, but I beheld, my pretty poll sitting on the
top of the hedge, and soon knew that it was he that
called me; for just in such bewailing language, I
used to talk and teach him; which he so exactly
learned, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his
bill close to my face, and cry, " poor Robinson Cru-
soe, where are you? where have you been? how
came you here 2" and such like prattle I had con-
stantly taught him. But even though I knew it to
be the parrot, it was a great time before I could ado
just myself: being amazed how the creature got
thither, and that he should fix about that place, and
no where else. But now, being assured it could be
no other than my honest "Poll," my wonder ceased,
and reaching out my hand, and calling "Poll," the
creature came to me familiarly, and perched upon
my thumb, as he was wont, constantly prating to
me with "poor Robinson Crusoe, and how did I
come here, and where had I been i'" as if the bird
was overjoyed to see me, and so I took him home
along with me. I was now pretty well cured of
rambling to sea; yet I could wish my boat, which
had cost me so much, trouble and pains, on this side
the island once morefbut this, indeed was impracti-
cable. ' I therefore began to lead a- very retired 13C,
living nearly a twelvemonth in a veryCan'tonhd

6* '
O
manner, wanting for nothing but conversation. As to 4
mechanic labours, which my necessities obli ed me 3'
to, I fancied I could, upon occasion, makes to arable i
carpenter, were the poor tools I had to work withal, ..
but good. Besides, as I improved in my earthen- '
ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel, which i
I found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly. But, I
think, I never was so much elevated with my own
performance or project as when able to make a to-
oacco-pipe, which, though it proved an awkward
clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and carried the
smoke perfectly well, to my great satisfaction.

I also improved my wicker ware, made me abun-
dance of necessary baskets, which, though not very
handsome, were very handy and convenient to fetch
things home in, as also for holding my stores, barley,
rice, and other provisions.

My powder beginning to fail. made me examine
after what manner I should kill the goats or birds, '
to live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensnare the goats, and see if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young. -

At last I had my desire; for, making pit-falls and
traps, baited with barley and rice, I found, one morn-
ing, in one of them, an old he goat, and in the other, '
three kids, one male, and two females.

So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the old proverb,
" That hunger will tame a lion :" for had I kept him
three or four days without provisions, and then given
him some water with a little corn, he would have
been as tame as a young kid. The other creatures
I bound with strings together; but I had great difii--
culty, before I could bring them to my habitation.
It was some time before they would feed ; but, throw.
ing them sweet corn, it so much tempted them, that
they begari to be tamer. From hence I concluded,
that if I designed to furnish myself with goat's flesh,
when my ammunition was spent, the tamely breed-
ing themiup, like a flock of sheep, about my settle-
ment, was the only method I could take. I concluded
also that I must separate the wild from the tame, or
else they would always run wild as they grew up;
and the best way for this was, to have some enclosed
piece of ground, well fenced, either with a hedge or
pale, to keep them so effectually, that those within
might not break out, nor those without break in.
Such an undertaking was very great for one pair of
hands; but as there was an absolute necessity for
doing it, my first care was to find a convenient piece
of ground, where there was likely to be herbage for
them to eat, water to drink, and cover to keep them
from the sun.

Here again, I gave another instance of my igno-
rance and inexperience, pitching upon a piece of
meadow land so large, that had I enclosed it, the
hedge or pale must have been at least two miles
about. This thought came into my head, after I had
carried it on, I believed, about fifty yards: I there-
fore altered my scheme, and resolved to enclose a
piece of ground about I50 yards in length, and 100
in breadth, large enough for as many as would main-
tain me, till such time as my flock increased, and
then I could add more ground. I now vigorously
prosecuted my work, and it took me about'three
months in hedging the first piece; in which timeI
tethered the three kids in the best part of it; feeding
them as near me as possible, to make them familiar;
and, indeed, [very often would carry some ears of
barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of
my hand: by which they grew so tame, that when
my enclosure was finished, and I had let them loose,
they would run after me for a handful of com. This
indeed answered my end: and in a year and a half's
time, I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all:
and in two years after, they amounted to forty-three,
besides what I had taken and killed for my sustenance.

After which, I enclosed five several pieces 0!
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them into,
that I might take them as I had occasion.

In this project I likewise found additional bless-
ings; for I not only had plenty of goat's flesh, but
milk too, which in the beginning, I did not so much
as think of. And, indeed, though I had never milked
a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese
made, yet, after some essays and miscarriages, I made
me both, and never afterwards wanted.

How mercifully can the Almighty comfort his
creatures, even in the midst of their greatest calami-
ties! How can he sweeten the bitterest evils, and
give us reason to magnify him in dungeons and pris-
ons; what a bounteous table was here spread in the
wilderness for me, where I expected nothing at first,

but to perish for hunger.
. Certainly any one would have smiled to see me at

dinner. There sat my royal majesty, an absolute
prince and ruler of my kingdom, attended by my du-
tiful subjects, whom, if I pleased. I could either hang,
draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it away.
When I dined, I seemed a king. eating alone, none
daring to presume to do so till I had done. Poll, as
if he had been my principal court favourite, was the
only person permitted to talk with me. My old, but
faithful dog, now grown exceedingly crazy, continua
ally sat on my right hand ; while my two cats sat on
each side of the table, expecting a bit from my hand,ROBINSON causes. 69

as a principal mark of my royal favour. These were
not the cats I had brought from the ship, they had
been dead long before, and interred near my. habita-
tion, by my own hand, but a couple of their'youug
I had made tame; the rest ran wild into the woods,
: and in time grew so impudent, as to return and plun-

der me of my stores, till such time as I shot a great
many, and the rest left me without troubling me any
more. In this plentiful manner did I live, wanting
for nothing but conversation. One thing indeed con-
cerned me, the want of my boat; I knew not which
way to get her round theisland. One time I resolved
to go along the shore by land to her; but had any
one at home met such a figure, it would either have
afi'righted him, or made him burst into laughter; nay,
I could not but smile myself at my habit, which I
think, in this place, will be very proper to describe.

The cap I wore upon my head, was great, high,
and shapeless, made of a goat's skin, with a flap, or
pent-house hanging down behind, not only to keep
the sun from me, but to shoot the rain off from run-
ning into my neck, nothing being more pernicious
than the rain falling upon the flesh, in these climates.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, whose hai'r hung
down such a length on each side, that it reached
down to the calves of my legs. As for shoes and
stockings. I had none, but made a resemblance of
something, I know not what to call them; they were
made like buskins, and laced on the sides like spatter-
dashes, barbarously shaped, like the rest of my habit.
I had a broad belt of goat's skin dried, girt round me
with a couple of thongs, instead of buckles; on each
of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and dag-
ger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another belt,
not so broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it, under
my left arm, hung two pouches, made of goat's skin,
to hold my powder and shot. My basket I carried
on by back, and my gun on my shoulder; and over
my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella,
which however, next to my gun, was the most neces-
sary thing about me. As for my face, [the colour
was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might
have been expected, from one who took so little care
of it, in a climate within nine or ten degrees of the
line. At one time my beard grew so long that it
hung down above a quarter of a yard; but as I had
both razors and scissors in store, I cut it all 06', and
suffered none to grow, except a large pair of Maho-
metan whiskers, the like of which I had seen worn
by some Turks at Salee, not long enough indeed to
hang a hat upon,but of such a monstrous size, as would
have amazed any in England to have seen.

But all this was of no consequence here, there be-
ing none to observe my behaviour or habit. And so,
without fear and without control, I proceeded on my
journey, the prosecution of which, took me up five or
six days. I travelled along the sea shore, directly
to the place where I first brought my boat to an an-
chor, to get upon the rocks ; but now having no boat
' to take care of, I went over land a nearer way to the
same height that I was before upon; when looking'
forward to the point of the rock which lay out, andi
which I was forced to double with my boat, I was,
amazed to see the sea so smooth and quiet, there,
being no rippling motion, nor current, any more
than in other places. And now I was convinced,
that by observing the ebb and flow of the tide, I
might easily bring my boat round the island again.
But when I began to think of putting it in practice,
the remembrance of the late danger struck me with
such horror, that I took another resolution, though ,
nosmsox cnusoz. 71

more laborious; and this was to make a second ca.
me, and so have one for one side of the island, and
one for the other.

I had now two plantations in the island; the first
my little fortification, fort, or castle, with many large
and spacious improvements, for by this time, I had
enlarged the cave behind me with. several little caves,
one within another, to hold' my baskets, corn, and
straw. The piles with which I made my wall, were
grown so lofty and great, as obscured my habitation
And near this commodious and pleasant settlement,
lay my well-cultivated and improved corn fields,
which kindly yielded me their fruits in their proper
season. My second plantation was that near my
country seat, or little bower, where my grapes flour.
ished,and where,having planted my stakes, I made en-
closures for my goats. so strongly fortified by labour
and time, that it was much stronger than a wall, and,
consequently, impossible for them to break through.
As for my bower itself, I kept it constantly in repair,
and cut the trees in such a manner, as made them
grow wild, and form a most delightful shade. In the cen-
tre of this, stood my tent, thus erected. I had driven
four piles in the ground, spreading over it a piece of
the ship's sail, beneath which, I made me asort of
couch, 'with the skins of the creatures I had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailor's blankets, which I had saved from the wreck
of the ship, and covering myself with a great watch~
coat, I took up this place for my country retreat.

Very frequently, from this settlement, did I use to
visit my boat, and keep herin very good order. And
sometimes would I venture in her a cast or two from
shore, but no farther. But now I entreat your at-
tention, whilst I proceed to inform you of a new,
but most surprising scene of life which here befel me.
You may easily suppose, that, after having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing, than
to see a human creature. One day it happened, that
going to my boat, I saw the print of a man's naked
foot on the shore, very evident on the sand, as the
toes, heels, and every part of it. Had I seen a
monster of the most frightful shape, I could not have
been more confounded. My willing ears gave the
strictest attention. I cast my eyes around, but could
satisfy neither the one nor the other, I proceeded
alternately to every part of the shore, but with equal
efi'ect; neither could I see any other mark, though
the sand about it was as susceptable to take impres-
sion as that which was so plainly stamped. Thus
struck with confusion and horror, I returned to my
habitation, frightened at every bush and tree, taking
every thing for men; and possessed with the wildest?-
idea! That night my eyes never closed. I formed
nothing but the most dismal imaginations. In a.
word, all my religious hopes vanished, as though
I thought God would not now protect me by his
power, {,who had wonderfully preserved me so long.

What various chains of events are there in the life
'of man! How changeable are our affections, accord-
ing to different circumstances! We love to-day,
what we hate to-morrow; we shun one hour, what
we seek the next. This was evident in me in the
most conspicuous manner; for I, who had so much
before lamented my condition, in being banished
from all human kind, was now ready to expire, when
I considered that a man had set his foot on this deso-
late island. But when I considered my station of
life, decreed by the infinitely wise and good provi-
dence of God, that I ought not to dispute my Crea-
tor's sovereignty, who had an undoubted right to
govern and dispose of his creatures as he thinks con-
venient; and that his justice and mercy could either
punish or deliver me, I say, when I considered all
this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust sincerely
in him, pray ardently to him, and humbly resign
myself to his divine will.
f One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings, came into my mind, " Call upon me
in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me." Upon this sentence, rising
more cheerfully from my bed, I ofl'ered up my pray-
ers in the most devout manner; and when I hhd
done, taking up my Bible to read, these words ap-
peared first in my sight, "Wait on the Lord, and be
of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart:
Wait, I say, on the Lord." Such divine comfort did
this give me, as to remove all cause of sadness 'upon
that occasion.
' Thus, after aworld of apprehensions and fears for
three days and nights, I at last ventured out of my
castle, and milked my goats, one of which was almost
spoiled for want of it. I next (though in great fear,)
visited my bower, and milked my flocks there also;
when growing bolder, I went down to the shore
again, and measuring the print of the foot'to mine, to
see perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in largeness;
and so returned home, absolutely convinced, that
either some men had been ashore, or that the island
must be inhabited ; and therefore that I might be snr
prised before I was aware.

I now began to think of providing for my security,
and resolved in my mind many difl'erent schemes for
that purpose. I first proposed to cut down my en-
closures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent the
island in hopes of killing the same. Secondly, I was

7
501' digging up my corn-fields for the very same rea-
son. And, lastly, I concluded to demolish my bower.
lest, seeing a place of human contrivance, they might
come farther, and find out and attack me in my
castle.

Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night,
yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
pose the next morning, and then joining reason with
'fear, I considered, that this delightful and pleasant
island might not be so entirely forsaken as I might
think; but that the inhabitants from the other shore
might sail, either with design or from necessity, by
cross winds; and, if the latter circumstance, Ihad
reason to believe they would depart the first oppor-
tunity. However, my fear made me think of a place
of retreat upon an attack. I now repented thatIhad
made my door to come out beyond my fortification;
to remedy which, I resolved to make me .a second
one: I fell to work, therefore. and drove betwixt that
double row of trees, which I planted above twelve
years before, several strong piles, thickening it with
pieces of timber and old cables, and strengthening the
foot of it with earth which I dug out of my cave; I
also made me seven holes, wherein I planted my mus-
kets like cannon, fitting them into frames resembling
carriages. This being finished with indefatigable
industry, for a great way every where, I planted
sticks of osiers like a wood, about twenty thousand
of them, leaving a large space between them and my
wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and
that they might not be sheltered among the young
trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall.
And indeed, scarce two years had passed over my
head, when there appeared a lovely shady grove,
and in six it became a thick w'ood perfectly impassa-
ble For my safety I left no avenue to go in or out;
instead of which, I set two ladders, one to a part of
the rock which was low, and then broke in, leaving
room to place another ladder upon that, so that when '
I took those down, it was impossible for any man to
descend without hurting himself; and if they had,
_ they would still be at the outside of my outer wall.

.But, while I took all these measures of human pru-
dence for my own preservation, I was not altogether
nnmindful of other affairs. To preserve my stock of
tame goats, that the enemy should not take all at
once, I looked out for the most retired part of the
island, which was the place where I had lost myselt
nefore mentioned, and there finding a clear piece of
land, containing three acres, surrounded with thick
woods, I wrought so hard, that in less than a month's
time, I fenced it so well round, that my flocks were
very well secured in it, and I put therein two he
goats, and ten she ones.

All this labour was occasioned purely by fearful
apprehensions, on account of seeing the print of a
man's feet. And not contented yet with what I had
done, I searched for another place towards the west
part of the island, where I might also retain another
flock. Then wandering on this errand more to the
west of the island than ever I had yet done, and
casting my eyes towards the sea, methonght I per-
ceived a boat at a great distance; but could not pos-
sibly tell what it was for want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see the
print of a man's foot; and concluding them canni-
bals, blessed God for being cast on the other side of
the island, where none of the savages, as I thought
ever came. But when I came down the hill to the
shore, which was the south-west point of the island,
I was soon confirmed in my opinion; nor can any
one describe my horror and amazement, when I saw
the ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and bones
of human bodies; and particularly, I perceived a
space like a circle, in the midst of which had been a
fire, about which I conjectured those wretches sat,
and unnaturally sacrificed and devoured their fellow
creatures.

The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadful
spectacle, both confounded my senses, and made me
discharge from my stomach in an excessive manner.
I then returned towards my habitation; and in my
way thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down
on my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my
nature contrary to those wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands. .

Though reason and my long residence here had
assured me, that the savages never came up to the

thick woody part of the country, and that I had no .

reason to be apprehensive of a discovery, yet such

an abhorrence did I still retain, that for two years-

after, I confined myself only to my three plantations;
I mean my castle, country seat, and enclosure in the
woods, though in process of time my dreadful appre-
hensions began to wear away.

Thus my circumstances for some time remained
very calm and undisturbed ; though indeed. the ter-
ror which the savages had put me in, spoiled some
inventions for my own conveniences. One of my
projects Was to brew me some beer : a very whimsi-
cal one indeed, when it is considered, thatI had nei-
ther casks sufiicient, nor could I make any. to preserve
it in; neither had I hops to make it keep, yeast to
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it boil.
Perhaps, indeed, after some years, I might bring this
to bear, as I had done other things. But now my

1

inventions were placed another way; and day and 1

night I could think of nothing but how I might do
stroy some of these cannibals, when proceeding to
their bloody entertainments; and so saving a victim -
from being sacrificed, that he might afterwards he-
came my servant. Many were my contrivances for
this purpose, and many more objections occurred,
after I had hatched them. I once contrived to dig a
hole under the place where they made their fire,,and
put therein five or six pounds of gunpowder, which
. would consequently blow up all those that were near
it; but then I was loth to spend so much upon them,
"lest it should not do that certain execution I desired,
and only afi'right and not kill them. Having laid this
design aside, I again proposed to myself to lie pri-
vately in ambush in some convenient place, with my
three guns double loaded, and let fly' at them in the
midst of their dreadful ceremony; and having killed
two or three of them at every shot, fall upon the rest
- suddenly with my three pistols, and let not one mo-
ther's ,son escape. This imagination pleased my fancy
so much that I used to dream of it in the night time.
To put my design in execution I was not long seek-
-ing for a place convenient for my purpose, where
unseen I might behold every action of the savages.
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which was
loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or five smaller
bullets about the size of pistol bullets; the fo'wling
piece was charged with nearly a handful of the largest
swan shot, and in every pistol about {our bullets.
And thus all things being prepared, no ,qooner did
the welcome light spread over the element, but I
would issue forth from my castle, and from a lofty
hill, three miles distant, try if I could see any inva-
ders approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But hav-
ing waited in vain two or three months, it grew very
tiresome to me. .

I now argued with myself. it was better {or me
never to attack, but to remain undiscovered as long
as I possibly could; that an opposite conduct would
certainly prove destructive; for as it was scarcely
to be supposed I could kill them all, I might be
either overpowered by the remainder, or that some
escaping might bring thousands to my certain de-
struction. And, indeed, religion took their part so
much as to convince me how contrary it was tomy
duty, to be guilty of shedding human blood, innocent!
blood, innocent as to me in particular, whatever they '-
are to one another; that I had nothing to do with it,
but leave it to the God of all power and dominion,
as I said before, to do therein what seemed conve-
nient to his heavenly wisdom. And, therefore, on
my knees I thanked the Almighty for delivering me
from bloody guiltiness, and begged his protection
that I might never fall into their hands.

Thus giving over an attempt which I had rashly
begun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion
afterward; I only removed my boat, which lay on
the other side of the island, and every thing that be-
longed to her, towards .the east, into a little cove,
that there might not be the least shadow of any boat
near, or habitation upon the island. My castle then
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, or my little
flock in the wood, which was quite put of danger .
for sure I was, that these savages never came here
with expectation to find any thing, and consequently
never wandered from the coast; however, as they
might have'several times been on shore, as well be-
fore as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what state I might have
been, had I suddenly met them, slenderly armed,'
with one gun only loaded with small shot; and how
great would have been my amazement, if, instead of-
seeing the print of one man's foot, I had preceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having once set their
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet, would
have left me no possibility of escaping? These
thoughts would sink my very soul, so that I would
{all into a deep melancholy, till such time as the con-

sideration of my gratitude to the divine Being moved
it from my heart. I then fell into a contemplation
of the secret springs of Providence; and how wou-
derfully we are delivered, when insensible of it; and
when in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt or
hesitation, what secret hint directs us, in the right
way when we intended to go out of it; nay perhaps '
contrary to our business, sense, or inclination.
Anxieties of mind, and the care of my preservation, '
put a period to all future inventions and contri-
vances, either for accommodation, or convenience, ,
I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a stick, fire a '
gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise should be
heard, or the smoke discover me. And on this ac- 2
count I used to burn my earthenware privately in a
cave, which I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so thatI
might bake and dress my bread and meat without

any danger.
At that time a curious accident happened to me,
which I shall now relate. .

While I was cutting down some wood for makin
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very thic
branch of underwood. Curious to look into it, I
attained its mouth, and perceived it suflicient for me
to stand upright in.

. But when I had entered, having crept upon my
hands and feet through this strait, I found the roof
higher up, I think about twenty feet. But surely ne-
Ver mortal saw such a glorious sight before! the
roof and walls of this cave reflected a hundred thou-
sand lights to me from my two candles, as though
they were indented with shining gold, precious stones,
or sparkling diamonds. And indeed it was the most I.
delightful cavity or grotto of its kind that could be
desired, though entirely dark. The floor was dry
and level, and had a kind of gravel upon it; no nau-
seous venomous creatures to be seen here, neither
any damp or wet about it. I could find no fault but
in the entrance, and I began to think, that even this
might be very necessary for my defence, and there-
fore resolved to make it my principal magazine. I
brought hither two fowling-pieces and three mus-
kets, leaving only five pieces at my castle, planted in
the nature of cannon. In a barrel of gunpowder,
which I took out of the sea, I brought away about
sixty pounds of good powder, which was not da-
maged; and this, with a great quantity of lead for
bullets. I removed from my castle to this retreat, now

fortified both by art and nature. '

I fancied myself now like one of the giants of old,
who were said to live in caves and holes among the
rocks, inaccessible to any but themselves, or, at
least, most dangerous to attempt. And now I defied
both the cunning and strength of the savages, either
to find me out or to hurt me.

I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and my thoughts much easier than formerly,
having contrived several pretty amusements, and di-
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speak
English, and pronounce his words very articulately
and plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he lived
no less than- twenty-six vears, My dog which wasaonmson enuson. 81

nineteen years old, sixteen of which he lived with
me, died some time ago, of mere old age. As for
my cats, they multiplied so fast, that l was forced to
kill or drive them into the woods, except two or
three which became my particular favourites. Be-
sides these, I continually kept two or three house-
holds kids about me, which I taught to feed our of
my hand, and two more parrots which could talk in-
difl'erently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so ex-
cellently as the first, by my not taking so much pains
with them. I had also several sea fowls which I had
wounded and cut their wings; and growing tame
they used to breed among the low trees about my
castle walls, all of which made my abode very agree-
able. .

But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
enjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them! It was now the month of De-
cember, and the particular time in my harvest, which
required my attendance in the fields; when going
out pretty early in the morning, before it was day-
light, there appeared to me from the sea-shore, a
flaming light, about two miles from me at the east
end of the island, where I had observed some savages
had been before, not on the other side, but to my
great afiiiction it was on my side of the island.

Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
the ladder after me, making all things look as wild
and natural as I possibly could. In the next place, I

ut myself in a posture of defence, loaded my mus-
'ets and pistols, and committing myself to God's
protection, I resolved to defend myself till my last
breath. Two hours after, impatient for intelligence,
I set my ladder up to the side of the hill, where there
was a flat place, and then pulling the ladder after me,
ascending to the top, where laying myself on my
belly, with my perspective glass I perceived no less
than nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire,
eating as I supposed, human flesh, with their two
canoes hauled on shore, waiting for the flood to car-
ry them ofl' again. The consternation I was in at
this sight, especially seeing them near me, was very
great; but when I perceived their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I became more
easy in my thoughts, being fully convinced, that I
might go abroad with security all the time of flood, if
they were not before landed. And, indeed, this
proved just as I imagined; for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made north-
west. When I saw them gone, I took two guns upon '
my shoulders, and placing a couple of pistols in my
belt, with my great sword hanging by my side, I I
went to the hill, where at first I made a discovery of
these cannibals, and then saw there had been three
canoes more of the savages on shore at that place,'
lwhich with the rest, were making over to the main
and.

But nothing could be more horrid to me, when
going to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies appeared
in my sight; and so fired was I with indignation, that
~ I was fully resolved to be revenged on the first that
came there, though [lost my life in the execution.
'It then appeared to me, that the visits which they
make to this island are not very frequent, it being
fifteen months before they came again : but still I was
very uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehensions
of their surprising me unawares; nor dared I ofl'er
to fire a gun on that side of the island where they

used to appear, lest. taking the alarm, they might1

return with many hundred canoes, and then God on
knows in what manner I should have made my en .
Thus was I a year or more before I saw any of these
devouring cannibals again.

But to wave this, the following accident, which de-
mands attention, for a while, eluded the force of my
thoughts in revenging myself on those heathens.

0n the 16th of May (according to my wooden
calendar.) the wind blew exceedingly hard, accom-
panied with abundance of thunder and lightning all
day, and succeeded by a very stormy night. The
seeming anger of the heavens made me have recourse
to my Bible. Whilst I was seriously pondering upon
it, I was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a gun,
which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean. Such
an unusual surprise made me start up in'a minute;
when, with my ladder, ascending the mountain as be-
fore, that very moment a flash of fire presaged the
report of another gun, which I presently heard, and
found it was from the part of the sea where the cur
rent drove me away, I could not but then think, that
this must be a ship in distress, and that these were
the melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occasion;
but my labours to assist them must have proved alto-
gether vain and fruitless. However, I brought toge-
ther all the dry wood that was at hand, and making a
pretty large pile, set it on fire on the hill. I was cer-
tain they plainly perceived it, by their firing another
gun as soon as it began to blaze, and after that seve- "
ral more from the same quarter. All night long I
kept up my fire; and when the air cleared up, I per-
ceived something a great way at sea, directly east, but
could not distinguish what it was, even with my glass,
the weather being so very foggy out at sea. How-

ever, keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and84 ms arm anvsuruans or

perceiving it did not stir, I presently concluded it
must be a ship at anchor, and so very hasty was I to
be satisfied, that, taking my gun, I went to the south-
west part of the island, to the same rocks where I had
been formerly driven away by the current: in which
time, the weather being perfectly cleared up, to my
great sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship cast

away upon those hidden rocks I had found when I
was out with my boat; and which, by making a kind
of an eddy, were the occasion of my preservation.

When I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, and could perceive no room to sup-
pose any of them saved, 1 cannot explain, by any
possible force of words, what longings my soul felt
on this occasion, often breaking out in this manner.
Oh! that- there had been but two or three, nay, even
one person saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another! and so
' much were my desires moved, that when I repeated
these words, " oh! that there had been but one I" my
hands would so clench together, and my fingers press
the palms of my hands so close, that, had any soft
thing been between them, they would have crushed
it, while my teeth would strike together, and set
against each other so strong, that it required some
time for me to part them.

Till the last year of my being on this island, I
never knew whether or not any had been saved out
of this ship. I had the afliiction, some time after, to
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at
the end of the island which was next the shipwreck;
there was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess what nation he
was of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight, and

a tobacco-pipe, the last of which I preferred much
more than I did the first. And now the calmness of
the sea tempted me to venture out in my boat to this
wreck, not only to get something necessary out of
the ship, but perhaps, some living creature might be
on board, whose life I might preserve. This had
such an influence upon my mind, that immediately I
went home, and prepared every thing necessary for
the voyage, carrying on board my boat, provisions
of all sorts, with a good quantity of rum, fresh water,
and a compass: so putting off, I paddled the canoe
along the shore, till I came to the northeast part of
the island, from whence I was to launch into the
ocean: but here the current ran so violently, and ap>>
peared so terrible, that my heart began to fail me;
foreseeing, that if I was driven into any of these cur-
rents, I might be carried not only out of the reach or
sight of the island, but even inevitably lost in the
boiling surges of the ocean.

So dppressed was I at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprize, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where, stepping out, I sat me down on a ris-
ing hill, very pensive andtthonghtful. I then per-
ceived that the tide was turned, and the flood come
on, which made it impracticable for me to go out for .
so many hours.

That night, I reposed myself in my canoe, covered
with my watch-coat instead of a blanket, the heavens
being my tester. I set out with the first of the tide
full north, till I felt the benefit of the current, which
carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not with such
impetuosity as before, as to take from me all govern.-
ment of my canoe: so that in two hours I came up
to the wreck, which appeared to me a most melan-
choly sight. It seemed to be a Spanish vessel by its
building, stuck fast between two rocksg'her stern

and quarters beaten to pieces by the sea; her main-
8
mast and foremast were brought off by the board;
that is, broken short off. As I approached nearer, I
perceived a dog on board, who, seeing me coming,
yelped andcried: and no sooner did [call him, but
the poor creature jumped into the sea, out of which
I took him up almost famished with hunger and
thirst: so that when I gave him a cake of bread, no
ravenous wolf could devour it more greedily; and he
drank to that degree of fresh water, that he would
have burst himself had I suffered him.

The first sight I met with in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cock-room, or forecastle, en-
closed in one another's arms : hence I very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men not being able to bear it, were
strangled by the constant rushing of the waves. There
were several casks of liquor. whether wine or brandy
I could not be positive, which lay in the lower hold,
as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing out of the
water, yet were too large for me to pretend to med-
dle with :' likewise I perceived several chests, which
I supposed belonged to the seamen, two of which I
got into my boat, without examining what was in
them. What became of the sailors I could not cer-
tainly tell; and all her riches signified nothing at that
time to any body. '

Searching farther, I found a cask, containing about
twenty gallons full of liquor, which with some labour
I got into my boat; in the cabin were several mus-
kets, which I let remain there; but took away with
me a great powder horn, with about four pounds of
powder in it. I took also a fire-shovel and tongs,
with two brass kettles, a copper pot to make choco-
late, and a grid-iron; all which were extremely ne-

cessary to me, especially the fire-shovel and tongs.
And so with this cargo, accompanied by my dog, I
came away, the tide serving for that purpose: and
the same evening, about an hour within night, I at-
tained the island, after the greatest toil and fatigue
imaginable.

That night I reposed my weary limbs in the boat,
resolving the next morning to harbour what I had
gotten, in my new-found under-ground grotto; and
not carry my cargo home to my ancient castle.
Having refreshed myself, and got all my effect on
shore, I next proceeded to examine the particulars;
and so tapping the cash, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at the Brazils,
nor indeed near so good. At the opening of the
chest, several things appeared very useful to me; for
instance, I found in one, a very fine case of bottles,
containing the finest and best sort of cordial waters;
each bottle held about three pints, curiously tipt with
silver. I found also two pots full of the choisest
sweetmeats, and two more which the water had ut-
terly spoiled. There were likewise several good
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about one
dozen and a half of 'white linen handkerchiefs, and
coloured neckcloths, the former of which were absOo
lutely necessary for wiping my face in a hot day; and
in the till, I found three bags of money, in one of
which, decently wrapt up in a piece of .paper, were
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars and
wedges of the same metal, which I believe might
weigh near a pound. In the other chest, I only found
some clothes of very little value, and about two
oounds of fine glazed powder, in three flasks, kept
as I believe, for charging their .fowling-pieces on any
occasion, so that on the whole, I made very little of
this voyage. The money was indeed as more dirt
to me, useless and unprofitable, all which I would
have freely parted with, for two or three pair (if
English shoes and stockings, things that for many
years I had not worn, except those which I had
lately taken off the feet of the unfortunate men I
found drowned in the wreck, yet not so good as
English shoes, either for ease or service. I found
no gold in the second chest; so concluded that what
I took from the first belonged to an officer. the latter
appearing to have a much inferior person for its
owner. However, as despicable as the mom'y seemed,
I likewise lugged it to my cave, laying it up securely,
as I did the rest of my cargo, and intending to seek
out, and return it to the family of the unfortunate
owner, if ever I should return to Europe; and after
I had done all this, I returned back to my boat. row.
ing or paddling her along till I came to my old har-
bour, where I carefully laid her up, and so made the
best of my way to my castle. When Iarrived there,
every thing seemed safe and quiet; so that now, my
only business was to repose myself after my wonted
manner, and take care of my domestic afl'airs. But
though I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful; yet still I was more vigi-
lant than usual, upon account of the savages, never
going much abroad; or if I did, it was to the east
part of the island, where l was well assured that the
savages never came, and where I might not be trou-
bled to carry such a heavy load of weapons for my
defence, as I was obliged to do if I went the other
way.

Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was filled with nothing but projects and de-
signs how I might escape from this island; and so
much were my wandering thoughts bent upon a ram-

.ling disposition, that had I had the same boat that
I went from Salee in, I should have ventured once
more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.

Having retired to my castle, after my late voyage
to the ship, my frigate laid up and secured, as usual,
and my condition the same as before, except being
richer, though I had as little occasion for riches as
the Indians of Peru had for gold, before the cruel
Spaniards came among them; one night in March,
being the rainy season, in the four and twentieth
year of my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well
in health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon un
easiness, either of body or mind; yet notwithstand
ing, I could not compose myself to sleep all the night
long. All this tedious while, it is impossible to ex-'
press what innumerable thoughts came into my head.
I traced quits over, the whole history of my life in
miniature, from my utmost remembrance of things till
I came to this island ; and then proceeded to examine
every action and passage that had occurred since I
had taken possession of my kingdom. In my reflec-
tions upon the latter, I was comparing the happy
posture of my affairs in the beginning of my reign,
to this life of anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had
discovered the print of a foot in the sand; that while
I continued without apprehension, I was incapable
of feeling the dread and terror I now suffered. How _
thankful rather ought I to have been for the know-
ledge of my danger, since the greatest happiness a

, man can he possessed of is to have sufficient time to
provide against it. How stupendous is the goodness
of Providence, which sets such narrow bounds to the

,sight and knowledge of human nature, that while
'men walk in the midst of so many dangers, they' are
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things
hi from their eyes, and knowing nothing of those

8' .
many dangers that surround them, till perhaps'they
are dissipated and vanished away.

About a year and a half after, one morning early,
I was very much surprised by seeing no less than
live canoes all on shore together, on my side of the
island, and the savages that belonged to them all
landed, and out of my sight. Upon which, much
dispirited and perplexed, I lay still in my castle;
which, however, I put in a proper posture for an at-
tack; and having formerly provided all that was
necessary, was soon ready to enter upon an engage-
ment, should they attempt it. Having waited for
some time, my impatient temper would let me bear
it no longer; I set my guns at the foot of my ladder.
and, as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at
two stages, standing, however, in such a manner, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that they
could not easily perceive me; and here, by the assis-
tance of my perspective glasses, I observed no less
:hirty in number around a fire, feasting upon what
.neat they had dressed : how they cooked it, or what
-t was, I could not then perfectly tell ; but they were
all dancing and capering about the flames, using

many frightful and barbarous gestures.
But while, with a curious eye, I was beholding

these wretches, my spirits sunk within me, when I
perceived them drag two- miserable creatures from
the boats, to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I
supposed they had done before. It was not long be-
fore one of them fell upon the ground, knocked down
as I suppose, with a c ub or wooden sword, for that
was their manner; while two or three others went
immediately to work. cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they had
done the former: while the last unhappy captive was

left by himself, till such time as they were ready for
him. The poor creature looked round him with a

x . ..'
sorrowful eye, trembling at the thoughts of death;
yet seeing himself a little at liberty, nature, that very
moment. as it were, inspired him with hopes of life . .
he started away from them, and ran, with incredible
swiftness, along the sands, directly to that part of
the coast where my ancient and venerable castle stood.

You may well imagine I was dreadfully afl'righted
upon this occasion,'when as I thought, they pursued
him in a whole body, all running towards my palace.
And now, indeed, I expected that he would certainly
fly to my grove for protection. However, my spirits
beginning to recover, I still kept upon my guard;
and I. now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that pursued him. I was in-
finitely pleased at the swiftness with which the poor
creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground upon them, that I plainly perceived, could he
thus hold it out for half an hour, there was not the
least doubt but he would save his life from the power
of his enemies.

Between them and my castle, there was a creek.
the very same which I sailed into with all my effects
from the wreck of the ship, on the steep bank of
which, I very much feared the poor victim would be
taken, if he could not swim for his escape; but soon
was I out of pain for him, when I perceived he made
nothing of it, though at full tide, but with an intrepid
courage, spurred on by the sense of danger, he
plunged into the flood, swimming over in about
thirty strokes, and then landing, ran with the same
incredible strength and swiftness as before. When
the three pursuers came to the creek, two of them,
who I perceiveu could not swim, happily for them-
selves, returned to their company, while the other,
with an equal courage, but much less swiftness. ot-
tained the other side, as though he was resolved never
to give over the pursuit. And now or never, I thought.
was the time for me to procure me a servant com~
panion, 0r assistant, and that I was decreed by Pro

vidence to be the instrument to save this poor crea

ture's life. I immediately descended my two ladders
with the greatest expedition; I took up my two guns,
.which, I said before, were at the bottom of them;
and getting up again with the same haste towards the
hill, I made nearer the sea. In a word, taking a
short cut down the hill, I interposed between the
pursuer and pursued, hallooing aloud to the latter,
who ventured to look back, was no doubt, as much
terrified at me as at the enemy from whom he fled.
I beckoned to him, with my hand, to return back,
and, in the mean time, advanced towards the pursuer.
I was very unwilling to fire, lest the rest should hear,
though, at that distance, I questioned whether they
could or no; and being out of sight of the smoke,
they could not easily have known what to make of it.
The savage stopped as if he had been amazed; when,
advancing towards him, I could perceive him take
hisabow from his back, and, after fixing an arrow to
-t, preparing to shoot at me, and, without dispute, he
might have lodged it in my breast; but in this abso-
lutely necessary case of self-preservation, I imme-
diately fired, and shot him dead, just as his hand was
going to draw the fatal string. All this while, the
savage, who had fled before, stood still, and had the
satisfaction to see his enemy killed, as he thought,
who designed to take away his life; so afi'righted
. was he with the fire and noise of my piece, that he
stood as it were like Lot's wife, fixed and immove-
able, without either sense or motion. This obliged
me to halloo to him again, making the .plainest signs
I could to him to draw nearer. I perceived he under-
stood these tokens, by his approaching to me a little
way, when, as if afraid I should kill him too, henosmsox 0110503. 93

stopped again. Several times did he advance, and
as often stop in this manner, till, coming more to
my view, I perceived him trembling, as if he was to
undergo the same fate. Upon which I looked upon
him with a smiling countenance, and still beckoning
to him; at length he came close to me, and kneeled
down, kissed the ground, laid his head upon it, and
taking me by the foot, set it upon his head; which,
as I understood afterwards, was a token of swearing
to be my slaves-for ever. I took him up, and making
much of him, encouraged him in the best manner I
could. The greatest astonishment that my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing the sav-
age at such a distance, without a bow and arrow;
and such was his longing desire to know it, that he
first pointed to the dead carcase, and then made signs
to me to grant him leave to go to it. Upon which I
bid him go. and, as well as I could, made him sensible
I granted his request. But when he came there, how
wonderfully was he struck with amazement! First.
he turned it on one side, then on another, wond ring
he could perceive no quantity of blood, he b ed-
ing inwardly: and after sulliciently admiring the
wound the bullet had made in the breast, he'
took up his bow and arrows and came back again;
upon which, I turned to go away, making signs to
him to follow, lest the rest, missing their companion, _

. might come in pursuit of him, and this I foundhb"

understood very well, by making me to understand
that his design was to bury it, that it might not be
seen; and which by signs again I made him sensible
I very much approved of. Immediately he fell to.
work, and never was grave-digger more dexterons in
the world than he was; for in an instant, 1151 might
say, he scraped a large hole in the sands with his
hands, sufficient to bury it in; there he dragged it.
and, without any ceremony, covered it over. I then
called him away, and instead of carrying him direct-
ly to my castle at first, I conveyed him to my cave
on the farther part of the island.

\Veary and faint, hungry and thirsty, undoubtedly
must this poor creature be, supported chiefly by the
vivacity of spirit, and uncommon transports of joy
that his deliverance occasioned. Here I gave him
bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and water to
drink, on which be fed very cheerfully, to his ex-
ceeding refreshment. I then made him a convenient
bed, with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon
it, (a bed which I used myself sometimes,) and then
pointing to it, made signs for him to lie down to
sleep, upon which the poor creature went to take a
welcome repose.

Indeed he was a very comely, handsome, young
fellow, extremely well made, with straight long limbs,
not too large, but tall and well-shaped, and, as near
as I could reckon, about twenty-six years of age.
His countenance had nothing in it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and especially
when he smiled, he had all the sweetness of a Euro- '
pean. His hair was not curled like wool, as many
of the blacks are, but long and black, with the most

beautiful, yet careless tresses spreading over his
shoulders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that of the Ame-
ricans; but rather of a light dun olive colour, that
ad something agreeable in it, though not very easy
to give a description of. His face was round and
plump, with a small nose, very different from the
flatness of the negroes', a pretty small mouth, thin '
lips, tine teeth, very well set, and white as the driven '
snow. In a word, such handsome features, and exact
symmetry in every part, made me consider, that I
had saved the life of an Indian prince, no less grace-
ful and accomplished than the great Oroonoke, whose
memorable behaviour and unhappy contingencies of
life, have charmed the world, both to admiration of
his person, and compassion for his sufferings.

He had not, I think, slept above an hour, when he
awoke again, and while I was milking my goats hard
by, out he runs from the cave towards me in my en-
closure, and laying himself down on the ground in
the lowest prostration, made all the antic gestures
imaginable, to express his thankfulness to me for
being his deliverer. He laid down his head again
upon the ground, close to my foot, and set my other
foot upon his head, as he had done before, making
all the signs of subjection, servitude, and submission
imaginable, to let me understand he would serve me
as long as his life endured. As I understood him in
many things, I made him sensible I was very well
pleased with him; and, in a little time, I began to
speak to him, and teach him how to talk to me again.

In the first place, I made him understand his name was
to be Friday, because it was upon that day I saved his
life; I then taught him to say Master, which I made
him sensible was to be my name; I likewise taught
him to say yes and no, and to know what they meant.
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, making him
view me while I drank it before him, and soaked my
bread in it; I gave him a cake of bread, and caused
him to soak it likewise, to which he readily consent-
ed, making signs of the greatest satisfaction imagina-
ble.

All that night'did I keep him there; but no sooner
did the morning light appear, thanI ordered him to
arise and come along with me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some clothes like mine. at

I
which he seemed very glad, being stark naked. with-
out the least covering whatever. As we passed by
the place where the man had been interred, my man
pointed directly to his grave, showing me the marks
that he had made to find it again, giving me to under-
stand, by signs, that we should dig him up and devour
him. At this I appeared extremely displeased, ex-
pressed my utmost abhorrence, as if I would vomit
at the apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greateat, reve-
rence and submission. After this, I conducted him to
the t0p of the hill, to view if the rest of the savages
were yet remaining the re; but when I looked through
my perspective glass, I could see no appearance of
them, nor of their canoes; so that it was very evi-
dent they never minded their deceased companion
whom we had slain; which if they had, they would
surely have searched for or left one boat behind for
him to follow, after he returned from his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, animating
me with courage, to see this scene of barbarity, I
took my man Friday with me to the place of their
bloody entertainment. But when I came there, I was
struck with the utmost horror at so dreadful a spec-
tacle, Whilst Friday was no way concerned about it,
being no doubt in his turn one of these devourers. r
Here lay several human bones, there several pieces ,
of mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorched, -
whilst streams of blood ran promiscuously as water
from a fountain. As I was musing on this dreadful
sight, Friday took all the pains he could by particular
signs, to make me understand that they had brought
over four prisoners to feast upon, three of whom they
had eaten up, and that he was the fourth, pointing to
himself: that there having been a bloody battle be-
tween them and his great king, in the just defence of
whom he was taken prisoner, with many others; all
of these were carried off to difi'erent places to be de-
voured by their conquerors; and that it was his for-
tune to be brought hither by these wretches for the
very same purpose.

After I was made sensible of these things,'I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and burnt them to.ashes; my man, however,
still retained the nature of a cannibal, having a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh: but such an
extreme abhorrence did I express at the least ap-
pearance of it, that he durst not but conceal it: for I
made him very "sensible, that if he attempted any
such thing, I would certainly shoot him.

This being done, I carried my man with me to my
castle. and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had taken out of the poor gunner's chest before
mentioned; and which, with a-little alteration, fitted
him very well: in the next place, I made him a jerkin
of goat skin. such as my skill was able to manage.
and indeed I thought myself then a tolerably good
tailor. I gave him also a cap, whichI made of a
hare's skin, very convenient and fashionable. Thus
being clothed tolerably well, my man was no less
proud of his habit than I was at seeing' him in it. In-
deed he went very awkwardly at first, but by use, at
length he took to them very well.

My next concern was, where I should lodge him;
and that I might do well by him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I erected a tent fonhim in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and the outside of the first; and as there
was an entrance or door into my cave, I made a for-
mal framed door-case, and a door- to open on the in.

side ; I barred it up in the night-time, taking in my
0

O
ladders too, so that, was my man to prove treache-
rous, there could be no way to come at me in-the in-
side of my innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs \raken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long,r poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up
to the side of the mountain, which was again laid
across with smaller sticks instead of laths, and thatch-
ed over to a great thickness with the rice straw,
which was as strong as reeds; and at the hole of
the place, left on purpose to go in or out by the lad-
der, I had placed a kind of a trap-door, which, ifit
had seen attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but have fallen down, and made a
grea'; noise; and as to my weapons, every night I
took them all to my bed-side.

Btzt there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never Master had a more sincere, faithful, and
lovirg servant than Friday proved to me. \Vithout
passzon, sullenness, or design, perfectly ohliging and
engaging, his affections were as much tied to me as
those ofa child to his parents; and I might venture
to say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving.
of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever, and, indeed.
the many testimonies he gave me of this, sufficiently
convinced me that I had no occasion to use all these
precautions.

I tad not seen above two or three days returned
to my castle, but my chief design was, how I shoulu
bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding; and
to tase from him that inhuman relish, he, by habit,
had Jeen accustomed to, I thought it my duty to let
him taste other flesh, which might the rather tempt
him to the same abhorrence I so often expressed
agamst their accursed way of living. Upon which,
one morning. I took him out with me, with an inten
don to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring it home,
. and dress it. As I was going, I perceived a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. Immediately I catched hold of my man Fri-
day, and bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece, and shot one of the kids. My poor
servant, who had at a distance perceived me kill his
adversary, and yet did not know by what means, or
how it was done, stood trembling and surprised, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I aimed at,
or behold I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to see if he was not wounded, thinking my resolu-
tion was to kill him; for coming to me, he fell on
his knees, earnestly pronouncing many things which
I did not understand the meaning of; which at length
I perceived was, that I would not take away his life.
Indeed, so much compassion had I for this creature,
that it was with difliculty I refrained from tears. But,
however, as another sort of countenance was neces-
sary, and to convince him that I would do him no
harm,,I took him, smiling, by the hand, then laughed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had slain,
made signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how the
creature was killed, than he was before in beholding
the Indian; which. while he was admiring, I charged
my gun again, and presently perceived a great fowl .
like a hawk, perching upon a tree within shot; and,
therefore, to let Friday understand what I was going
to do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him under-
stand that I would shoot and kill that bird; accord-
ingly I fired, and beds him look, when immediately
he saw the parrot fall down. Again he stood like
one amazed, notwithstanding all I had said to him:
and the more confounded he was, because he did not
perceive me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so much as touch it. forzse-
eral days after; but would come and communicate
his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if the senseless
piece had understood and answered him; all this I
could perceive him to do, when he thought my back
was turned, the chiefintent of which was, to (lest:- it
not to kill him, as I afterward came to understand.

I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder
him from these comical gestures he used on such oc-
casions; but when his astonishment was a little over,
I made tokens to him to run and fetch the parrot the;
I had shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird not
being quite dead, had fluttered some way farther from
'he place where she fell. In the mean time, as he
was looking for her, I took the advantage of charg-
<<rg my gun again, that so I might be ready for any
other mark that offered ; but nothing more occurred

' the time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took 03' the skin, and divided the car-
case as well as I could. Part of the flesh I stewed
and boiled in a pet I had for that purpose. And then,
spreading my table, I sat down, giving my man some
of it to cat, who was wonderfully pleased, and seem-
ed to like it very well : but what was the most sur-
prising to him was to see me eat salt with it: upon
which he made me understand, that the salt was very
bad for me; when putting a little into his month, he
seemed to nauseate it in such a manner, as to spit
and sputter at it, and then washed his mouth with
fresh water: but to show him how contrary his epic
nion was to mine, I put some meat into my mouth
withaut salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as much
for want of it, as he had done at it; yet all this prov-
ed of no signification to Friday, and it was a long
while before he could endure any salt in his meat or
broth, and' even then but a small quantity.

Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was resolved
to feast him with a roasted piece of the kid. And hav-
ing no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use
of that common artifice which many of the people of
England have, that is, to set two poles upon each side of
the fire, and one across on the top, hanging the meat
thereon with a string, and so turning it round continu-
ally, till it was sufiiciently roasted. This practice caused
great admiration in my man Friday, being quite ano~
ther way than that to which the savages were accus-
tomed. But when he came to taste the sweetness
and tenderness of the flesh, he expressed his entire'
satisfaction above a thousand different ways. As I
could not but understand his meaning, you may be
sure I was as wonderfully pleased, especially when
he made it also very plain to me, that he would never,
while he lived, eat man's flesh more.

It was now high time I should set my new servant
to work; so next day, I put him to beat out some
corn, and sift it in the sn-n.' manner as I had done
before. And really the fellow was very quick and
handy in the execution of any huh-0r ' ordered him
to go about. I made him understauu that it was to
' make bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him see
. me bake it. In short, he did every thing as I order-

ed him in a little time, as well as I could perform it '
- myself.
i But now, considering that I had two months to
'feed instead of one, it was necessary that I should
.provide more ground for my harvest, .and plant a
larger quantity of corn than I, commonly used to do .
"son which, I marked out a larger piece of land. fans-

(is3.

102 urn arm anvxrtruass or

ing it in the same manner as I had done before; in
. the execution of which, I must give Friday this good
word, that no man could work more hardy, or with
better will than he did; and when I made him sensi-
ble that it was for bread to serve him as well as me,
he then very passionately made me understand, that
he thought I had much more labour on his account
than I had for myself; and that no pains or diligence
should be wanting in him, if I would but direct him
in those works wherein he might proceed.

I must certainly own, that this was the most plea-
sant yearI ever had in the island; for after some
time. Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stood the names of those things which I was wont to
call for, and the places where I used to send him.
So that my long silent tongue, which had been so
many years unused, except when praying to God, or
conversing with my poll, now began to be occupied
in teaching, and talking to my man Friday; for in.
deed I had such a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself, so innocent did his simple and unfeigned ho-
nesty appear more and more every day, that I really
began entirely to love him; and, for his part, I be-
lieve there was no love lost, and that his nature had
been more charmed by my exceeding kindness, and
his affection more placed upon me, than any other
object whatsoever among his own countrymen.

I once had a great desire to try if he had any:
hankering inclination to his own country again: and"
by this time having taught him English so well, that
he could give me tolerable answers to any question
' which I demanded, I asked him whether that nation
to which he'belonged ever conquered in battle? This
question 'made Friday smile, and to which he answer-
ed, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better ;" as much
as to say, they always get the better in fight. You

'Q
say, said I, that you always fight the better; why
' then, Friday, how came you to be taken prisoner!
l Friday. at for all that, my nation beat much.
Master. How, say you, beat! if your nation beat
3 then, how came you to be taken?
I Friday. The more many mans than my nation, in
'the place where me was, they take one, two, three
l and me; my nation much overheat them in the you-
der place where me no was, there my nation mans
beat one, two, three great thousands.

Master. Then why did not your men recover you
from the hands of your enemies!

Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me; they
make all go into the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.

- Master. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what does

your nation do with the prisoners they take ; Do they
carfry them away and eat them as they have done I

ll iday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too, eat up

a .

Master. To what place do they carry them to be
devoured '!

Friday. Go to other nations where they think.
Master. Do they bring them hither?
lFriday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
p ace. .

Master. And have you been with them here, Pride 3
Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the nort
]was; of the island, being the side where they used to

an .

Thus having gotten what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as
any of the rest of the cannibals, having been formerly
among the savages who used to come on share on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same bloody oe-
easions as he was brought hither for: and send time
after. I carried him to that place where he pointed;
and no sooner did he come there, but he presently
knew the ground, signifying to me that he was once
there when they ate up twenty men, two women and
a young child; but as he could not explain the mini.
bar in English, he did it by so many stones in a row,
making a sign to me to count them. .

My next question was, how far it was from the is-
land to the shore, and whether canoes were not often
lost in the ocean? to which he answered, there was
no danger; that no canoes were ever lost; but that
after a little way out to the sea, there was a strong
current, and a wind always one way, in the afternoon.

This I thought at first to be no more than the sets of '

tide, of going out or coming in; but I afterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or
gulf of which, I imagined my kingdom lay; and that
the land which I perceived to the west and north-west,
must be the great island Trinidad, on the north of the
river.

\Vell, you may be sure, this knowledge, which the '

imperfect information of my man had led me to, was
very comfortable to me, and made me so curious as
to ask him, how I might depart from this island, and
get amongst those white men? He told me, " Yes.
yes, I might go in two canoes." In two canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean. And, indeed, it
was a long time before I understood his meaning,
which was, that it must be a large boat, as big as two
canoes, able to bear with the waves, and not so liable
to be overwhelmed as one must be.

I believe there is no state of life but what may be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part
to make it so. He is not the happiest man that has
the most riches, but he that is content with what he
hath. Before I had my servant, I thought myself mis-
erable till I had him; and now that I had enjoyed the
happy benefits ofhim, I still complained, and begged
adelit'eraucc from a place of retirement, ease, and
olenty, where Providence had sufliciently blessed me
in a word, from this time, I entertained some hopes,
that one time or other,l might find an opportunity to
make my escape front this island, and that this poor
savage might be a great furtherance thereto.
1 now began to instruct my servant, in the saving
knowledge of the true Deity, in which the directions
of God's holy Spirit assisted me.
Friday, said I, you must know, that before this
world was made, there was an Almighty Being exist-
ing, by whose power all things were made, and whose
majesty shall have no end. To be glorified and odor-
ed by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels
tend archangels, that is, glorified spirits resembling
"himself to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise, in the most heavenly sounds and di
'vine harmony.

I found it easy enough to imprint the right notions
in his mind of God; for nature assisted me in all my
arguments, to show him plainly the necessity of a
great and overruling, governing power, of a secret

. irecting providence, and of the equity and reason:-
' bleness of paying adoration to our Creator.

I then entered upon a long discourse with him,
upon the subject of the world's redemption by the
Saviour of it, and the doctrine of repentance preached _

' fi'om heaven, together with an holy faith in our bless-
ed Redeemer Jesus Christ. '

By the constant application I made of the Scrip-
tures, as I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly
endeavoured to make him understand every part of
them as much as lay in my power. He also, on the
other hand, by his very serious questions and inqui.
ries, made me a much better proficient in Scripture
knowledge, than I should have been by my own Pri.
vate reading and study. "

You may well suppose, that, by the frequent dis. '

course we had together, my man and I became mos:
intimately acquainted, and that there was very little
that I could say, but what Friday understood; and in-
deed, he spoke very fluently, though it was but bro-
ken English. I now took a particular pleasure in
relating all my adventures, especially those that oc-
curred since my being cast on this 'island. I made
him understand thatwonderful mystery, as he conceiv-
ed, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to
shoot. I also presented to him a knife, which pleased
him exceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear hang-
ers in England ; and instead of a hanger to put in the
frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as
good, but even a better weapon upon many occa-
sibns. In a word my man thus accoutred, looked
upon himself as great as Don Quixote. when that
celebrated champion went to combat the windmill.

I next gave him a very particular description oi
my misfqttiunc in being shipwrecked; showmg him,
as near I could, the place where the ship lay,
which has men gone long before; but I brought
him to the reins of my boat, which, before, my whole
strength coa'wi not move, but now was almost rotten
and fallen to atlases. I observed my man Friday to
View this boat rth an uncommon curiosit r; which
when he had dan- ., he stood pondering a great whiie,
and said nothing. git last, said I, Friday, what makes
you ponder so muah? He replied, " 0 master, me
see like boat comm 1Q place at my nation." '

It was some tin .leed, before I understood what

I
my man meant; but examining strictly into it, I
plainly found, that such another boat, resembling
mine, had come upon the country where he dwelt:
that is to say, by his farther explanation, thatthe -
boat was driven thereJhrough stress of weather
Indeed Friday answered my demands Very well,
making every thing plain to my understanding; but
beyond measure was I satisfied when he told me,
with great warmth and ardour, " 0 master, we save
' white mans from drown ;" upon which I immediately
' asked him, if there were any white mans, as he
called them, in the boat; "Yes, yes," said he, "the
boat full, very full of white mans," How many,
Friday, said I. Hereupon he numbered his fingers,
and counted seventeen. And when I asked him what
became of them all, and whether they lived or not?
he replied, Yes, master, they all live, they be litre
among my nation." This information put' fresh
thoughts into my head, that these must be the very
men who before I concluded had been swallowed up
in the ocean, after they had left their ship that had
"struck upon the rocks of my kingdom, and after es-
caping the fury of the deep, landed upon the wild
shore, and committed themselves to the fury'of the '
devouring Indians. - '7
, The manner of their cruelties to one another
, which consequently, as I thought, must be acted with
greater barbarity to strangers, created in me a great
anxiety, and made me still more curious to ask Fri3
day concerning them. He told me, he was sure their
still lived there, having resided among. them abot'e '
four years, and that the savages gave them victuals
to live upon. But pray, Friday, said I, whence pro-
ceeded all this good nature and generosity? How
came it to pass that they did not kill and eat them,
to please their devouring". appetites: and, occasion

V
so splendid an entertainment among them? "No,
no." said Friday, " they not kill 'em, they make
brother with 'em ;" by which I understood there was
a truce between them. And then I had a more fa-
vourable opinion of the Indians, upon Friday's utter-
ing the words: "My nation t'other nation no eat
mans but when mans make war fight:" as though he
had said, that neither those of his kingdom, nor any
other nations that he knew of, ever ate their fellow-
ereatures, but such as their law of arms allowed to
be devoured: that is, those miserable captives, whose
misfortune it should be to be made prisoners of war.

Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man andI stood
upon the top of a hill, on the island, whence I had.
once before beheld the continent of America. I could
not tell immediately what was the matter: for sud-
denly Friday, fell a jumping and dancing as if he had '
been mad; and upon my demanding the reason of
his behaviour, "0 joy," said he, " O glad ! there see
my country, my nation, there white mans gether."
And indeed such a rapturous sense of pleasure, ap-
peared in his countenance, that his eyes had an un-
common sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be in his
own country again. This made me not so well satiSo
tied with my man Friday as before; for by this ap--
pearance, I made no dispute, but that if he could get
back thither again, he would not only be unmindful
of what religion I had taught him, but likewise of
the great obligation he owed me {or his wonderful
deliverance; nay, that he would not only inform his
countrymen ofme, but accompany hundreds of them
to my kingdom. and make me a miserable sacrifice.
like those unhappy wretches taken in battle.
Indeed I was very much to blame to have these
cruel, and unjust suspicions, and must freely own I
wronged the poor creature very much, who was of
a quite contrary temper. And had he had that dis-
cerning acutencss which many Europeans have, he
would certainly have perceived my coldness and in-

difference, and also have been very much concerned
upon that account.

As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could
not perceive the continen't, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, among your old friends and acquaintances?
" Yes," said he, "me much 0 glad to he at my own
nation." And what would you do there, Friday?
Would you turn wild again, eat man's flesh, and hen
savage as you were formerly? " No, no," (answered
he, full of concern, and shaking his head,) " Friday
now tell them to live good, tell them pray God, tell
them to eat corn, bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no cat
man again." But surely, replied I, if you should
offer to do all this, they will kill you; and to mani-
fest their contempt of such instruction, eat you up
when they have done. He then put on a grave, yet
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, " No, they
no kill me, they willing love learn:" that is, that
they would he very willing to learn; adding withal,
"that they had learned very much of the bearded
mans that came in the boat." Will you, said 1,39
back again, Friday? He smiled at that, and told me,
that he could not swim so far. But, said I, I will [nuke
a came for you: " Yes master," said he, "me go
if you go, me no go it' you stay." Igo, Friday!
why would you have them eat me. up, and devour
your .kind master? deg' No, no." said he, " me make
them no eat master, and me make them much love
you ;" that is, he would tell them how I had slain his
enemies, and thereby saved his life, for which reason
he would make them love me: and then he related
to me, as well as he was able, how exceedingly kind
those of his nation were to the white, or bearded
men, as he called them, who in their great calamity,
were driven into their country.

It was from this time, indeed, Ihad strong inclina-
tions to venture over, and use my utmost 'efl'urts, if
possible, to join with these white bearded men, who
undoubtedly were Spaniards or Portuguese ;' for
thought I, it must he certainly a better and safer
Way, to escape when there is a good company, than
for me alone, from an island forty miies oil' the shore,
and without any assistance. Some days after, Fri-
day and I being at work, as usual, at the same time
diverting ourselves with various discourses, I told
him I had a boat which I would bestow upon him,
whenever he pleased to return to his own nation:
and to convince him of the truth of what I said, I
took him with me to the other side of the island,
where my frigate lay, and then taking it from under
water, (for I always kept it sunk, for fear ofa dis-
covery,) we both went into it to see how it would
m'anage such an expedition.

And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my faithful servant, making the boat go
as fast again as Icould. Well, now, Friday, said I,
shall we now go to your much desired nation? But.
instead of meeting with that cheerfulness I expected,
he looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he made
me sensible, that his concern was about the boat be-
ing too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which, I
let him understand I had a much bigger: and accord-
ingly, the next day went to the place, where the first
boat lay, which I had made, when all the strength I
had, or art I could use, failed me in my attempt; to
get it into the water : but now it having lain in the
sun two and twenty years, and no care being taken
of it all that while, it became in a manner rotten. My
man told me, that such a boat would do very well
for the purpose, sufficient to carry "enough vittle,
drin , bread," for that was his manner of talking.
In's ort, my mind being strongly fixed, upon my
design of oing over with him to the continent, I
very plai y told him, that we would both go and
make a boat full as big, and more propprtionable
than that, wherein he might safely return to his own
nation.

Go your way, since you desire it, and leave me
alone by myself, as I was before I saved your life.

Never was any creature more thunderstruck than
Friday was at these words, "Go me away, leave
master away." said he, after a long silence, "No,
no, Friday die, Friday live not master gone ;" as
though he had said, I neither can nor will live, if my
master sends me from him. Friday felt towards me,
the greatest gratitude, and the most sincere love'; he
found me' not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter; not a severe and cruel tyrant, but a
kind, loving, and afl'able friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or out
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
but his soul; and therefore no wonder 'was'it, that
such an innocent creature, long since divested of
his former natural cruelty,should have an unconh.
mon concern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him desire
even to die, rather than live without me. '

After I had told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he should be at his liberty as soon as the boat
was made, the language of his eyes expressed all ima-
ginable confusion; when 1mmed1ately running to one
of his hatchets, which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so full,
that he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I, what 13
it you mean? What mustI do \11th this? " Onl) kill
Friday." said he, " I'11day care not live long. " But
what must I kill you fo1. 7 1eplied I again. " Ah, dear
mastc1, what made you Friday save (10111 cat a 11111
up, so keep long' Friday, make Friday love God, and
now Friday send away, never see Friday more." And
while he spoke thus, the tears ran down his cheeks in
such a plentiful manne1, that I had much ado to re-
frain from weeping also when I beheld the poor crea-
ture' s afl'ection: so that I was forc'ed to comfort him
in the best manner I could, which I did, by telling
him, 1f he was content to abide with me, I should be
ever willing to keep him.

After Friday' s grief was somewhat abated, more
fully to convince me of his afl'ection. he said, "0
master, me not care to be in my nation, leave you
here, me desire nation learn good, that's all :" mean-
ing, that his desire was for the conversion of that
barbarous people: and that he wished me to go with
him. And indeed, I began to desire to go alS1-1, from
my late discourse with Fridav, about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon the
barbarian coast, whom I designed to join, as the only
means to further our escape. To which intent, 111v
man and I went to search for a proper tree to fell,
whereof we might make a perigua or canoe, to under-
'take the voyage, and, indeed, we were not long in
finding one fit for our purpose, there being enough
of wood in the island to have built a fleet of large
vessels, but the thing we principally wanted, was, to
get one so near the water, that we might launch it
' after it was finished, and not commit so horrid a mis-
take as I had done once before.

Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday, at last, whose judgment in
such afi'airs was much superior to mine, pitches upon
a kind of wood the most fitting for it. But though my
man exceeded me in the knowledge of the most pro-
per tree, yet I showed him a much better and cleaner .
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before; {or
he was for burning the hollow or cavity of the tree,
in order to make this boat; but I then told him how
we might do with tools, teaching him at the same time
how to use them, which indeed he did very dexter-
ousl-y; so that in'a month's time we finished it, mak-
ing it very handsome, by cutting the outside in the
true shape of a bo'atalAfter this, it took us a full fort~
. night before-we'could . get her into the water, which
we did, as it Were, inch by inch, upon great rollers:
but when she was in,'.she' Would have carried twenty
men, withall the ease imaginable.

As I was very well pleased, you may be sure, at
the launching of this man of war of mine, I was no
less amazed to behold with what dexterity my man
could manage her, turn her, and paddle her along.
Well, Friday, said I, what do 'you think of it. now?
Do you think this will carry, us over? " Yes, master,"
said 'he, " we venture over well, though great blow
wind." But my design was yet farther, which he was
insensible of; and that to make a mast and a sail, and
provide her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast
that was no difficult thing at all to procure: so fixing
upon a straight young cedar tree, which I found near
the place, (great plenty of it aboundin'g in the island,)
and setting Friday to cut it down, I gave him par-
ticular'directions how to shape and order it; but as
to the sail, that, Imanaged myself. I very well know
I had some old ones, or pieces of sails enough, which
had lain six and twenty years by me; but not being
careful to preserve them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use them any more, when I came to
look over them, I found them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal of pains and awkward tedious stitching
for want of needles, at length I finished a three-cor-
nered ugly thing like that we call in England, a
shoulder-of-mutton-sail, to go with a boom at the
bottom, and a small sprit at the top, like those which
our long-boats use, and which I very well knew how
to manage, especially since it was like that which I
had in my patron's fishing-boat, when with my boy
Xury, I made my escape {rem the barbarian shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, Ettore I com-
pleted this work, that is, the rigging, and fitting up
my mast and sails; and indeed they were nicely done,
having made a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it,
to assist, if we should turn to the windward; and,
which was still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of
her, to steer with; and though I was buta very in-
difl'erent shipowright, yet, as I was sensible of the
great usefulness and absolute necessity of a thing like
this, I applied myself to it with such a constantap-
plication, that at last I accomplished my design; but
what with the many dull contrivances I had about it,'
and the failure of many things, it cost me as much
pains in ordering as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to teach what
belonged to its navigation ; for though he very well
understood how to paddle a canoe alone, he was an
utter stranger to a sail and a rudder, and was amazed
when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea, by them, and how the sail jibed and filled this
way or that way, as the course we sailed changed
After some time, and a little use,I made all these
things very familiar to him, so that he became an ex-
pert sailor, except in relation to the compass, and
that I could make him understand but little of. _But
as it happened, there was seldom occasion for it,
there being but little cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always visible
in the night, and the shore by day, except in the rai-
ny season, which confined every one to his habita-
tion. Thus entered into the seven and twentieth year
of my reign or captivity, which you please, (the last
three of which, blessed with the company of my man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned,) I kept the anni-
versary of my landing here with the same thankful-
ness to God for his tender mercies, "as I did before ;
and certainly as I had great cause for thankful ac-
knowledgment for my deliverance at first, I had much
greater now for such singular and additional testimo-
nies of the care of Providence over me, in all my dis-
tresses of both body and mind. and the great hopes
I had of being effectually and speedily delivered ; for
I had a strong impression upon my mind, that I
should not be another yearin this island. But, how-
ever, I still continued on with my husbandry, dig-
ging, planting, and fencing as usual: gathering and
curing my grapes, and doing all other things that
were necessary.
_ And now the rainy season beginning to come on,
obliged me to keep the longer within doors; but be-
fore this, I brought my new vessel into the creek,
whereI had landed my rafts, from the ship; so we
waited for the months of November and December,
in which I designed to venture over the ocean.

No sooner did the seasonable weather begin to
draw near, but so much was I elevated with this new
designed adventure, that I dailv prepared for the
voyage. The first thing that I thought on was, to lay
by a certain quantity of provisions, as a sufficient
store for such an expedition, intending in a week or
a fortnig ht's time to open the dock, and launch out
the boat for that purpose. But one morning, as I
was very busy upon something necessary for this 00>>
casion, I called Friday to me, and hid him to go to
the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tor
toise, a thing which we commonly had once a week,
as much upon account of the eggs, as for the sake oi
the flesh. He had not been long gone, but he came
running back, as though he was pursued for life, and
as it were flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the ground, or steps he set his feet on :
before I had time to inquire the reason of his precipi-
tation, he cries out, " O dear master, 0 sorrow! sor-
row! Bad! 0 bad. '" Why, what's the matter, Fri.
day? said I. "O yonder, yonder," said he, "there
be one, two, three canoes! two, three. l"

Surely (thought 1,) there must be six, by my man' s
way of reckoning; but on a stricter inquiry, I found
there were but three. IVell, Friday, said I, don't be
terrified. I warrant you we will defend ourselves
against them .--But though I comforted him in the
best manner I could, the poor creature trembled so,
that l scarcely knew what to do with him: " 0, mas
ter, " said he, " they come look Friday, cut pieces
Friday, cut a me up."

Why, Friday, said I, they will eat me up as well
as you, and my danger is as great as your'.s But
since it is so, we must resolve, to fight for our lives.
What say you? Can you. fight, Friday? " Yes," said
he very faintly, "me shoot, me kill what I can, but
there come great many number. " That's no matter,
said I again, our guns uill terrify those that we donot kill ; I am very willing to stand by you to the last
drop of my blood. _

Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me, and
obey my orders in whatsoever I command '! Friday
then answered, " 0 master, me lose life for you, me
die when you bid die." Thus concluding all ques
tions concerning his fidelity, I ordered him to take
the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried, and
load them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol
bullets; then I took four muskets and loaded them'
with two slugs, and five small bullets each ; charging
my two pistols each with a brace, I hung my great'
sword, as customary, naked to my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet, as a most excellent weapon for
defence.

Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could
discover; and I perceived very soon, by my glass,-
that there were one and twentysavages, three pri-
soners, and three canoes, and their chief concern
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon three poor
human bodies, a thing which by this time I had ob-
served was very common with them. Upon whichI
called to Friday; and showing him a great tree, that

l was just at the corner of the wood, near which they
were, I ordered him to repair thither, and bring me
word, if he could plainly perceive their actions;
accordingly he did as I commanded him, and came
back with this melancholy story, that they 'were

u all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their

l prisoners ; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little distance from them, whom they designed
for their next sacrifice ; and this he told me, was not
one of their nation, but one of those very bearded
men, who was driven by a storm into their country,
and whom he had so often spoken to me about. You

aosmson causes. 117
I
may be sure, that, upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me; when ascending up into a
tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white man, who
lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands tied
with flags or things resembling rushes, beingcovered
with clothes, and seeming to be an European. From
the tree where I took this prospect, I perceived
another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to them than where l was, which by taking a
small circle round, I might come at undiscovered,
and then I should be within half a shot of these de-
vourers. I therefore got behind some bushes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree; and
then I ascended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full -view
of these creatures', and could perceive all their ac-
tions.

Such a sight did then appear, as obliged me not to
lose a moment's time. No less than nineteen of these
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, close huddled
. together, expressing all the delight imaginable at so
barbarous an entertainment ; and they had just sent
the other two to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
and bring him limb by limb to their fire; for they
were then just going to untie the bands from his feet.
Hereupon, immediately turning to my man, New"
Friday, said I, mind what I say, fail in nothing, but ,
do exactly as you see me do. All which he promis-
ing to perform, I set down one of my muskets, and,
the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the same by his; and with the other musket I took
my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like;
are you ready, said I; " Yes, master," said he, why
then fire at them said I ; and at that very moment I
gave fire likewise.

I only killed one and wounded two; but my mannosmson (33080]. 119

Friday, taking his aim much better than I, killed two,
and wounded three'. You may be sure they were
in a dreadful consternation, at such an unexpected
disaster; and those who had yet escaped our pene-
trating shot, immediately jumped upon their feet,
but were in such a confusion, that they knew not
which way to run or look; not'knowiug from whence
their destruction came. We threw down our pieces, _
and took up others, givina a second dreadful volley;
but as they wefe only loaded with swan-shot, or
small pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them
fall, though many were wounded, who ran yelling and
screaming about like mad creatures. Now, Friday,
said I, lay down your piece, and take up the musket,
and follow me. He did so with great courage, when
showing ourselves to the savages, we gave a great
shout, and made directly to the poor victim, who
would have been sacrificed, had not our first fire
obliged the butchers, with three others, to jump into
a canoe. By my order, Friday fired at them, at
which shot I thought he had 'killed them all, by rea-
son of their falling to the bottom of the boat; how-
ever he killed two, and mortally wounded a third;
In the mean time I cut the flags that tied the'hando
and feet of the poor creature, and lifting bim'np,
asked him in' the Portuguese tongue, what he was?
he answered me in Latin, "Christianus:" but so
very weak and faint, that he could scarcely stand or
speak. And I next asked him, what countryman he
was? He said "Espaniola," and then uttered all
the thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Signior, (said I, with as much Spanish as Lwas mas-
ter of,) let us talk afterwards, but light now; here,
take this sword and pistol, and do what you can.
And indeed he did so with such courage and intre-
pidity, that he cut two of them to pieces in an instant.
I ordered Friday to run for the guns we had left at
the tree, which he brought to me with great swift-
ness, and then I gave him my musket, while I loaded
the rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter
between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who
made at him with one their wooden swords; and
though the former was as brave as could be ex-
pected, having twice wounded his enemy in the
head; yet being weak and faint, the Indian had
thrown him upon the ground, and ivas wresting my
sword out of his hand, which the Spaniard very
wisely quitting, drew out his pistol, and shot him
through the body before I could come near him,
though 1 was running to his assistance. As to Fri--
day, he pursued the flying wretches with his hatchet,
despatching three, but the rest were two nimble for
him. The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-pieces,
Wounded two, who running into the wpod, Friday
pursued and killed; but the other, notwithstanding
his wouhds, plunged himself into the sea, and swam
to those who were left in the canoe, which with one
wounded, .were all that escaped out of one and
twenty.

The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursuo
ing them: and, indeed, I was no less anxious about
their escape, lest after the news had been carried to
their people, they should return in multitudes, and
destroy us. So being resolved to pursue them, i
jumped into one of their canoes, and bid Friday fol-
low me; but no sooner was I in, than, to my sur-
prise, I found another poor creature, bound hand and
foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard had been,
with very little life in him. Immediately l unbound
him, and would have helped him up; but he could
neither stand nor speak, but groaned so piteously,
as thinking he was unbound in order to be slain.
Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him, and tell him of
his deliverance; when pulling out my bottle, I made
the poor wretch drink a little, which, with the joyful
news he had received, so revived his heart, that he
sat up in the boat. As soon as Friday, began to hear
him speak, and look more fully in his face, it would
have moved any one to tears to perceive his uncom-
mon transports of joy; for he kissed, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his face and head, then sung and jumped about again,"
like a distracted creature: so that it was a great
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell
me what was the matter with him; but when he came
to the liberty of his speech, at last he told me it was
his father.

Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see that
dutiful and tender affection this poor savage had to
his aged parent. He would sit down by him in the
boat, open his breast, and hold his father's head close
to his bosom, half an hour together, to cherish him:
then he took his arms and ankles, which were stiff
and numbed with binding, and chafed and rubbed.
them with his hands; by which means, perceivin
what the case Was, I gave him some rum, whic
proved of great benefit'to him.

While we were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight; and happy it was we
did not pursue them: for there arose from the north-
west. such a- violent storm, which continued all night
'ong, that I could not suppose otherwise, but that
they were all drowned. After this, I called Friday
to me, and asked him, if he had given his father any
bread! He shook his head, and said, " None, not
one hit, me eat a up all;" so I gave him a cake of
bread out of a little pouch I carried for this end. I
likewise gave him two or three bunches of raisins
for his father.

Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was be-
witchcd, with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight as it were in an instant; but, at
his return, I perceived him slacken his pace, because
he had something in his hand. And this I found to
be, as he approached nearer, an earthen jug with some
water for his father, with two more cakes of bread.
which he delivered into my hands. Being very thirs-
ty myself, I drank some of the water, of which when
his father had drank sufficiently, it more revived his
spirits than all the rum I had given him.

I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to
carry one of the cakes, and some water to the Spa-
niard, who was reposing himself upon a green place
under the shade of a tree, but so weak, that though
he exerted himself, he could not stand upon his feet.
Upon which, I ordered Friday to rub and baths his
ank'ies with rum, as he did his father's. But every
minute he was employed in this, he would cast his
eyes towards the boat, where he left his father sit-
ting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew like light-
ning to him, and finding he only laid himself down
to ease his limbs, he returned back to me presently,
and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him, and lead him to the boat in order to be conveyed
to my dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back, and so
carried him to the canoe, setting him close by his fa-
ther; and presently stepping out again, launched the
boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster than I
could walk, though the wind blew very hard too;
and having brought them safe to the creek, away he

runs to fetch the other canoe, which he brought to
the creek almo'st as soon as I got to it by land; then
wafting me over, he took our new guests out of the
boat; but so weak were they, that I was forced to
make a kind of a hand-barrow; and when I came to
my castle, not being willing to make an entrance in-
to my wall, we made them a handsome tent, covered
with old sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie 'upon and
cover them. Thus, like an absolute king, over sub-
iects who owed their lives to me, I thought myself
very considerable.

To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat; which
when he had done, I cut off the binder quarters, and
chopping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and 'rice into the broth. This I car-
ried into their tent, set a table, dined with them, and
encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who spoke _
the language of the savages pretty well. .After din-
her. I ordered Friday to fetch home all our arms
from the field of battle, and the next day to bury the
dead bodies, which he did accordingly. And now I
made Friday inquire of his father. whether he thought
,those savages had escaped the late storm in their
canoe, and if so, whether they would not return with
a force too great for us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible that they could outlive the
storm: or if they were driven southwardly, they
would come to a land where they would as certainly
be devoured, as if they were drowned in the sea.
And suppose they had attained their own conn ,
.-the strangeness of their fatal and bloody attack wo
make them tell their people that the rest of them
were killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand

of man, but by two heavenly spirits (meaning Friday
and me.) who were sent from above to destroy them.
And this, he said, he knew, because he heard them
say the same to one another. And indeed he was in
the right on't; for I have heard since, that these four
men ave out, that whoever went to that enchanted
islantf would be destroyed by fire from the gods.

No canoes appearing some time after, as I expect-
ed, my apprehensions ceased; instead of which my
former thoughts of a voyage took place, especially
when Friday's father assured me I should have good
usage in his nation. As to the Spaniard, he told me
that sixteen more of his countrymen, and Portuguese,
who had been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the savages,
yet they were very miserable for want of provisions
and other necessaries. When I asked him about the
particulars of his voyage, he answered, that their
ship was bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havana;
that when the ship was lost only five men perished
in the ocean; the rest having saved themselves in
the boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there! said I. He
replied, they had concerted measures to escape by
building a vessel, but that they had neither 'tools nor
provisions, so that all their designs came to nothing.
Supposing (said 1,) I should make a proposal, and in-
vite them here, would they not carry me prisoner to
New Spain? He answered no; for he knew them to
be such honest men, as would scorn to act with such
inhuman baseness to their deliverer: that if I pleased,
he and the old savage would go over to them, talk
with them about it, and bring me an answer: that
they should all swear fidelity to me as their leader,
upon the holy sacrament; and, for his part, he would
not only do the same, but stand by me to the last
drop of his blood, should there be occasion.
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose; but when every thing was ready, the Spaniard
raised an objection, which carried a great deal of .
weight in it: " You know, Sir, said he, that having
been some time with you, I cannot but be sensible
that your stock of rice and corn may be sufficient,
perhaps, for us at present, but not for them, should
they come over presently, much less to victual a ves-
sel for an intended voyage. And therefore, my ad-
vice is, to wait another harvest, and in the mean
time, cultivate and improve some more land, where-
by we may have plenty of provisions, in order'to
execute our design."

This advice of the Spaniard I approved of extreme-
ly; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that I es-
teemed him ever after. And thus we all (car went
to work upon some more land, and against seed-time,
we had gotten so much cured and trimmed up, as
was sufficient to sow twenty-two bushels of barle
on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was in short al
the se'ed we had to spare. As we were four in num-
ber, and by this time all in good health, we feared
not an hundred of Indians, should they venture to
attack us; and while the corn was growing, I pitched
upon some trees, fit to build us a large vessel, in
case the Spaniards came over; which being marked,
I ordered Friday and his father to cut them down,
appointing the Spaniard, who was now my privy
counsellor, to oversee and direct the work. I like.
wise increased my flocks of goats, by shooting the
wild dams, and bringing home their kids to my en-
closure; nor did I neglect the grape season, but
cured them as usual, though I had such a quantity
now, as would have filled eighty barrels with raisins

And thus all of us being employed, they in work-

SS
ing, and I in providing for them, till harvest came,
God Almighty blessed the increase of it so much,
that from twenty-two bushels of barley, we threshed 1
out two hundred and twenty, and the like quantity
of rice, sufficient to victual a ship fit to carry me and

all the Spaniards to any part of America.
Thus the principal objection being answered, by a

sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my two ambas
sadors over to the main land, with a regal authority.
to administer the oaths of allegiance and fidelity, '.
and have an instrument signed under their hands,
though I neVer asked whether they had pen, ink, or
paper; when giving each of them a musket with
eight charges of powder and ball; and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a fair
gale, on a day when the moon was at full.

Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my head, but '
impatient for their return, I laid me down to sleep one
morning, when a strange accident happened, which was
ushered in by my man's coming running to me, and
calling aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are ,
come." Upon which, not dreaming of any danger, '
out I jumped from my bed, put on my clothes, and 3
hurried through my little grove; when looking to- -
wards the sea, I perceived a boat, about a lea ue and -
a half distant, standing in for the shore, wit a fair
wind. I beheld they did not come from the side
where the land lay on, but from the southmost end
of the island. So these being none of the people we
wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as
I came down from the mountain, which, with my
ladder, I now ascended, in order to discover more
fully what they were: and now, with the he] of my
perspective glass, I plainly 'perceived an nglish
ship, which I concluded it to be, by the fashion of its
long boat; and which filled me with such uncommon
transports ofjoy, that I cannot tell how to describe;
and yet some secret doubts hung about me, proceed-
ing from I know not what cause, as though I had
reason to be on my guard.

Not long it was, before I perceived the boat to ap-
proach the shore, as though they looked for a place
where they might conveniently land; and at last they
ran their boat on the shore upon the beach, about
half a mile distant; which proved so much the hap-
pier for me, since, had they come into the creek,
they had landed just at my door, and might not only
have forced me out of my castle, but plundered me of
all I had in the world. Now I was fully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of whom were un-
armed and bound; when immediately, the first four
or five leaped on shore, and took those three out of
the boat as prisoners, one of whom I could perceive
used the most passionate gestures of entreaty, afflic-
tion, and despair, while the others in a less degree
showed abundance of concern.

Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned to
Friday, who was below, to ascend the mountain, and
likewise view'this sight. " 0 master," said he to me,
" you see English mans eat prisoners as well as sa-
vage mans." And do you think they will eat them,
Friday? said I. " Yes," said Friday, " they eat a ah
up." No, no, said I, Friday, I am much more con-

cerned lest they murder them; but as for eating them
' up, that I am sure they will never do. '

And now I not only lamented my misfortune in not
. having the Spaniard and. Savage with me, but also
that I could not come within shot of them unperceiv-
ed, (they having no fire-arms among them,) and save
these three men, whom I thought they were going to
kill with their swords. But some comfort it was to
me, that I perceived they were set at liberty to go
where they pleased, the rascally seamen scattering
about as though they had a mind to see the place;
and so long did the negligently ramble, that the tide
had ebbed so low, as to leave the boat aground. Nor
were the two men that were in her more circumspect:
for having drunk a little too much liquor, they fell
fast asleep; but one of them waking before the other,
and perceiving the boat too fast aground for his
strength to move it, he hallooed out to the rest, who
made all possible expedition to come to him; but as
Providence ordered it, all their force was ineffectual
to launch her, when I could hear them speak to one
another. " Why let her alone, Jack, can't ye, she'll
float next tide :" by which words I was fully convinc-
ed they were my own countrymen. I this while lay
very quiet, as being fully sensible it could be no less
than ten hours before the heat would be afloat, and
.hen it would be so dark, that they could not easily
perceive me, by which means I should- be at more
liberty to hear their talk, and observe all their mo-
tions; not but thatI prepared for my defence: yet as
I had another sort of enemy to combat with, I acted
with more caution. I took two {usees on my shoulder,
and gave Friday three muskets; besides my formida-
ble goat-skin, and monstrous cap, made me look as
fierce and terrible as Hercules of old, especially when
two pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
sword was hanging by my side.

The three poor distressed creatures, too anxious to
get any repose, were, however, seated under the
shade of a great tree, about a quarter of a mile from
me.

Upon which, without any more ado, I approached
towards them, with my man following behind me,
and, before I was perceived, I called aloud to them
in Spanish, what are ye gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great confusion,
when they beheld the strange figure I made; they
returned no answer, but seemed as if they would fly
from me: Gentlemen, (said I, in English,) don't be
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you
expect. " He must be from heaven," said one of
them, gravely pulling off his hat, "for we are past
all help in this world." All help is from heaven,
said I, but air, as I have perceived every action be-
tween you and these brutes since your landing, only
inform me how to assist you, and I will do it to the
utmost of my power.

"Am I talking with God or man 1'" said he, in melt-
ing tears. "Are you of human kind, or an angel 2"
Sir, said I, my poor habit will tell you I am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you, hav-
ing 'but this servant only, here are arms and am-
munition; tell freely your condition, can we save
you? "The story," said he, "is too long to relate, since
our butchers are so near: but, Sir, I was master of
that ship, my men have mutinied, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me, on
shore without murdering us, though we expect no-
thing put perishing here. Are your enemies gone?
said I. No, replied be (pointing to a thicket,) there
they lie. while my heart trembles, lest, having seen
and heard us, they should murder us all. Have
they firearms? said I, They have but two pieces,
said he, one of which is left in the boat. He also
told me, there were'two enormous villains amongst
them, that were the authors of this mutiny, who if
they were killed or seized, the rest might be induced
to return to their obedience.

When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire I gave him and his two companions each of
has a gun, with powder and ball sufficient, and fir-\

199 LIFE AND ADVENTURES or

ing myself, killed one of the Captain's enemies, and
wounded the other, who eargerly called for assist-
ance; but the Captain, (who had reserved his piece.)
coming up to him, " Sirrah," said he, " tis too late
to call for assistance, you should rather cry to God
to pardon your villainy :" and so knocked him down
with the stock of his gun: three'others were also.
slightly wounded, who, at my approach, cried' out
for mercy. This the Captain granted, upon con-
dition that they would swear to be true to him in
recovering the ship, which they solemnly did: how-
ever, I obliged the Captain to keep them bound.
After which I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to
secure the boat, and bring away the oars and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed Captain,
now their conqueror, submitted to be bound also.
And then it was, that having more liberty, 1 related
the adventures of my whole life, which he heard
with a serious attention. After this, I carried him
and his two companions into my little fortified castle,
showed them all my conveniences, and, when this
was over, we began to consider about regaining the
ship; he said that there were twenty-six hands on
board, who knowing their lives were forfeited by the
law, for conspiracy and mutiny, were so very hard-
ened, that it would be dangerous for our small com-
pany to attach them. This was a reasonable infer-
ence, indeed; but something we must resolve on.
and 'immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so high, that she .
could not shoot off at high water mark, and broke a
hole in her not easy to be stopped; so that all the
signals they gave for the boat to come on board were
111 vain. This obliged them to send another boat
ashore, with ten men armed, whose faces the Captain
plainlv loser'ied, the boatswain being the chief of-
ficer; but he said there were three honest lads
among them, who were forced into the conspiracy.
Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage, (for I had per-
ceived he was in concern,) in the mean time while
. securing our prisoners, except two, whom we took

to our assistance, we thought ourselves able enough
to endure a battle. When the sailors landed, and
'beheld their boat in that condition, they not only
hallooed, but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their companions
were murdered, they made as if they would return
to the ship. I could perceive the Captain's counte-
nance change at this, till, of a sudden, three men were
ordered to look after the boat, while the other seven
.eapt on sh ore, in order to Search for their companions:
and, indeed, they came to the brow of the hill, near
my ancient castle, from whence they could see to a
great disbmce in the woods, and there shouting and
hallooing till tired and weary, they at length seated
themselves under a spreading tree. My opinion
. was, that nothing could be done till night, when I
might use some artifice to get them all out of the boat:
but of a sudden they started up, and made towards
the sea-side; hereupon I ordered Friday and the
Captain's mate to go over the creek, and halloo as
loud as they could, and so dec'oying them into the
woods, come round to me again. And this, indeed,
had good efl'ecti' for they followed the noise, till
coming westward to the creek, they called for their
boat to carry them over, and taking one of the men
out of her left two to look after her, having fastened
her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. Here-
upon immediately the Captain and our party passing
the creek, out of their sight, we surprised them both.
by the Captain's knocking down one and orderyn'
the other to surrender upon pain of death, and who,
being the honestest of them all, sincerely joined with
us. By this time it was pretty late; when the rest
returning to their boat, which they found aground
in the creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they
ran about wringing their hands, crying it was an en-
chanted island, and that they should all be murder-
ed by spirits or devils. My men would willingly
have fallen upon them, but I would not agree to haz-
ard any of our party.' But to be more certain, Friday
and the Captain crawled upon their hands and feet,
as near as possible; and when the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, so eager was the Captain, that he
tired and killed him on the spot: Friday wounded the
next man, and a third ran away. Hereupon I ad-
vanced with my whole army; and it being dark, I
ordered the man we had surprised in the boat, to
call them by their names, and to parley with them.
Accordingly he called out aloud, " Tom Smith, Tom
Smith l" He answered, " Who's that 2" " Robin-
son!" answered the other. "For God's sake, Tom,
surrender immediately, or you're all dead men."
" Who must we surrender to 1" says Smith. " To
our Captain and a large force here, who have taken
me prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and killed the
boatswain." "Shall we have quarter then i" said he.
Hereupon the Captain calls out, "You, Smith, you
know my voice, surrender immediately, and you
shall have your lives granted, except Will Atkins."
Hereupon Atkins cries out, "What have J done,.
Captain, more than the rest, who have been as bad
as me 2" but that was a lie, for he was the person
that laid hold of him, and bound him. However, he
was ordered to submit to the governor's mercy, for
such was I called. And so laying down their arms,
In bound them all, and seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with them,
telling them that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but he thought they
would be sent to England. Hereupon they implored
the Captain to intercede for their lives, and begged
they might not be sent to England. This answered
our project for seizing the ship. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the cave, I sent the Captain to
treat with them in the governor's name, offering
them pardon if they would assist in recovering the
ship. Upon which, they all promised to stand by
him till the last drop of their blood; and whoever
acted treacherously should be hanged in chains upon
the beach. They were all released on these assur-
ances: and then the Captain repaired to the other
boat, making his passenger Captain of her, and gave
him four men well armed ; while himself, his mate,
and five more, went in the other boat. By midnight
they came within call of the ship, when the Captain
ordered Robinson to hail her, and tell them that
with great difliculty they had found the men at last.
But while they were discoursing, the Captain, his
mate, and the rest entered. and knocked down the
second mate, and carpenter, secured those that were
upon'the deck, by putting them under. hatches, while
the other boat's crew entered and secured the fore-
castle; they then broke into the round-house, wnero
the mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate Gap-
tain through the head, upon which all the rest yielded
themselves prisoners. And thus the ship being re-
covered, the joyful signal was fired, which I heard
with the greatest joy imaginable: nor was it long
before he brought the ship to an anchor at the creek's
muth, where coming to me unawares. " There,"
sayshe, " my dearest friend and deliverer, there is
your ship, and we are your servants :" a comfort so
unspeakable, as made me swoon in his arms, while,
with gratitude to heaven, we were tenderly embracing !
each other.

Nothing new remained, but to consult what we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was not safe to take on board. Hereupon, concert-
ing with the Captain, I dressed m self in one of his
suits, and sending for them, told t em, that as I was
going to leave the island with all my people, if they
would tarry there, their lives should be spared ; if
not, they should be hanged at the first port they
came to. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I told
them my whole story, charging them to be kind to
the Spaniards that were expected, gave them all my
arms, and informing them of every thing necessary
for their subsistence, I, and my man Friday, went on
board. But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Captain to
take them on board, though be hanged them after-
wards, complaining mightily how barbarously the
others used them. Upon which I prevailed with the
Captain to take them in ; and having received some
punishment, they proved more honest for the future;
And so'I bid farewell to this island, carrying along
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
ekin cap; setting sail December 12, 1687, after twcno
t -eight years, two months, and nineteen days resi-

ence; and landing in England, June 11, 1688, after
five and thirty years absence from my own country '
which rendered me altogether a stranger there.

FINIS-