.L.

then?

of

ILLS

E DI'JYC 1116

'in'gfth

II\

'obse

- '

.. ".0159

,_
.1

<3er

"msI'll
LIFE AND ADVENTURES

0?

(

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

IVITH A LIFE OF "'HE AUTHOR.

EMBEI LISEIED WITH ENGRAVINGS.

DY WM. ROBERTSON

BRISTQL, 11.1.
J. GLADDING a: 00.

1836

Qy}unri-

I'flI W.-

mrn or in: iron;

I
----

i .

DANIEL" DE FOE war descended from a respectable
family in the bounty of Northampton. and born in- London,
about the year "$63. llie'father. James Foe. wan butcher. in
the parish of St. (Lles'. ( 'ripplegate. and a protestant diuenter.
Why the euiijezt of this memoir prefixed the De to hiefaniily
unzne cannot now be ascertained. nor did he at any periodof
his life think it necessary to give his reason: to the publie.
The political ecribhlers, oi. the day however. thought proper to
remedy tins lack of information. and accused him of pasteu-
ing so little ol' the outer prurile. aeto make the addition 'irvor.
der, that he might not betaken for an Englishman; though '
this idea could have had no other foundation 'than'_ the eircurn.
stance of he hav mg. in consequence of hie zeal for kin Willifaai, '
attacked the prejudmee. of his countrymen in hie " rue-bore

. Englishman." , .

After receiving a good education at an academy at New. ' g
ington. young De l-'oe. before he hatl attained hietwenty-firat >3; .'

ear. summarised his career as an author. by writiuga palnpho , "'

' et against a very prevailing sentiment in favour of the Turii, ' v;
who were at that time laying siege to Vienna. Thin produce} gay
humming very inferior to that :e of his inaturer years. warmly -
little read. and the illd.gzlaflt author, despairing of Inocu- '
with his pen. hal recourse to the sword; or. as he termed it.
when heading of the exploit his latter years. "displayed".
attach mnt toliherty and protestanti'sm." hyjoining the .illoade
vised insurrection umier the duke of Monmouth. in they" I>>
On- the fadure- 0" Hit it ifii'eit'iate enterprirog, trimmed '

' age III to the momma" it-'ie not improbable. biitl'th'atlht . :
em variance of-hiabei'ng a native ef- lhdmueud'hii you:
all. Iotutueh known in thatpart of theme".

<<-which took place. might theiliate his escape, and be the
means of preventing his being brought to trial for his share in
the transaction. With the professions of a writer and a soldier
Mr. De Foe. in the year 168.3.joined that of a trader, he was
first engaged as a hosier. in (.'ornhill. and afterwards as a
maker of bricks and pantiles Mar Tilbury Fort in Essex: but
in consequence of spending tnosc hours in the hilarity of the
tavern which he ought to have employed in the calculations
of the counting-house. his commercial schemes proved unsuc-
cessful; and in 1694 he was o'iliged to abscond from his credi-
tors. not failing to attribute those misfortunes to the war and
the severity of tho times. which were doubtless owing to his
own misconduct. ltis much to his credit however. that after
having been freed form his do!) 5 by composition. and being in
prosperous circumstances from King William's favour. he
voluntarily paid must of his creditors both the principal and
interest of their claims. This is such an example of honesty
as it would be unjust to De PM and to the world to conceal
The amount of the sums thus paid must have been very con-
siderable. as he afterwards t'eelingly mentions to Lord Haver
sham who had ropmached him with covetousness; "With a
numerous family. and no helps but my own industry. I have
forced my way through a'sea of misfortunes. and reduced my
debts exclusive of composition. from seventeen thousand to
less than five thousand pounds."

At the beginning of the year 1700. Mr. De I-'oe published a
satire in verse. which excited very considerable attention. call-
ed the " True-born Englishman." Its purpose was to furnish
a reply to those who were continually abusing King William
and some of his friends as foreigners. by shewing that the
gresent race of Englishman was a mixed and heterogeneous

rood.scarcely any of which could lay claim to native purity
of blood. The satire was in many parts very severe; and
though it gave high offence, it claimed a considerable share
of the public attention. The reader will perhaps be gratified
by a specimen of this production, wherein he endeavours to
account for

" What makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in times of peace. than war;
Why civil feuds disturb the nation more,
Than all our bloody wars had done before:
Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place.
And men are always honest in disgrace;vi!

The court preferments make men knnves tn course
But they. who wouad be in them would be worse.
"l'is not at foreigners that we repine.

Won d foreigners their perquisdes resign:

The grand contention s plainly to be seen.

To get some men put out and some put. in."

It will be immediate'y per.:eivcd that Do Foe could have no
pretensions to the character of a purl.- but he has uotwitlio
<<animgmome nervous anJ well-vermfied lines. and in choice
of snoleot on! meal he is in genera excellent. The True-
oorn tinglislunun concludes thus:--

" Could but on: aux-store retrieve their fate,
And see then- oii'sprnig thus degenerate;

How we contend t'or birth 311.1 no. nos unknown,
And bui'd on their past actions. not our own;
Thev'd ext-ice! re :or.ls. an I their tombs deface.
A'tl openiy disown the vile degenerate race.

For fame of ih'nilies is all n cheat;

"l'is reason". vm'rur: oxm MAKES us omen."

For this defence of foreigners De Foo was nmply rewarded
07 King Wi.lia-n, who not only ordered him a. pension. but as
we opponents denn n'natel it. appointeJ him pamphlet-mutter
generu' (uh: to art; at oh :e For which he was peculiarly well
calcn atel. pas-1 :<<i 1:. with a strong mind and a ready wit.
that kinzl o." yiclJing conscience which allowed him to support
the me'isires oi' his benefactors. though convinced they were
iniurlolw to his country. De l-'oenow retired to Newington,
Wllh his Family, and for a short time lived at ease; but the'
deals: oz'hiuoyal patron deprived him of a-generous protector,
and opened ascene ol' sorrow wh.ch probably embittered his
futurelife.

He had always discovered a great inclination to engage in
religious controversy. and the f nrions contest. civil and eccle-
siastical, which ensued on the accession of Queen Anne. gave
him an opportunity of gratifying his favourite passion. . Ho
therp'bre pn'ilishcd a trant e~nt'tled -' The shortest Way with
the D255;- ite~s, or Propoz-als for Ihe Estahlish nent of the

Elm-c I. ' w'riz-h motainel a'i ironim recommendation ol'peh
mention. but written in so serious :1 strain. that many persons.
particninr Dim eaten. a! first mist-m": its real intention. The
high chur h party hmveVur saw, and felt the ridicules, and by
their influence, a prosecution was commenced Jgaimt' him.

'h-fit-n;

-"'<<?i.'viii

all a proclamation published in the Gazette. ofi'ering a r.
ward for his apprehension.* When De Foe found with how
much rigour himselfand his pamphlet were about to he treat-
ad.he at first secreted himse.I'; but his printer and bookseller .
being taken into cu~tudy. hesuricmleled. IIcIng reso \cII. Its he
expressed it. "tolthrow him eil upon the Iavour oI I-oxeni.
ment. rather man that otIII-rs shnu. II Ic ru ncIl by Ins nus-
takes. " lII .lu y. 1703 he was IIqu rhtto trial. tound guIIty,
and senten ~.:e I to De iIIIpI-Isoned. to stand In the piIlory. and I0
pay a line of two hunurod marks. He underwent the IIII'aI-
mous part III the l amishmenl With great fortitude. and It senms
to have been genera ly IlIoII -_rhI that he "as tIoaIeII wIIlI un-
reasonable severity. So 'IIr was he tronI be. ng as. 'IaIIIe-I III
his tate himself. that he mote II hunn to tho pi'Ilory. winch
thus ends. lluding to his accuscrsz--

" Tell them. the men that ploc'd him here
Are scaiidais to the times;

Are at a loss to IiIIJ has guilt.

AnILcan t comi'mtlIIII' cranes.

Pope. who has thought lit to introduce him in his Dunciad
(probably from no other reason than party dIIf'erenee) charac-
teriul him In the followimr lIIIe:

" Earleaa on high stood unabash'd De Foe.'

 

,

" St. James a January l0. 1702-.3

' "Whereas Daniel De Fee. a'. iar: De F009. is charged with
writing a vandalnus and se. IItioua panph 'et. entItleII ~~ 'ihe
lhortest Way with the Disscntcrsz" he Is a IIIIdIllc-a. zed spare
man. about 40 years old. I). a brown complexion. and dark
brown coloured hair. but we care: II wig. a. hooked none. auhurp
chin. grey eycsm: II II largo Inole near his mouth was born m
i .ondon. and for many years was a IIIIse-l'aI- tor. in freeman a
had. in (' ornhill and now is owner of he brick and panrile
works near TIlbIIry Fort. in Essex . whoever shall discover
the said Daniel l)e Fee. to om- In her Maicrtys Principal
Secretaries of State. or anv of her Maicrty s Justices of
Peace. so as he may he apprehenchl. shall have It reward or
501. which her Majesty has ordered IIIIIIIedIately to be paid

upon such discovery."
- ' London Gas. No. 3879.v.

I:

This is One of those instance of injustice and malignltyyhleh
"frequently occur in the Dunciadumd which reflect more
dishonour on the author than onthe partiestruduced. De Poo
lay friendlese and distressed in Ncwgate. his family ruined and
himself wit'tout hopes of dehvernnco. ttll Sir Robert Harley,
who approved of h s przllttiplcs. untl foresaw that duringn tite-
tious age such a genius rould be converted to many uses,
represented his unmerited sutforings to the Queen. and at
length pro :ured-his release. The treasurer; Lord Godolphin.
also sent aconsidera'rla sum to his wife and family. and to lutn
money to my his ti r: and the expense of his discharge. Grati-
tude and fidelity are inscparawle from an honest man; and it
was this benevolent mt that prompted Dc Foe to support Har-
ley. with his a'de and ingenious pen.I when Anne lay lifeless.
and his hene'helor in the vicissitudo of party was persecuted
:iy faction, nal overpowered, though not conquered by Vic
ones.

The talents and perseverance of De Foe began now to be
properly estimated. and as a firm supporter of the administra-
tion. he was sent by Lord Godolpltin to Seotlandmn an errand
which. as he says, was far from being- unfit for a sovereign to
direct or an honest man to perform. His knowledge of com-
merce and revenue. his powers of insinuation, and shove all
his readiness of pen. were deemed of no small utility. in pro-
moting the union of the two kingdoms; of which he wrote an
able history. in 1709. with two dedications. one to the Queen.
and another to the Duke of Queenshury. Soon afterwards h'e
unnappily.by some equivocal writings. rendered himself sne-
pected by both parties. so that he ear-e more retired to New-
tngton in hopes of spending the remainder of his days in peace.
"is pension being withdrawn. and wearied with politics. he
began to co-nposc works ot' a difi'crent kind--The year I715
may therefore be regarded as the period of De Poe's political
life. Faction hence '0th found other advocateeand parties
procured other writers to disseminate their suggestions, and to
propagate their falsehoods.

ln 17H. De Poe pu'flished the -' Family Instructing" a work
inculceting the domestic duties in a lively manner. by nun-
tion and dialogue. and displaying much knowledge of life in
the middle ranks of so--tety. " Religious Courtship" also
appeared soon after. which. l.ke the " Family Instructor." in
eminently mundane and moral in :ts tendency. and strongly im-
press>> on the mind that spirit ot' sobriety and private devo-
'lnn fiat which the dissenters have generally been distinguish -

i0d. The most celebrated of all his works. " The Life and
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe." appeared in 1719. This
work has passed through numerous editions. and been trans-
lated into almost all modern lanIr uages. 'l be great invention
whi- :h Is displayed in it. the variety of incidents and I'irmlm-
etaIn as which itI omains. related In Ihe most easy and natural
manner. together w. th the exce'lenl-y o 'the moral and reli-
g-ous rename. render it a performance of very superior and
un: .20 mnon merit. and one of the most interesting works that
ever appeared. It Is stron :lv rev. 0: n: nond Id' Iy Rossean as a
b I: Ik adrnira- 'Ily calculated to promote the purposes of natural
e-rlu: atiIIII. - and Dr. Bi ai r says. I' No fiction In any language,
was ever better supported than the adventures ot Ro' Iinson
Crus Ie. While it is carried on with that appeavance of truth

and simplicity. which takes a strong hold on the imagination
of all readers. it suggests at the same time. very useful In-
} atruction; by shewing how much the native powP rs of men
maybe exerted for surmountinc the ditliculties of any exte nal
situation." It has been pretended. th.- It De Poe sI: rIe-- -titi ous-
ly appropriated the papers of A' exander Selk- .I. a SI-IotIh
mariner. who lived t'uur rears alone on the isiund of Juan
Fernandez. and a sketch If whose story had before appeared
in the voyage of Captain W oodes Rom-rs. But this charge,
though repeatedly and confidently broug. It. appnars to he to.
tallv destitute of any founlation. De Foo pivot-'11 Ilv took
some general hints tor iii 3 work from the stnrv of Selkirk. but
there exists no proot' whate'I er. nor is it reasons. 'Ile to suppose
that he pomsaei any of his papers or IneIIIoirs, which had
been published seven years before the appearanr'e of Robinson
Crusoe. As a farther proof of De l-oe' II innocence, (' aptain
Roger 8 account of Selkirk may be produIeIl. in which it is
said that the latter had neither preseried pen. ink. or paper.
and had In a great measure lost his language: consequent" y
De (- oe could not have received any written assistance. and
we have only the assertion of his enemies to prove that he
had any verbal.

The great success of Robinson Crusoe induced its author
to write a number of other lives and adventures some of which
were popular In their times. though at present near? y forIrIItteII.
One of his latn't [III' "I: ation was I' A Tour throuuh the ls-
a Id of Great Brit am. It par' 'IIrIIIIIn e o! \t'J'\ in' l'r or II I rit,
but be Foe was now the Lrarrulous old man. and his spirit (to
use the words of an ingenious biOI rapher.) "l he a candle

atrugghng In the socket. blazed and sunk, till it disappearedid

at length in total darkness." His laborious and m.-
fifewu finished on the 26thof April, 1731, inthe peril]: of I
Giles'. Cripplegate.

Daniel De Foe poesessed very extraordinary talent-g all

commercial writer. he is fairly entitled to stand in the {on '

most rank among his cotcmporaries. whatever may be the"
performances or their fame. llis distinguished choraoteriltitl
are originalitympint. and a profound knowledge of his only
feet. and in these particulars he has seldom been at)
As the author of Robinson Crusoe he has a claim not only :1
the admiration, hot to the gratitude of his countrymen: Int! 1!
long as we have a regard for surcremment merit and take a
interest In the Woltiire ot' the rising gonerot-on. that gntltudt
will not cease to exist. But the opinion of the learned ondi.
, genious Dr. Benttie will be the host culogium thatcan be prodno
ed on that celehratod romance: " Robinson Crusoe."says the
Doctor. *' must he allowed by the most rigid nmrahst. to be oned
those novels which one may read not only with pleasure but-IN
with profit. It breathes throughout a spirit of piety and be-
nevolence: it sob: in n verv striking light the importance (1
the mechanic arts. which they. who know not what it into be
without them. are so apt to undervalue: It fixes on the mind:
lively idea ot' the horrors of solitude and. conoeqiientlv d
the sweets of so :inl lit'e. tin-.l ot' the blessings we derive '
conversation and mutual aid: and it shows liow,liy labour>>
ing with one's own hands. one may secure independence."
open for one's self. many sources of health and tmm
103m, therefore. with Reese-on. that it is one of the be.
more that can be put into the hands of children."

LLJahia.... .. _ .f1.>>

_..._-_..

In.
LXFE AND ADVENTURES

Ol'

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

[was born in York, in the year 1632. of a reputable
family. My father was a native of Bremen; who by
merchandiziug at Hull for some time, gained a very
plentiful fortune. He married my mother at York,
wno received her first breath in thatcountry; and as
her'maitlen name was Robinson.l was called Robin-
son Kreutznaer; which not being easily pronounced in

the English tongue, we are commonly known: by the
name 'of Crusoe.

I was the youngest of three brothers. The eld
est was a lieutenatit-colonel in Lockhnrt's regiment,
hut slain by the Spaniards; what became of the other
I could never learn.

No charge nor pains were wanting in my education '
My father designed me for the law, yet nothing
could serve me but i must go to sea, both against the
will of my father, the tears of my mother, and the en-
treaties of friends. One morning my father expostu-
lated very warmly with me. What reason, sayshe,
have you to leave your native country, where there
must be a more certain prospect ofcentem and hop-
pinestt, to enter into a wandering condition of unea-
siness and uncertainty 2 He ieconnntndul to llzu
Agar's wish, neither to desire poverty nor riches;
' ' that at middle state of life was most happy ; and that4 nu ma nvsnroass or

the high-towering thoughts of raising our condition by
wandering abroad, where surrounded with misery and
danger, and often ended with confusion and disap-
pointment. I entreat you, nay [command you (says
he,) to desist from these intentions. If you will go
(added he,) my prayers shall. however, he ofl'm'ed I'm
your preservation; but a time may coilzr, when deso-
late, oppressed, forsaken, you may wish you , had
taken your poor despised father's counsel.---He pro-
nounced these words with such a moving and pa-
ternal eloquence, while floods of tears ran down his
aged cheeks, that it seemed to stem the torrentof my
resolution. But this soon wore off; and a little after,
I informed my mother that I could not settle at any
business, my resolutions were so strong to see the
world. and begged she would gain my father's eon.
sent 'only to go one voyage: whiz-h if it did not
prove prosperous, I Would never attempt a second.
But my desire was as vain as my fully in asking. My
mother passionatelyexpressed herdislike to this pro.
posal, telling me that as she saw I was bent on my
own destruction, contrary to their wiil and my duty.
she would say no more, but leave me to mySelf to do
whatever I pleased.

I was then. I think, nineteen years old. when one.
time being at Hull, I met a school-fellow of mine goo
ing along with his father, who was master of a ship.
to London; and aequainting him with my wandering
desires,he assured me of a free passage, and a plentiful '
share of what was necessary. 'l'hus without implor-
ing a blessing, or taking farewell of my parents, I'
took shipping on the lst of September. 1651. ~

Upon the 6th day, we came to an anchor in
Harwich road, where we lay wind-bound with some;
' Newcastle ships; and there being a good anchorejj
ego, and our cables sound, the seamen forgot thsil"mama 'eausoz. 0"

late toll-and danger, andspent 'th'e timers-'2 awry"
if-they- had been onshore. . But on th'e'eighth'-da'y,"
there arosfe a brisk galeof "wind, which preventedJ
o'ur tiding'it up the river;' and it stil!'~iucreiising, our:
ship rode forecastle in, and shipped sereml large"
seas . - ' . 9'

It was'not long before horror seized the seamen
themselves, and I heard the master express this
melancholy ejaculation, Lord have mercy upon "us, we"
shallall be lost and undone. "For my part, sick unto
death, I kept my cabin, till the universal and terri-
biy dreadful apprehensions of our speedy fate made
me get upon deck, and there I was afl'righted indeed;
The sea went mountains high : :I- could see nothing
but distress around us: two ships had cut away-their
masts, and another had I'oundered; twu more "that
had lost their anchors, were forced out to the mercf'
of the ocean; and, to save our lives, we were forced
to cut our foremast and mainmast quite away.

Who is there so ignorant as not to judge of my
dreadful condition? I was but a fresh water sailom
and therefore seemed more terrified. Our ship was
very'grod, but overloaded: which made the sailors
often cry out, She will founder'; Words I was then ig-
norantof. All' this while, the storm continuing and

rather increasing, the master'and the more sober part ' v

of the men went to prayers, expecting death every
moment. In the middle of thenight, one cried: out;
\Ve had sprung aleak; another, That there was four

feet water in the hold: I was just ready to expirei" '

withxfear, when immediately all hands were called to:
the-pump-';.atid the men forced me also in that exs'
tremity-to'share with them, in their labour. While"

I thus employed, the masterespying some colliers. fit" :

hedri'igun-as a signaliqf'disti'ess; and I- not' UBdEF"

. Mitig'hat it means-{hinting that chitin-1h"l .3

v "i"6 un AND anvnsrunu or

broke, or some dreadful thing happened. fell into n
swoon. Even in that condition of woe, nobody mind

ed me, excepting to thrust me aside with their feet,
thinking me dead; and it was a great while. before-
I recovered.

IlItppy it was for us, when upon the signal given
they ventured out their boat to save our lives. All
our pumping had been III vain, and vain had all our
attempts been, had they not come to our ship' a side.
and our men cast them a rope over the stern IIiIh a
bouy to it, which after great diiliculty they got hold
of. and we hauling them to us. got into their host,
and lelt our ship which we [(TCI'i'etl sink \Iilhin
less than a (I'dill'it' r of an hour' . and thus I lI~IIrut "he
was meant by l'IIIIIIIlI'I'iIIg at sea. And now the Ith
incessantly lillllttil't'd to l'('("l\'t'l' their own ship; hut
the scat III: I so high, and the uiml MI W so h,IIIIl that
the} th III-rht it ('JltllPlllt'l'. III haul in shore, which
IIitl'. gI' :tIliii" mm) II" III IhIIIuI'I III last no lIIIIIIIilI' cf-
fI-ctetl, IIIIIli Ig III. II p.III-e rIIllI (l (' "Him I. not I'm from
\Vinteiton light- house: from II'heIIt'II II'I- ail 'wulko
ed to lzIII'nnth. "hate, as IIlIIIeItts IIt pity. many
good people furnished us with the necessaries to car-
ry us eithcrto Hull or London.

Strange thIItIIt'tI-r all this. I did not, like the prodi-
gal Son. return to my litther: who heuriugof the
ship's I'alIIIIIity, for II long time thought the eIItIIInlIed
in the Ilcep. No doubt hutl should have shared in
the fluted mlf, IIstlw St'liphillt' ('I'Zl rcssoth it. but my
wayward Ilispositi -II still pushed me on in'spile of
the p:'l\VClrttl coutictions ol mm on and conscience.
When we had been III Ymtnouth thrI'e days I met
my old companion, who had when me the invitation
to go on board along with his father. His bt'lltfl'iull:
and speech was altered, and. in It IIII-lIIIII'hIIly man

1181' he asked me how I did. ? telling his father who Iioatxsou cannon. 7

wasand how .1 had made this voyage for 'a trial only.
to proceed further abroad. Upon-which the old 'gen

tleman turning to me, said. Young man. you ought
never to go to sea any more, but take this for a cer

tain sign, that you' will never prosper in a sea-faring
condition; Sir, answered I. will you take the same
resolution? It is a difl'erent case, said he, it is my
calling. and consequently my duty; but as you have
made this voyage for a trial. you see what ill 'luck
heaven has set before your eyes; and perhaps our
miseries have been on your account, like Jonah in
the ship of Tarshish. But, pray, what are you. and
on what account did you go to sea? Upon which. I
very freely declared my whole story: at the end of
which he ma le this exclamation, Ye sacred pOWersl
what had I committed that such a wreteh should en-
ter into my ship. to heap upon me such a deluge of
miseries! But soon recollectiug himself. Young
man. said he, if you do not go back, depend upon it,
wherever you go, you will meet with disasters. and
disappointments, till your father's Words are fulfilled
upon you. And-so m.- parted. '

l thoughtat first to return home; but shame oppmo
ed that good notion. as thinking I should he laughed
at by my neighbours and acquaintances. So strange
is the nature of youth! They are not ashamed to
sin. but yet ashamed to repent, and so far from being
Sorry for those actions for which they may he account-
ed fools, they think it folly to return to their duty,
which is the. prim'ipnl mark of wisdom. InshortJ
travelled up to London, resolving upon a voyage, and
a voyage I soon heard of. hy my acquaintance with a
captain who took a fancy to me. to go to the Coast of
Guinea. Having some money and appearing liken
gentleman, I went on board. not as a common sailor or
foreman-man. nay. the commander agreed I shoulda I!!! AND ADYENTURIS of

0 that voyage with him without any expense, ' that

should be his messmate and co panion, and that l
was welcome to carry any thi ng \ ith me, and make
the host merchandise 1 could.

I blessed my happy fortune. and humbly thanked
my captain for his oiier. and acquainting my friends
in Yurkshire, forty pounds were sent me. the great-
est part ot which my (.l( "at father and mother contrib-
ute'd, with which I bought toys and tfifles as the
Captain directed me. My captain aliso taught me
navigation, how to keep an account of the? old; I's
course, take an olIseraIion, and ltd me into the
ltnowledue of s'eIeIal useful branches of the mathe-
matics. And indeed this voyaue made me both a
sailor and a meIclIant; for lbi-oIIulIt home five pound-
nine ounces of gold dust, tor mv adventure, which
produced, at my retIIIn to London, almost three
hundred pounds; but In this voyage I "as extremely

ir.k being thrown into a violent fever, through ex-
cessive heat, trading upon the coast from the latitude
of'titteon degrees noItlI, even to the line itself.

But. alas! my dear friend. the captain, soon dc-
parted this life afteI his arrival. This was a sensible
grief to me; yetl resolved to go another voyage
wuh his mate, who had now got command of the ship.
This proved a very unsuccessful one , for though I
did not carry a hundred pounds of my late acquired

'wealth. (so that I had two hundred pounds left,
which I reposed with the captain's widow, who was
an honest gentlewoman. ) yet my misfortunes' III this
unhappy voyage were \ery great. For our ship sail-
ing towards the Canary Islands, we were chased by
a Salee rover; and In spite of all the haste we could
make, by crowding as much canvass as our yards
could spread, or our masts carry, the pirate gained
upon us, so that we prepared ourselves to fight.noaxxkon' canon". ' ",0 '

They" had eighteen guns, and we had" but twelve;
About three in the afternoon there II'IIsII desperate
engagement. IvherI-in man} \H'I'c lIiilI-d and II ounded
on both sides; but finding oursolIIw IIII~rIIuIIIred
with numbers, our ship disabled, nndouIsolII-s too
impotent. to how. the least hIII es ot'suI'II'ss, Inc "'0"!
forced to surrender; and HI'CUIIlll- IIII' IIe III-I9 all
carried prisoners into the port III Sulee. Our turn
were sent to the Etuperot' 3 Pull". III he sold therr; .
but the pirate captain taking notice oI Inc, kept me '
to be his own slate. -

In this conditiouJ thoughtmI sI If the most It isor-
able creature on with. and the l IIIPlH'Sy III n y father
came afresh into my thoughts. llIIIII-Ier, my con
ditiou was better than I thouurht it to he, as II III soon
appear. Some hopes , indeed, I lud that m) new
patron would go to sea again, alone he might he
taken by It Spanish or Portuuuese "Inn of "or, and
then I should be. sot at lIhI-rII'. But in this I II as
mistaken; for he never took IIII-I IIiIh him. but left
me t6 look after his little garden. and do the drud-

gery of his house. and IIhI-n he returned Irom sea.'_ 1 '

Would make me lie In the cahiu and look alter the
ship p. I had no one that I could coIIImuuiI-ate my
thoughts III. which "are I-oIItinImllv II: cditating' my
escape. No Englishman. Irishman, or Srotrlznmn
here but mysell: and for tIVo wars I could see no:
thing practicable, but only pleased II yselI' with the
imagination.
After some length of time. In} patriot, as I found.

'grew so poor. that he could not fit out his ship as
usual. and then he used cIIIIstnIItlI, once or tIIt (-e t
week, if the Weather "as fair. to go out a I;sl ing.'
taking me and It Ioung Moorish IIIII III IIIII the boat t.
and no much pleased was he IIith me for my dex-
(0:in in catching the fish that he Would often uld' .

 

"In. In; L>> ..u..:.N Lin AND mum-nan or

me with a Moor, who was one of his kinsmen, and
the youth before-mentioned to catch a dish of fish
for him.

One morning, as We were at sport, there arose
such a thick fog, that we lost sight ot'the shore; and
rowing, we knew not which nay, we laboured all
the high, and in tl e morning we found outselres in
the (:Ci'iiil, two lcogucs from land. flown-er, we
attained lll( re at length, and trade the grtatest haste,
because our stomachs were exceedingly sharp and
hungry. In order to prevent such disasters for the
future, my patron ordered a carpenter to build a
little state-room or cabin in the middle of the long.
boat: with a place. behind it to steer and haul home
the mainoshect. with other conveniences to keep him
from the weather, as also lockers to put in all man-
ner of provisions; with a handsome shoulder-of-
muttou sail gihing over the cabin.

In this, he frequently took us out a fishing; and
one time. inviting two or three persons of distinction
to go with him. laid in provisions extraordinary;
providing also three fusees, with powder and shot,
that they might have some. sport t'owliug along the
sea~coast. The next morning, the. boat was made
clean, her ancients and pendants ottt, and every thing
ready; but their tninds altering, my patron ordered
us to go a fishing, for that his guests would certainly
cup with him that night.

And now I began to think of my deliverance in
deed. In order to this, I persuaded the Moor to get
some provisions on board, and to procure some pow-.
der and shot, pretending to kill sea curlews, which
lie innocently and readily agreed to. In short, being
provided with all things necessary, we sailed out.

When we had passed the castle, we fell to fishing;
but though I knew there was a bite, I concealed thehontxaon cnuaol. . ll

matter, in order to put farther outto sea. Accord-
ingly we ran a league farther. when, giving the boy
the helm. and pretending to stoop for something. I
eeiZu-d Muley by surprise and threw him overboard.
As he was an exeellent swimmer, he soon arose and
made. 'towards the hunt; upon which I took int 5
fusee, and presented it at him: "Milky," said I,
"I never yet designed to do you any harm, and St'tk
nothing now hut. my freedom 1 know you are able
enough to swim to shore, and save your life; but it
you are resolved to follow me to the endangering of
mine. the very moment you proceed, I will shoot you
through the head." The harmless creature. at these
words, turned himself from me, and 1 make nodouht,
got safe to land. 'l'hen turning to the boy Xury, I
perceived he tremhled at the action; hot I put him.
out ofall'fear telling him. that "he Would he true and
faithful to me, I Would do Well by him and not. hurt
him.

we then pursued our voyage: [kept to the south-
ward, to the truly Barhnrian coast ; hut in the (link of
the evening. I changed my course. that I might keep
near the. shore: and having a fresh gale of wind, with
a very pleasant smooth sea. by three o'eloek next
day. I was one hundred and filty'mihs beyond the
Emperor of Moroceo's dominions. l eontinned sail-
ing for twe. days successiwly. till snrh time as the
wind shifting to the southward made me conclude,
that if any vessel was in chase of me, they would
proceed no farther. '

After so much fatigue and thought. I anchored at
the month ofa little river. I knew not what or \\ here,
neither did I then see any people. What I princi-
pally wanted .was fresh water; and l was resolved
about the dusk of the evening to swim ashore: but
no oooner the gloomy clouds of night began to auc-
eced the declining day, than we heard such barking,
roaring. and lulwllttfl' of wild creatures, that one
mlgnt have llmuglll the var) strongest monsters ol
na'ure had their residence time. Poor Xury, who
was almost deal with l'IeIII, entreated me not to go
on shore th It night. " Suppose I don't Xlll'}," said

I,' and In the Inornimr he should see men who are
Worse than those we fear, what then l" " 0 den we
may give them the shoot gun," said he, laughing,
"and the gun make them all run away." The wit,
and hr Ilteu Enulish which the boy had learned
among the captives of our nation pleased me e: Itirelr,
an i mde me still {under ol him than belore. \Ve
cIIIs'Il get but little sleep all night for the terrible
hIm-lings they made; and indeed we Were very much
all:- lSE'l'I mi.

The III \t morning. I was resolved to go on shore
to gi- tit: fiesh II- Iter, and venture Inysell among the
beasts or savaires, should either attack me. Xury
said in II.-'nII'l take one of the jars and bring me
some. i <<=ch lI:In why he would go and not I?
The pm? 'my answered, "lt' wild mans come, they
eat me. you -:~- Iway." This. indeed. increased my
afiectivxn IV he (fl-lib. " \VI-ll, dear any," said I,

III.

""e we! {Nth go ashore, hoth kill Wild mans, and
they shall eat mither of us." So giving Xury a
pie or ol'hI-s: -'I to eat. \Ie \\' Ided ashore, carrying no-
thing \I. 2th us but our arms, and tuo jars for water.
I did not go out of sight of the boat, as dreading the
savages coming down the river in their canoes: but
the boy seeinv a low descent or vale about a mile. In
the Country. he wandered to it; and then running
back to me with great precipitation, I thought he was
pursued by some savages or wild beasts; upon which
I approached, reSolving to perish, or protect him
from danger. As he came nearer to me, 1 saw some-nonmsox causal. [3

thing hanging over his shoulder, which was a crea-
ture he had shot, like a hare, but difl'erent in colour,
and with longm legs, ' however "e \u re glad of it,
for it piot'td Wllfllt'tsull e and nuttliSitlttg neat; but
what added to our joy 1111s, my bu) assured me there
Was plenty 'ol'ht'atet', and that he " saw no wild
mans." And greater still'was our comfort when we
found fresh water in the creek where we were "hen
the tide was out, nithout going so far up into the
country.

In this place I hegnn to hope that I should meet
some of the English trading Vessels, who would re-
lieve and take us in.

The place. I was in, was no doubt, that Wild country
inhabited only by a few, that lies between the Em-
peror ol' Morocco's dominions and the negroes. It
is filled with wild beasts, and the Moors use it for
hunting chiefly. From this place I thought I saw
the top of the mountain Tenerit'e, in the Canaries,
which made me try mice to attain it, but as often
Was I driven hack, and so forced to puxsue my for-
tune along shore.

Early one morning; we came to an anchor under a
little point Orland, hut prettv high , and the tide be-
ginning to flow, we lay readv to no further in; hot
X11ry,.whose y.outhl1il and penetrating eyes were
sharper than mine, in 11 solt tone deshed 11; e to keep
far from land, lest we should be devoured; "For
look yonder master. and see (it: dreadful nonsler
fast nsleep on de si' te ol'de. hill. " Aecmdingly look-
ing where he pointed, I espittl a featlnl Inonstei in
deed. It 11.1511 ternhle g1 eat lion that lay on shore
Covered as it Wt re [1373 shade of a piece of the hill
"Xury," said], ")ou shall go on shore and kill
him." But the boy looked amazed. "Me kill him!'
says he, "he eat me at on; mouth, " meaning one14 1.1113 AND ADVENTURES or

mouthful. Upon which I bid him lie still, and chargc
ing r ' biggest gun with twu slugs, and a good charge
of -p.-1'-.-der, I took the. best aim I could to shoot him
through the head; but his leg lying over his nose, the
slug make his kneeabone. Tue lion awaking with
1.111: pain.g nt tip, but soon fell down, giving the most
hideous groan I ever hem 1| but taking my second
piece 1 shot him through the head, and th1-n he lay
snuggling for life. Upon this, Xury took heart, and
desired my leave to go 1111 shore. " Go then," said I.
Upon which, taking 11 little gun in one. hand, he swam
to shore with the other, and coming close to the lion
put a period to his life, by shooting him again through
the head.

But this was spending our ammunition in vain, the
flesh not being good to 9111. any was like 11 chum-
pion, and comes 1111 board for a hatchet to cut off the
head of his enemy; but wanting strength to perform
it, he cut off and brought me a foot; I bethought me,
however, that this skin would le of use. This cost
Kitty and me a whole day: when spreading it on the
top of our cabin, the hot beams of the sun efl'ectually
dried 11 in tWo day's time, and 1t atternards served me
for a bed' to lie on.

And now we sailed southerly, living sparingly on
our provisions. and went no oftener on shore than
we were obliged for fresh water, in hopes to meet
some European ship. If Providence did not favour
me, my next course was to seek for the islands, or
lose my life among the negroes; in a wold, either I
must meet with some ship or certainly perish.

One day. as we were sailing along, we saw people
stand on the shore looking at us: we could also per-
ceiie thev no'e black, and star k naked. I was
inclined to go 1111 shore; but Xury eiied, No, 110;
however, I approached nearer, and found they rannenmsou causes. 15

along the shore by me a long way. They had no
weapons in their hands, except one, who had a long
. stick, which Xury told me was a lance, with which
they could kill at a great distance. I- talked to them
by signs, and made them sensible I wanted some.-
ttnng to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat,
while two of them run up into the country, and in
less than half an hour came back, and brought with
them two pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, which
we kindly accepted; and to prevent any fears on
eithet 'side, they brought the food to the shore. laid
it down, then wentand stood a great way otl', till we
fetched it on board and tlten came close to us again.

But while. we were returning thanks to them, bring
all we could all'ord. twu mighty creatures came I': om
the mountains, one as it were pursuing the other
with great fury, which we were the rather inclined to
believe, as they seldom appear httt itt the night. and
both these swiftly passing by the ncgroes, jumped into
the sea, wantonly suimn.ing about, as though the
diversion of the waters had pttt a stop to their fierce-
times. At last one of them coming nearer to my boat
han I expected, or desired, I shot him directly
through the head, upon which he sunk immediately,
yet rising again, he would have willingly made to
the shore, but between the wuund and the struggling
of the water, he died before he could reach it.

It is impossible to express the eonsternation the
poor negroes were in at the firing of my gun : much
ices can 1 mention their surprise, when they per,-
cetved. the creature to be slain by it. I made signs to
them to draw near it with a rope, and then gave it to
them to haul on shore. It was a beautiful leopard, which
made me desire its skin; and the negroes seeming
to- coiret- the carcase. l freely gave it to them. As
for the other leopard, it made shore, and ran with

\
a prodigious swiftncss out of sight. The negro"
having kindly furnished me with water, find with
what roots and grains their country afforded, I took
my loave- IIIIIl. IIIII'Y I=.lI-IIIII. IIIIIs' suil, can. I: in sight
of the (lope IIII VIIrIl. But the II'rIIIII I.isIaIIIe I "as
from them. and fearing IIoIIIIIIIy IIi:IIls \" oulIl prevent
me reaching "IN", I bI'gIIII to grow IIIIIlIIIII'lIoly 11ml
IIIIjIIcIIIIl; when upon II suIlIlII IXII IIrI-' ('JICII ouI, " Mas-
.er, )IIIsIIIr," looking as IIIiiiIIlIII-II us if it I as his

master 's sl.' Ip TONI, iII sIIIIIIIlI ol us. BIII I soon dis-
covered she was II I'IIIIIIgIII-se ship. Upon which I
strove for life to Come up III IhIInI. BIII in vain had
it. been, if tIll'UuI'll IhI-iI pIII we I the <<losses, then had
not perceived us, and Show or III lIII-ir sail to let us
come in. IIIIIIIIIII'IIIIIIII III II. is. I set up my pIIIrIIII's
anciem. IIntl tiIeIl a gun, INIIII IIs signals ol (lIsIH'SS;
upon which they I'III-I' lIinIllI lay Io. so that in Ilnee
hours' IiIne I CIIIIIII up IIiIlI IlII- IIII. "yllIII spokI' Io Inc
in Portuguese, Spanish, and IIIII.I'h, lIIII none of
these did I understand, lill III Ion-11h II SI'IIII lI sailor
called, and then I told him I was an I.IIglislIIIIIIII,
who had escaped from tho Moms III SIIlIIII upon
which they took me lIiIIIJj on [mom] with all my
efli-I'Is.

Havinv II pleasant I'III'IIIre to the Brazils. we ar-
rived III IIIII BI II' I18' I 'oIlos los Santos. or, All Saints
Bay, in IwenII' two IlII_Is III'IIIr. Aml IH'I e I III annoI
for'qe: the generous IH'HIHIPIII of II; o captain. He
would take noIlIiIIIr for my passngo, IIIII-II me twenty
ducals for the lIIopIII-Il's skin, and thirty for IlIII lion' 3.
Everv thing In: caused to he deliI'IIIIIIl, and IIhIIII
would So". he bought. III short. I mmle '220 pieces
of nII' cargo. and IIiIh IlIis sIoIlI I IIIIIered once
more. as I I III' IIII into II: I- some of life.

To be lIIieI", 1 how. III dSCIIiOiHFnI. noxIIo an hon-
est and kind neighbour, born III Lisbon, of Englishnonunion CRUSOI. 17

parents, whose plantation joining to mine. we im-
proved very amicably together. Both our stocks
were low; and for two years no planted only for
food; but the third year We planted some tobacco,
and each of us dressed a large piece of ground for
the ensuing: year for planting sugar-canes.

l was in some measure settled, before the captain
who took the up departed from the Brazila. - One
day I went to him, and told him what stock I had in
London, desiring his assistance in getting it sent out '
to me; to which the good gentleman readily con-
semed, hut Would only have tne send tor half my
money, lest it should miscarry, \t'l.ich,_if it did. I
might still have the rcinaintlcr to support me; and
so taking lctters of procuration from we, bid me
trouble myself no further about it.

And indeed he not only procured the money I had
drawn for upon my captain's widow, but sent me
over a servant, with a cargo proportionable to my
condition. He also sent me tools of all sorts, iron
work, anti utensils ncccasary for my plantation.

\Vealth now increasing on me, and uncommon
succeess crowning my prosperous labours. [might
have rested happy in that middle state of life my t'a-
ther an often recommended; yct nothing would con-
tent Inc. Havingr lived four years in Brazil. I had
not oniyleurucd the lauguagc, hut contracted ac-
quaintance with the most eminent planters, and even_
with the merchants of St. Salvadorc. three of whom
came 'one morning to me saying they had a secret
proposal to make. Aftercnjoiuing me to secrecy,
they told me they had a mind to (it out a ship. to go
to Guinea, in order to stock the plantation with ne-
groes, which as they could not be publicly sold, they
would divide among them , and if 1 would go their
aupercargo in the ship, to manage the trading park
I should have int equal share of the negrocs, without
providing any stock. The thing inth d wins fair
enough. lInd l been in another (.'utlllillull: hum rtr
I could not resist the prop-sail, but am p.t d the nth r,
upon Condition of their looking le'u-r my pinntnt on.

The ship being titted out, and all thinbs want. no
set sail the first of September, 105:). V. c sailed
northward upon the. coast, from "hence going further
Into the orennout of the sight of land, Wt' st: eIt-d as
though we were bound for the island Fernnnd de
chtulttt. leaving the islands on the east. and then
it was we met with a terrible tenIpast. whit-II eon-
tinned for twelve days stIt-eessively. so that the \\ inds
carried us whe-r-(snevet iltt'V plenseni [II ti ls cor-
plexitv one. of our men died , and n In an ("til :I buy
were washed own!>> and \1 ht II the nenther clenrtd
up a little, we found ourselves upon the coast ol
Guinea. Upon this the captain gave reasons for
returning, which I opposed, entnIa-ejing him to stund
away for BaII-batloes, IIlIich as I sup posed might be
attained in fifteen dais. So altering cur course, we
sailed north u est :IIIil hv nest in order to rench the
Leeward Islands; 1);. 't .I see. Ind st- Inn succeeding,
drove "5' to the \I'esttvurd, an that we weIc justly
afraid of falling into the hands oi cruel savages, or
the puns of the devouring ht :Ists or may.

In this gr: at distress, one of the men, early in the
morning. cried out, Land. ' Inn l. ' whit-h he had no
sooner said, than our ship struck noun a sand bank,
and, in a moment. the sen broke mer ht r in such a
manner that we exlIeeted we shunH perish immeui-
ately. ,We knew not where we wI-re. or upon what
land we were driven. wiethz-r it was an island, or -
the main. inhabited or not inhabited :lll'l we could
not so much as hope that the. ship would hold out
many minutes, without breaking in pieces, unless theRonmsox cnusox. _ .19

a 'nd by a miracle should turn about immediately.
"'hile we stIIIIIl lIIIIlIiIIg III IIIIe annther, expecting
deatn I-IerI' III IIIIeIII. IlII- mate IaIs hold of the beat,
nIIl II'i h the help III the rest <<rut her flung over the
shiI' I :I si III. . I III) IhIs IIII a" gal, beingeleven III num-
ber, Illlti I-.- IIIIIIIiIII-Il mus-elves III (rod 3 mere). and
the IIilIl sea. .-_-\III HIM" we saw Ill-.II this last eflIIrt
II'IIIIII II- It be a sufficient pIIIIeI: inn I'IIIIII (hath: so
hi rh did the sea liM'. t' :IIt it "as imp :ssihle the heat
sh-Iuhl liI'e. AI (0 III Ikiug II sail, Ive had I'IIHK', nei-
ther if We had IIIIIIIJ we make use IIi'aIIy. So that
when we haul I'IIII'eIl Ul' rather were driven about a.
league and II IIIIII'. II raging wave. like It lIII'Iy muun-
Iain cnnIc rulling InleI-n III' us. IIIIII took us with such
far). that at IIIII-e it III'erseI the hunt. 'l'hus being
swallowed up in II IIIIIIIIIInI, we. III II! IIIIlI time tII call
upnn IlIe. awful name IIi' God. and III iIIIphIIe. III IIIiIIg
quIcII'IIIiIInII, his infinite IIIIII-I-y III receive our depart-
ing souls.

Men are generally I'nnnIeIl insensihle. when sIrug-
glint: in the pangs III' III-IIIII: but while I was ever-
wheI-IIIIII with water. I ha-l the must Ilren ll'IIl appre-
hensions iIIInginalIlr. fur tl ejnys of heaven. and the
tIIrIIIeuIs ul' hell. seenwal III present themselves before
Inc in these dying ugIIIIiI-s. and even small space III
time, as it II ere lIeIIII-en life and Ileth. I was going
I thIIught I knew not IIhiIlIer, in a dismal gulf un-
knuwu, and as yet unpereeivml. neI'I r III belIIIlIl my
irieIIIlS. nor the liuht III this Ivm-Ill any more! I
strove han'Wl III the last e\IrI II ity, IIlile all my
rIIInpaIIiIIm IIeIe IIIerpIIuI-Ietl IIIIII I'llifllllitt'ti III the
deep; IIIII it "as tI-IIlI QII'IH I.ilfit'll|l_\' I III-pl my
hrenlh Ii.| the "me .IwIII iIso- if. and. re'IiIiIIg hark,
left IIIII-IIII IlII- show in Ill dead with the "alter l hali:
taken in. As SIIUII as I <<III IIII mI' Iuet, I run as km :3.
ul could, lest another wave should pursue me. Iuid, "O
N urn A1111 ADVENTURES or

carry me back again. But for all the haste I made,
I could not avoid it, for the sea came after me like a
high mountain, or a luriuns 1 Why , so that my busi-
ness was to hold my breath, and by raising myself on
the vater, to save myselt hy suimniingu The next
dreadful "ate huried me. at once menu or tl i111' t'1et
deep p, but, at the s ame. time, (art-it 1] me 11ith a 11. ighly
force iIIIII S\\IILII('SS IIIIIaIdS IIIe SIIUI',(' \VIII' 'II I'ilIsIIlg
myself, I held out as Well aspossihle, till at length, the
water havinur spent itself, began to 1e111r11, at 11hi1-l1 I
struck forward, and feeling ground again with my feet,
I took to my heels. '1 has being servod twice more,
I was at last dashed against a piece of rock, 111 such a
manner as left me senseless, but recovering a little
before the return of the wave, which no doubt Would
then overwhelm me, I held fast by the rock till
those succeeding waves ahated : and then fetch-
ing another run, was overtaken by a small wave,
which was soon conquered. But before any more
could overtake me,I reach1d the main land, 11 here
clambering up the clifls 11f tl: e shore, tired and al-
most speut, Isat down on the grass, ftee from the
danger of the foan 111g ocean.

No tongue can express the transports that my soul
felt at this happy deliverance. I was wrapt up in
contemplation, and often lifted 11p my hands 11ith the
profoundest humility, to the Divine P1111111 for saving
my life; when the rest of my companions "were all
drowned. And now I hogan to cast my ev1s around,
and to behold 11 hat place I 1111s i11,11 .1111! 11hatI had
next to do. Icould see 1111 house nor people . I 11115
wet, yet had no clothes to shift me deg tummy and thirs
tv, yet nothing to eat or drink-.1111 weapon to
destroy any creature for my sustenance, nor defend
myself against devouring beasts; in short, I had
nothing but a knife. a tobacco pipe. and a box.u

gonmson causal." ' 2!

hair filled with tohacco. The (lurksnmc night com-
ing upon mc. increased my {cars of lwing devoured
by \I'iiJ creatures. IIII' mind was I-luugul iIItII des-
pair. an.l INHIHLT lltl prospi-ct . as I thought, ol life
before Inc, I III'I paII- -d lnt IIIIoIlII- r i- ind ol dI ath II on
what I had lilit'l) I-scIIpI-d. l nallu-d ahout a lur-
Ion!>> to son if I could tin-l any l'rI-sh naII-r. IIlIich I
di.l, t I my ,'_"I" at i It: and taking a quid ol' toluII't-II
t-I pI'I-vcut lillngy'l'. I -_-ot up iltlU a thick hash} III-e.
nn.l seating; IIII'sull' so that I could IIoI. fall. a do-I-p
sleep ()"l'l'I-ltlk III!" and for that night, buried my
surrnws In a quiet. I'I'IIIISI'.

It was broad day the IIc.\'t mornimr he forcI awoke.
when I II: It only |)('lt'('IH-'(l the thIIpI-st nus ceased.
but saw the ship dIivoII almost as far as the rock
before-meIItioIII-d which wIs about a mile. from the
place where I \I'as.--\Vhen I came down from my
apartment in the trcc. I pcIcIiI'cd IIH' ship's tIoat
two miles distant on m} Ii- -ht l- and. lving on shore
as the waves had cast l.or. I thought to havc got
to her: but there being IIII iIIlI-t III "on r about half
a mile'- lIrcaIiIlI hi --t\I-I I- II it and Inc I II ttIrnI-d again
towards the sl.' IP, as hupimr to find somI-ztlittg for
my more iInmI diate suhsistancc. About noon, When
the 5021 II In so calm that I could come tIitlz' III a quar-
ter ot a mile ol hm, it was to my inII' I p rceiwd,
that if we had kept. on hoard. all our lives would
lIIIt'I- III-en sav-'d. These thoughts. and my Solitude,
drew tears lroIn my ewe. thoIIIrh all in vain. So
resolving to gct to the sh" up. I :ttippcd and leaped
Into the water: whcn snimnincr round her. I "as
afraid I C(Illld not get anv tl=' mg to la} hold of; but
it was, mt' gltml fortune. to espy II so alI liccc ot rope
hanging down do low. that, hy tho hI-lp at it, IhoIIuh
with great difficulty. I got into the ship. Here!
'Itmd that the ship was bilged. and had a great deal of"B an urn "antenna or;

water in her, her stern was lifted up against a bank,
"d her head almost in the water. All her quarter,
and what was there, \Vtre free and dry. The provi-~
sions [ found in good order. and loosing no time, ate
while I was doing other things. I also found some
rum, of which I took a little; and now I wanted for
nothing except a huat, wl.irh ineccd "as all, to carry
away what was needl'ul l'or u.e.

Neeessity occasions a quickness nl'thought. "((9
had several spare yards, a spare tol u.a.--t ut'lwu, and
ttvo or three large 5] ars of wood. \'v ith these 1 tell
to work. and siung as many of tht Ill t.-Vell)tml(l as I
could manage. tying every one of lltt m uith a rope
that they might notdrive away. This done, I went
down the ship's side and tied four of them fast to-
gether at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two
or' three short pieces of plank upon them cross ways,
[found it would bear me but not any considerable
Weight. Upon which [went to work again, cutting
a spare tnpmast into three lengths, adding them to
my raft. with a great deal of labour and pains. I
then. first laying upon it all the planks and boards I
could get, next lowered don it three of the sehn en's
chests. after I had tilled them with bread. rice, three
Dutch cheese, five. pieces of dried guat's flesh, and
some European corn, what little the rats had spared;
and for liquors, I found several eases of bottles, in
Width were some Cordial waters, and four or~fi\'e
gallens of arraek. By this time the. title beginning
to flow. I perceived my coat, uaistet-at and shirt
swim away, whit-h i had lelt on shore: us for my
linen, [met-hes, and storltings. I suam'with them to
the ship: but l'soou found (-lothts enough, though
I took no more than I wanted for the present. My
eyes were chiefly on tools to work with. and after a
long search. I found out the carpenter's chest. which

1- .j""$55.3." I

'aoaxmoa coo-on. , ' ' Q

I got safe down on my raft. I then looked for am .
and ammunition. and III the great cabin, found two ' I
good fowling pieces. two pistols, several powder 2-
horns filled a an all bag of shot. and two rusty "
sIIoIIls. l IilIoIIise found three barrels of powder.
too of IIlIiIh "NO uoIIIl but the third had taken
wateI, also tuo or llll't't' broken oars. tu'o saWs, an
axv, and II IIIIII: II er. l the -u put to sea, and III getting
to shore l.IIIl tlIIIe ('lltulllttgffllt'lllfi l. A smooth '
calm sea: 2. 'lhe tide rising and setting in to the ' J
shore . 3. The little IIind there was blouing toward. '3'
land. After I had sailed about a mile, I found the 7 3".
raft driIing a little distance from the place uhere I "
first landed, and when I perceiIeIl an opening gof the
land, with a strong current of the tide ruuuiug into
.it. upon which I kept the middle of the stream. But -' '3:
great was my concern, when on a sudden the rare... ' _" '
part of my ral't ran aground. But after some time,>>
the rising of the \I ater caused the raft to float again.
and coming up II little riIer, IIith land on both sides.
I landed In a little cave, as near the mouth as possi-
ble, the better to discover a sail, if any such provlf '
dentially passed that wav.
Not iii: of}; I esp ied a hill of stupendous height; ..
surrounded with smaller hills about it, and thither I _ 7'
was resolved to go and view the country. that I
might see what part was best to fix my habitation
in. Accordinglv, arming my self with a pistol. a
' fowliog piece, poII der, and hall. I asce'nded the
mountain. There I perceiIed I was in an island,
encompassed by the sen. no distant lands to be seen, .
but scattering rocks that lay to the. nest: that it
seemed to be a barren place. and as I thought only"
5 ihhabitcd by wild beasts. I perceived abundance
" of. fowls, but Was ignorant of what kind, or whether
la? 'oocl for nourishment I shot one ;9f them at n;84 mm' Arr: Anni-nus a

return, which oceasioned a confused Ip'rea'min'
among the other birds. and I found it, by its colon!
and beak. to be a kind of hawk. but its tlesh mm per
feet ca rrion. '
When I mire to my raft, I brought mv efl'eet1
on shore, wbieh Work spt nt that day entirely : and
fearing that some t'rm-l beast might. dero'nr me In tne
night (time while I slept. I made a ltind of hot. or
barricade, with tlze rh-st and hour 5 I nail broil!!!"
on shore. That night I fill-{.1 wry eon-.i'ortaitlyz <<ml
the next morning my tltutlulils were t'tt.['.loyt'lt to
make. a forth 1' attempt to the ship. and bring away
what ttfleswries I could find, before another storm
should break her in pit-res. Areordingly. I got of
board as betbrv. and prepared a second raft. i'ar bn
ter than the. first; upon which I brought away the
carpenter's stores. two or. three bags full of nails. a
great jack-screw, a dozen or ttvo of hatehets, and a
grind-stone. I also took two or three iron crows,
two barrels of nuisket-lmllets. another t'owling piece,
a small quantity of powder. and a large bag full of
small shot. Besides these. I took all the nren'l
clothes I could find. a spare fore-top-sail. a ban;-
mock, and some bedding: and thus completed my
mood cargo, I made all the haste on shore I could,
fearing some wild beast might destroy what I had
there already. But I only finunl a little wild cat
lilting on one of the eln-stn. who not seeming: to real
me or the gun that I presented at her. I threw her a
piece of biseuit, which she instantly ate and depavted.
Whon I had got these etl'ects on shore. I went to
work, in order to make me a little tent with the sail
Ind some poles. "'lllt'l'l I had cut for the purpose. and

 

having finished it. what things might be damaged ;

by the Weather,I brought in, piling all the enrptg'
chests and cask: in a.circlc. the better to fortify' _ 'g
i
i

 

nonrnsoa canon. I

against any sudden attempt of man or beast. After

' this, 1 blocked up the doors with some boards, and

an empty chest turned the long way out. [then

charged my gun and pistol. and laying my bed on "

the ground. slept as comfortably till the next morn-
ing, as though I had been in a christian country.
, Now, though I had enough to subsist mea long
time, yet despairing of a sudden deliverance, an
fearing that both ammunition. and provision might
be spent before such a thing happened, I saved as
much as I could. and so long as the ship remained in
that condition, I daily brought away one necessary or
other; particularly, the rigging, sails, and cord-
age, some twine, a barrel of wet powder, some sugar,
3 barrel of meal, three casks of-rnm, and indeed
what was most Welcome to me, a whole hogshead of
bread. -
The next time I went, I cut the cables in pieces,
carried 011' a hawser whole, with a great deal of iron:
work, and made another raft; but this being an un-
wieldy, by the too heavy burden upon it, and I not
being able so dexterously to guide it as the former,
both my cargo and myself were overturned. For
my part all the damage I sustained was a wet skin;
and at low water, after much labour in diving. I got
up most of the cables, and Some pieces ofir-on. Thir-
teen days had I now been on the island, and eleven
(lays on board, bringing away all that was possible
As I was going the twelfth time, the wind began to
rise; however, I ventured at low water, and rummag>>
ing in the cabin. in a locker. I found several razors;
scissors, and some dozens of knives and forks, and in.

-' another. thirty-six pounds" in pieces of eight, silver and

gold. I wrapped the money up in a piece of eaten".
qnd began to think of making another raft ;' 'but .I

anon perceived the wind beginning to rise a {rash

 

L) Hum;26 sure mp anvexeuus or

gale blowing from the shore, and the sky overcast
with clouds and darkness. So thinking It wit to be
in train, I let Invsell' into the water with what things
I ha I IIII Iut lll' :IInl it was with <<m at dillit'nlty I got
ashore. II hen s I. III IIlter it blew a l'I'IIIluI slot III

That ni rIII I slept I'ety ('Ulll('lll('t"\ in my little
teIII,sIIrI-IIIIII Is. I with IIII IIII I-ll'eI ts; hut II henl looked
ontin the IIIoIIIi Ig. n: I III we ship II Its to be seen. 'lhis
much surprised lll'.' l'Ir the present: yet, when 1 Pull
si Ieretl IIIII -t l h: III last III lime, IIIIIItI-II IIII pains, and
had got everv thin'r lh'tfllll out of her, I cIIIIIl'Irted
in_v"sell III the best IIIIIIIIIIII, :Ind cIIIiI'elI' submitted to
Divine Proti home. 3

MV next thoughts were. how I should defend and
secure InIseII' IIoIII savages and IIild beasts, it any
such ware in the island.

\Vhen I considered the. ground where I was. that
it was marshy, and had It I fresh water near it. m
. resolutions were to seIIIch for It soil healthy at 'Hl II ell
wntereIl. where! mi-Iht not onlv he sheltered trom
the. sun's scoI-I-hin r III-III, but be more I-IIntenientIy
situated, as well to be secured lrIIIII will men. III: II
beasts of prey. as more. easy to discuver any distant
call, should it ever so happen. '

And indeed it was not long hel'ore I had my desire.
I found It little [lain near a I'isiIIIr hill, the front to-
wards which, IIIei: III as steep Its a house side, nothing
conll descend on me "am IIII-t top.

On the side of tlIIs rock II as It little hollow place,
resembling the. entrance or door III'II cave, Just be.-
t'ore this place. on the ('lrl'lt! of the green I res'IlI'ed
my tent should sIIIII-I. T :l" plain dil not mtII-h ex-
ceedia l'IItn Ire l I'Itr'Is lH'lm'l, :Ind IIh-IIIt twiI-I- as long,
like a deli rhtl'nl (TI'OPII le'Irv my II Ior. "ill: a pleas-
ing. thouIrh irregular descent everv no) to the In"
grounds by the see side. sheltered from the excessive1" _ I . - . 1' wry;
.;. I

I

I

3931st I cans". \ i 8:!

heat of the sun. Al'ter this. I. drew a semicircle.
twenty yards In IliaInI-IeI. IlIiI'ing down two rows of ,
stron . stakes Iint six inI-LI s from each other. Then.
with the pll'l'cs of cable which I thl I III on board, I
reunarl; laud theIn III II Ii: I-le bIIIII-en Ihe piles. up .

to their tops, Irl. iIle \\'('le more than five feet out of
the math, and the II dIoI'II another row of piles. look-
Ing IIIitlIiIIsi-le against them, between tIIII or three
feet high, II lIIch made me I-IIIIIluIle it a little
castle. iIIIpItI-unable hv IIII II and LII asts. And for my
better sIIeuIin I II nIIlIl have no door, but entcred' In
and came out by the help 01 II ladder. IIlIiclI I also
made. '

. Here was Iny fence and f Irtress, iIItoII'hichI car-
ried all my I'iI'hPS. IIIIIIIInnitioII, and stores. After
which. Workine on the rock, II but Iiith the dirt and
stones I dug out, I not only Iaised my ground two
feet, but made a little cellar In my mansion-house
'and this Cost the many IlaIs' labour and pains. One
day in particular, a shower ul' rain falling. thunder
and liIrhtning ensued, which put me in terror lest'niy
powder should take tire, and not onlv hinder my
necessan subsistence, by killing my loud, but even
blow "palm and III) lIaIbiIIIIio'. I. To prevent which.

1 hell to making boxvs antl' nngs, in order to separate '
it. having by me near l50lb, weight. And thnsibeing
established as king of the island. every day! went
out with my gun to see II hat I could kill that was fit . >> 'I
to eat. I so III perceived numbers of going>> but we
shy: yet i: uvin; IVIIII-lII-Il t' em IIIIrrIIIIlIIaIIIl seeing?
could better shoot oil the IIII-ks than II in IIin the. low
3. "Hillel. l lIIIppIIIIIIl to shout II she-trout snekltngaf'
yonnur kiJ - II hII'h. not thinking Its IlIIIII slainrggnu
bI: her unconcerned and II hen I took the' dead "ennui-I,"

up. the young one :nllowed me even to the endow?

I lifted the kid over the pales. and would 'M. .i an in "vagaries or

iy have kept it alive. but finding it could not be
brought to eat, I was forced to slay it also for my
subsistence. '
Thus, entered into as strange a state as ever any
man was in, I had most nzeiaueholy apprehensions
concerning my deplorable condition; and many times
the'tcars would plentit'ully run down it y lace. u hen
I considered .how I was d1 barred from all communi-
cation with human kind. Yet while these desponditg
cogitations Would Stein to make me accuse Prou-
:.ence. other good thoughts would interpose and se-
firove me. after this manner ; " Well, supposmg you
are desolate, is it not better to be so, than totally 1""
sh? Why should you complain, when not only ym:
fife is preserved; but the ship driven into your reach.
a order to take what was tucessary out of her for a
subsistence 2" But to proceed: it was, by the. accent
I kept. the thirtieth of September. when l'first lundrd
on this island. About twelve days after. fearing Int
I should lose my reckoning of time, nay even forget
the sabbath days for want of pen, ink, and paper. I
carved with a knife upon a large post. in great letters,
" I came. on shore, Sept. 30, 1659," and set it up -n
the similitnde of a cross, on the sea shore where I
landed. Every day I cut a notch with my knife en
the sides at the square post. and that on the subbed
was as long again as the rest. and every first day .1
the month as long again as that long one. In ti>>:
manner [ kept my calender. weekly, monthly. J
yearly reckoning of time. But had I made a tun-s
strict search (as I did afterwards.) I need nit
have set up tlzis mark. For among the. pareels 2.>>
longing to the gunner. carpenter. and captain .-
mate,l found those very thinng l'wanted: partial.
hrly pens. ink. and paper; also I Iound two or three
compasses: some mathematical instruments. .dilll.

,.:"

,lperspective glasses, books of navigation, three Eng-

ROBINSON CBUSOE. ,

lish Bibles, and several other good books, which I, ,

carefully put up Here I cannot but call to mind, our

having a dog and 'two cats on board, whom I made '

inhabitants with me in my castle. Though one might
think I had all the necessaries that were desirable,
yet still I found several things wanting. My ink was
daily wasting: I wanted needles, pins, and thread to'
mend or keep my clothes together: and particularly
a spade, pick-axe, or shovel, to remove the'earth.
It was .a year before I finished my little bulwark;
and having some intervals of relaxation, after my
daily wandering abroad for provisions, I drew up this
plan alternately, as creditor and debtor, to remind
me of the miseries and the blessings of my life, under
somany various circumstances.

EVIL.

I am cast upon a de-
solate island, having no
prospect of a welcome
deliverance. How mise-
rable am I, singled out
' from the enjoyment or
company of all mankind.

Like a hermit (rather
should I say a lonely an
chorite,) am I forced from
human conversation.

My clothes, after some
time will be worn out,
and then I shall have
none to cover me.

a.

. soon.
But yet I am preservf
ed while my companions
have perished in the rag-'
ing sea.

Yet set apart to be
spared from death. And
He. who has so presei've
ed me can deliver me
from this condition.

Howevgr, I have food
to eat, and even a happy
prospect of subsistence
whilst life endures. .

At present I enjgz
what is absolutely'ne f ,
ful; and the climate" is so <<,
hot, that had I ever'itl';
many I should h
wear them.

  

'l-

.a'30

. When my ammunition
is wasted, then shall I
remain without any de-
fence against wild men
and beasts.

I have no creature, no

soul to speak to; none'
to beg assistance from.'

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 0!

Yet even thus, I see
no danger of any to hurt
me, as in Africa; and
what it" [had been cast
away upon that coast.

Is there not God to
converse with, and is he
not able to deliver thee?

Some comfort would it
be to resound my woes
where I am understood,
and beg assistance where
I might hope for relief.

already has he afforded
thee sustenance and put
it in thy power to pro-
vide for thyself, till he
sends thee a deliverance.

And now, easing, my mind a little by these reflec-
tions, I began to render my life as easy as possible.

I must here add to the description I have given of
my habitation, that having raised a turf wall against
the outside of it, I thatched it so close as might keep
it from the inclemency of the weather; I also im-
proved it within, enlarged my cave, and made a pas-
sage and a door in the rock, which came out beyond
the pale of my fortification. I next proceeded to
make a chair and table, and so began to study such
mechanical arts as seemed to me practicable. When
I wanted a plank or board, I hewed down a tree with
my hatchet, making it as thin with my axe as possi-
ble, and then smooth enough with an adze, to answer
mv designs; yet though I could make no more this
way than one board out of a tree, in length of time,
I got boards enough to shelter all my stores, every
thing being regularly placed, and my guns securely
hangin against the side of a rock. This made it a
very p easant si ght to me, being the result of vast
labour and great diligence , which leaving for a
while, and me to the enjoyment of, I shall give the

Anosmsox cnvson. 3]

render an account of some parts of my journal-from
the day of my landing, till the setting of my habita-
tion, as heretofore shown. '

 

i JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659, I, unhappy Robinson Cru-
soe, having sufl'ered shipwreck, was driven on this
desolate island, which I named the Desolate Island
of Despair, the rest of my companions being swal-
lowed up in the tempestuous ocean. The next day
I spent in consideration of my unhappy circum-
stances, having no prospect but of death, either to be
starved with hunger, or devoured by wild beasts or

- merciless savages.

Oct. 1. That morning, with great comfort, I be-
held the ship drove ashore. Some hopes I had, that
when the storm was abated I might be able, to get
some food and necessaries out of her; which I con-

- ceived were not damaged, because the ship didstand
upright. At this time, I lamented the loss of m
companions, and our misfortune in leaving the vesse .
When I perceived the ship, as it were, to lie dry, I ~
waded through the sands, then swam aboard, the
weather being very rainy, and with scarcely any wind.

To the 14th of this month, my time was employed
in making voyages every tide, getting what I could
out of the ship. The weather very wet and uncero
tain.

Oct. 2'1. My raft, and all the goods thereon were
overset; yet I recovered most' again at low water.

Oct. 25. It' blew hard, and rained night and day,
when the ship went in pieces, so that nothing was. ._ .
seen of her but the wreck at low water. This 'day'
I secured my goods from the inclemency of. the '.
weather

"3".32 mm AND Amman-rungs or

Oct. 26. I wandered to see where I could find a
place convenient for my abode: I fixed upon a rock
in the evening, marked out a half moon, intending
to' erect a wall fortified with piles, lined within with
pieces of cables, and comred uith turf.

Nov. 3. I shot two Wild {0" ls, resembling ducks,
which were good to eat, and In the afternoon made
me a table.

Nov.4 4. Ibegan to live regularly. In the morn-
ing I allowed myself two 01 three hours to walk out
with my gun; I then worked till near eleven o 'clock;
and afterwards iefreshed m) self with u hat I had to
eat. From twelve to two, I) would lie down to sleep.
Extreme sultry weather. In the evening go to work
again.

Nov.5. Went out with my gun and dog, shot a
wild cat with a soft skin, but her flesh was good for
nothing. The skins of those killed I preserved.--
On my return I perceived many wild birds, and was
terrified by some seals which made of? to sea.

Nov. 6. Completed my table.

. Nov. 7. Fair weather, I worked to the 12th, but
omitted the 11th, which according to my calculation
I supposed to be Sunday.

Nov. 17. I began to dig in the rock, yet was obli-
ged to desist for want of a pick-axe, shovel, and
wheel-barrow. Iron crows I used to supply the place
of the first, but with all my art I could not make a
wheel-barrow.

Nov. 19. It was my fortune to find a tree resem-
bling what the Brazilians call an iron tree. I had
like to spoil my axe with cutting it. it being very
hard, and exceedingly heavy ; yet with much labour
and industry I made a sort ofa spade out of it.

Nov. 23. These tools being made, I daily carried
on my business; eighteen days I allowed for enlar-
ging my cave, that it might serve me not only for a
ware-house, but kitchen, parlour, and cellar. I com-
monly lay in the tent, unless the weather was so rainy
that I could not lie dry. So wet would it be at cer-
tain seasons, that I was obliged to cover all within the
pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large
leaves of trees resembling a thatch.

Dec. 10. No sooner did I think my habitation fin--
ished, but suddenly a great deal of the top broke in,
so that it was a mercy I was not buried in the ruins.
This occasioned a great deal of pains and trouble to
me before I could make it firm and durable.

Dec. 17. I nailed up some shelves, and drove
nails and staples in the wall and posts, to hang every
thing out of the way.

Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then
made a sort of dresser, and another table.

Dec. 27. I chanced to light on some goats, shot
one, wounded another; I led it home in a string,
bound up its leg, and cured it in a little time; at
length, it became so tame and familiar as to feed be-
fore the door, and follow me where I pleased. This
put me in mind to bring up tame creatures, in order
to supply me with food after my ammunition was spent.

Dec. 28. 29. 30. The weather being excessivelyhot,
with little air, obliged me for the most part to keep
within doors.

. Jan. 3. to 14. My employment this time was to fin-
ish the wall before described, and search the island. I
discovered a kind of pigeons, like our house-pigeons,
in a nest among the rocks. I brought them home,
nursed them till they could fly and then they left me.
After this, I shot some, which proved excellent food.
Some time I spent vainly contriving to make a cask,
I may Well say it was in vain, because I could neither
joint the staves, nor fix the heads, so as to make it
tight: so leaving that, I took some goats tallow I had
by me and a little oakum for the wick, and provided'
myself with a lamp, which served instead of can-
dles.

But now a very strange event happened. For be-
ing in the height of my search, what should come into
my hand, but a bag which was used to hold corn (asI
supposed.) for the fowls; so immediately resolving to
put gunpowder into it, I shook all the huslis and
dirt upon one side ofa rock, little expecting what the
consequence would be. The rain had fallen plenti-
fully a few days before: and about a month after, to
my great amazement, something began to look out
very green and flourishing; and when I came to view
it more nicely, every day as it grew, I found about ten
or twelve ears of green barley of the very same shape
and make as that in England. '

I can scarcely express the agitation of my mind at
this sight. Hitherto, I had looked upon the actions
of this life no otherwise than only as the events of
blind chance and fortune. But- now, the appearance
of this barley, flourishing in a barren soil, and my ig-
norance in not conceiving how it should come there,
made me conclude, " that miracles were not yet ceas-
ed ;" nay, I even thought that God had appointed it to
grow there without any seed, purely for my suste-
nance in this miserable and desolate island. And in-
deed such great effect had this upon me, that it often
made me melt into tears through a grateful sense of
God's mercies; and the greater still when I percein
mi about this little field of barley, some rice stalks.
also wonderfully flourishing. '

While thus pleased in mind, I concluded there
must be some more com in the island; and therefore

made a diligent search narrowly among the rocks;Roamsou on 050:. 35

but not being able to find any. on a sudden it came
into my mind, how I had shaken the husks of .corn
out of tlie bag and then my admiration ceased, with
my gratitude to the Divine Being, as thinking it was
but natural, and not to be conceived a miracle; though
even the manner of its preservation might have
made me own it as a wonderful event of God's kind
providence. '

It was about the latter end of June when the ears
ofcorn ripened which I laid up very carefully, together
with 20 or 30 stalks of rice; expecting one day I
should reap the fruit of my labour; yet four years
expired before I could allow myself to eat any barley
bread, and much longer time before I had any rice.
After this, with indefatigable pains and industry for
three or four months, at last I finished my house on
the 14th of April, having no-way to go into it. but
by a ladder against the wall. '

April 16. I finished my ladder,' and-ascended it;
. afterwards pulled it up, then let it down on the other _
side, and decended into my new habitation;- whereI '
had space enough, and so fortified, that nothing could
attack me without scaling the walls.

But what does all human art and industry' avail,
if the blessing of God does not crown our labours?
Or who can stand before the Aimighty, when he
stretcheth forth his arm? For one time as I Wig." '
the entrance of my cave, there happened suclifl'h'
dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof of'th'e .
cave came tumbling about my ears, but the posts.
seemed to crack terribly at the same time. This put .
me in a great amazement: and runningt'o the-ladder

 

and getting over the wall, I plainly knew it'wasi 5h} '

earthquake, the place I stood on sustaining threef'fiilp'
rible shocks in less than three minutes. ' Butfiudfi'
'4'- my terror when I saw the top of a great rock'r'o35 ' 1.1m AND anvswruass or

into the sea; I then expected the island would be
swallowed up every moment; and what made the
scene still more dreadful, was to see the sea thrown
into the most violent agitations and disorders by
this tremendous accident.

For my part, I expected every moment to be
swallowed up. At the moving of the earth, I was
as it were sea-sick, - and very much afiaid lest the
rock, under which was my fence and habitation.
should overwhelm me and it in a lasting tomb

It was not long after, when a horrible tempest arose
attendedat the same time with a hurricane of wind.

' Three hours did this storm continue, and in so violent
a manner as to tear the very trees up by the roots,
which was succeeded by abundance of rain. When the
tempestwas over. I went to my tentbutthe rain coming
on in a furious manner, I was obliged to take shelter 1n
the cave, where I was forced to cut a channel through
my fortification, to let the water out. It continued
raining all that nwht, and some time the next day.
Thesee accidents made me resolve, as soon as the
weather cleared up, to build me a little but in some
open place, walled round to defend me from wild
creatures and savages; not doubting, but at the next
earthquake, the mountain would fall on my habitation
and me, and swallow up all in its bowels.

April. 16--20. These days I spent in contriving
how and In what manner I should fix my place of

abode. Allthis while, I was under the most dreadful ' .

apprehensions. When I looked round my habits
tion every thing I found 1n its proper place. I had
several debates whether I should move or not , but
at length resolved to stay where I was, till I found
out a convenient place where I might pitch my tent.
April 22. When I began to put'9 my resolutions in -
practice, I was stopped for want of tools and instm
ments to work with. Most of my axes and hatchets
Were useless, occasioned by cutting the hard timber
that grew on the island. It took me up a full week
to make my grindstone of use to me; and at last I
found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by
help of a wheel and a string.

April 30. My bread falling short,I allowed my-
self but one biscuit a day. . .

May 1. As I walked along the sea-shore, I found
a barrel of gunpowder, and several pieces of the
wreck, which the sea had flung up. Having secured
these, I made to the ship, whose stern was torn off,
\ and washed a great distance ashore; but the rest lay

- in the sands. This, I suppose, was occasioned by
the earthquake. I now resolved to {keep my old/
place of abode: and also to get to the ship that day,
but found it impossible.

May 3. This day I went on board, and with my
saw, sawed off one of the beams, which kept her
quarter-deck. I then cleared the sand till flood.

May 4. I caught some fish, but they were not
wholesome. The same day, I also caught-a young
dolphin.

May 5. This day also I repaired to the wreck,
and. sawed another piece of timber; and when the
flood came, I made a float of three great planks,
- which were driven ashore by the tide.

May 6--9. These days, I brought all the iron'
bolts, opened the deck With the non crow, and car-
ried two planks to land, hamig. made a way into the
very middle of the wreck. '2;ng :7 '

May 10--13. All this time'- -I spent 1n bringing of
great quantities of 1ron and timber.

' May 15. Took with me two hatchet: en-fpurpose
to cut of some lead from the roll, but all iii vamfor
it lay too low under water. ' - .
May 24. To this day, I worked on the wreck,
and with great difficulty loosened some things so
much with the crow, that at the first blowing tide.
several casks floated out, and several of the. seamen's
chests; yet that day nothing came to land but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead which had some pork in
it. I continued working to the [5th of June: (except
necessary times for food and rest,) and had I known
how to build a boat, and had I known how to build a
boat, I had timber and planks enough; I had also a
hundred weight of sheet lead.

June 16. As I "as wandering towards the sea-
side, I found a large tortoise or turtle, being the first
I had seen on the island, though, as I afterwards
found, there were many on the other side of it.

June 17. This day I spent in cooking it, found
in her threescore egg rs, and her flesh the most savory
and pleasant I ever tasted in my life.

June 18 I staid within this day, there being a
continual rain; and it was somewhat more chilly and
could than usual.

June 19. Exceedingly ill, taken with a trembling
and shivering.

June 20. OAwake all night, my head racked with
pain, and feverish.

June 21. Sick unto death, and terrified with dis-
mal apprehensions of my condition. Frayed to God
more frequently, but very confusedly.

June 22. Something better, but stir. uneasy in
my mind.

June 23. Again relapsed much as before.

June 21. Mended :1 second time.

June 25. A violent ague for seven hours, cola
and hot fits, succeeded with faint s'weats.

June 26. Better, but very weak; yet I scrambled
out. shot a she goat. brought it home, and broiledv:- .

nonmson cartoon. . 39

some of it; I would .willingly have stewed it and
made some broth, but had no. pot.

June 27. All this day I was afflicted with an
ague'; thirsty, yet could not help myself to water ,-
prayed to God 1n these words: " Lord , in pity look
upon me, Lord have mercy upon me, have mercy
upon me!" After this I fell asleep, which, when I
awoke, I found had much refreshed me.

I rose up, in a pensive manner, being so thoughtful
that I could not go to sleep: and fearing the dread-
ful return of my distemper, it caused me to rememo
her, that the Brazilians use tobacco for almost all
diseases. I then went to my chest, 1n order to find
some, where heaven, no doubt, directed me to find our,
cure, both for soul and body , for there' I found;"one~
of the bibles, which, till this time, I had neither lei-2'
sure not inclination to look into , I took both the
tobacco and that out of my chest, and laid them on,
the table. Several experiments did I try with the
tobacco. First, I took a piece of leaf, and chewed
it; but it being very green and strong, almost stupi- .
fled me . next I steeped it in some rum an hour or
two, resolving when I went to bed, to take a dose
of it: and, in the third place, I burnt some over a
pan of fire, holding my nose over it as long as I could
endure it without suffication.

In the intervals of this operation, though my head,
was giddy and disturbed with the tobacco, I took up
the Bible to read. No sooner did I o pen, but there
appeared to m'e these words, " Call on me in the day
of trouble and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt
glorify me."

At first, this sentence made a very deep' impression
on my heart: but it soon More of? again when I con-'

' sidered the word " del1ver" was foreign to me. And
as the children of Israel said, when they were pro--.
mised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table in the
wilderness?" in the like manner I began to say, Can
God himself deliver me from this desolate Island?
However, the words would still return to my mind,
and afterwards made a greater impression upon me.
As it now was very late, and the tobacco had dozed
my head, I was inclined to sleep ; but before I would
lie down, I fell on my knees, and implored the pro-
mise that God had made to me in the holy Scriptures,
that, "if I called on him in the day of trouble, he

would deliver me."

With much difficulty I afterwards drank the rum,
wherein [had steeped the tobacco, which flying into
my head, threw me into such a profound sleep, that
it was three o'clock the next day before I aw0ke ; or
rather I believe, I slept two days, having certainly
lost a day in my account, and I could never tell any
other way.

When I got up, my spirits were lively and cheer-
ful; my stomach much better, being very hungry;
and. in short, no fit returned the next day, which was
the 29th, but I found myself much altered for the
better.

July 3. The fit quit left me, but very weak. In
this condition, I often thought of these words, "I
will deliver thee :" and while at sometimes I would
think of the impossibility of it, other thoughts would
reprehend me, for disregarding the deliverances I had
received even from the most forlorn and distressed
condition. I asked myself, what regard have I had
to God for his abundant mercies? "Have I done
my part? " He has delivered me, but I have not glo-
rified him :" as if I had said I had not owned and
been thankful for these as deliverances, and how could
I expect greater? So much did this sensibly touch
my heart, that I gave God thanks for my recovery
from sickness, in the most humble posture.
July 4. This morning I began seriously to ponder
on what is written in the New Testament, resolving
to read a chapter every morning and night, as long
as my thoughts would engage me.

As soon as I set about this work seriously, I found
my heart deeply affected with the impiety of my past
life. After this, I begged of God to assist me with
his holy Spirit in returning to my duty. One day,
in perusing the Scriptures, I came to these words,
" He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give re-
pentance, and to give remission' Immediately I
laid down the book, and, with 'up lifted hands to
heaven, loudly cried," O blessed Jeansfihou son 01
David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give
me repentance ;" And, now indeed, I prayed with a
true sense of my condition, and a more certain hope,
founded on the word of God. Now I had a different
sense of these words, " Call on me, and I will deliver
thee," that 1s from the dreadful load of guilt, which
oppressed my sinful soul, and not from a solitary
life: in a word, I came to this conclusion, that a de.
liverance from sin was a much greater blessing than
a deliverance from affliction.

To the 14th of July, _I walked about with my gun,
little and little at a time, having been reduced to the
greatest extremity of weakness. The applications
and experiments I used were perfectly new: neither
could I recommend them to any one's practice. For
though it carried off the fit, it very much weakened
me; gand I had frequently convulsions in my nerves
and limbs for some time From hence I learned,
that going abroad in rainy weather, especially when
it was attended with storms and hurricanes of wind,
was most pernicious to health. I had now been above
' ten months in the island, and as I had never seen

'- any of the human kind, I therefore accounted mysel.
. , 7' , 4s
as sole monarch; and as I grew better, havingse
cured my habitation to my mind, I resolved to make
a tour round my kingdom. 1n order to make new dis-
coveries.

The 15th of July, I began my journey. I first
went to the creek, where I had brought my rafts on
shore: and traielling farther, found the tide went
no higher than two miles up, where there was a little
brook of running water, on the 'bank of which were '
many pleasant savannahs, or meadows, smooth, plain
and covered with grass. On the rising parts, where
I supposed the water did not reach, I perceived as
great deal of tobacco growing to a very strong stalk.
Several other plants I likewise found, the virtue of
which I did not understand. I searched a long time
for the cassava root, which I knew the Indians in
that climate made their bread of; but all in vain.
There were several plants of aloes, though at that
time I knew not what they were: likewise I saw
several sugar-canes, but imperfect for want of culti-
vation. With these few discoveries, I came back
that night, and slept contentedly in my little castle.

The next day y, being the 16th, going the same
way, but farther than athe day before, I found the
country more adorned with woods and trees. Here
I perceived different fruits 1n great abundance. Mel-
ons in plenty lay on the ground, and clusters of
grapes, ripe and very rich, spread over the trees.
You may imagine I was glad of this discovery, yet
ate very sparingly, lest I should throw my sell" into a
flux or fever. The grapes I found of excellent use;
for when I dried them in the sun, which preserved.
them as dried raisins are kept, they proved very
wholesome and nourishing, and served me in those
seasons when no grapes were to be had.

The night dram mg on apace, I ascended up a tree,
and slept very comfortably, though it was the first
time I had slept out of my habitation. And when the
morning came, -I proceeded with great pleasure on
my way, travelling about four miles, as I imagined,
by the length of the valley. At the end of' this valley
I Came to an opening, where the countryseemed to
descend to the west; there I found a spring of fresh
water, proceeding out of the side of a hill,'with its
crystal streams running directly east. And indeed

here my senses were charmed with the'most beauti-

ful landscape nature could afford; for the country
appeared so flourishing, green anddelightful, that to

me it seemed like a planted garden. I then descended

on the, side of that delicious vale, whenI found abun-
dance'of cocoa, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but
very wild and barren at that time. As for the limes,
they 'were delightful and wholesome, the juice of
'which I afterwards used to mix in water, which made
it very cool and refreshing. And now I was resolved
to carry homeand lay up a store of grapes, limes,
and lemons, against the approaching wet season.
So laying them up in separate parcels, and then tak-
ing a few of each with me, I returned to my little
castle, after having spent three days in this journey.
Before I got home, the grapes were so braked that
they were utterly spoiled; the limes indeed were
good, but of those, I could bring only a few. '

July 19. Having prepared two bags, I returned
thither again, but to my great surprise, found all the
grapes spread about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there were wild

.beasts therea'outs. To prevent this happening
again, I gathered.a large quantity of the grapes, and
hang them upon the out branches of the tree, both
to: keep them 'unhurt, and that they might cure and
dryigthe sun; 'and having well loaded myself wrth
limes and lemons, I returned once more to my old
place of residence. '

And now, reflecting on the fruitfulness of this val-
ley, the pleasantncss of its situation, its security from
storms. and the delightfulness of the adjacent woods,-
I concluded I was settled in the worst part of the
country, and therefore Was thinking to remove m
habitation. '

But when I considered again, that though it was
pleasant, it was off from the sea side, where there
was a possibility, some time or other, a ship might
either be driven or sail by; and that to'inclose my-'
self among hills and woods, must certainly put an end
to my hopes of deliverance; Iresolved to let .my
castle remain where Providence had first placed it.
Yet, so delighted was I with this place, that I made
a little kind of bower, surroundingit with a double
hedge, as high as I could reach, well'staked and
filled with bulrushes: and having spent a great part
of the month of July, I think it wasthe first of Au-
gust before I began to enjoy my labour.

August 3. - Perceiving my grapes to be dry, I
took them from the trees, and they proved excellent
good raisins of the sun: the most of which I carried
to my cave: and happy for me I did so, by which]
saved the best part of my winter food.

August 14. This day it began to rain ; and though
I had made me a tent like the other, yet having no
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat to, I was obliged to return to
my old castle, the rain continued more or less every
day, till the middle of October; an! sometimes so
violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days. This season I found my family tovi'n- ,
crease: for one of my cats that had run away from
me, and which I thought had been dead, returnede . a '
if neutxsos causes. . 46
about August, with three kittens at her heels, like
herself; from these cats proceeded such numbers,
that I was forced to kill and destroy them as I would

do wild beasts or vermin.

To the 26th of this month, I could not stir out, it
raining incessantly; when beginning to want food,
I was compelled to venture twice, the first of which
times I shot a goat, and afterwards found a very
large tortoise. The manner of regulating my food
was thus: a bunch of raisins served me for at break-
fast; a piece of goat's flesh or turtle, boile for my
dinner, and two or three turtle eggs for my supper.
While the rain lasted, I daily worked two or three
hours at enlarging my cave, and, by degrees, werked
it on towards one side of the hill, and made a door,
or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall,
and so I came in and out this way. But afterl had
done this, I was troubled to see'myself thus exposed;
though I could not perceive any thing to fear, a goat
being the biggest creature I had seen upon this island.
September 30. Casting up. the notches on my
post, they amounted to 365. I concluded ..this to
be the anniversary of my landing; and therefore,
humbly prostrating myself on the ground, confessing
my sins, acknowledging God's righteous [judgments
upon me, and praying to Jesus Chris; to nave mercy
upon me, I fasted for twelve hours, till the going
down of the sun; and then eating a biscuit and'a
bunch of grapes, laid me on a bed, and with great
comfort, took my night's repose. Till this time, I
seldom had distinguished the Sabbath-day; but now

I made a long'r notch than ordinary, for the days of '

rest, and divided the weeks as well as I could. though
I found I had lost a day or two in my account. My
ink failing .soon after, I omitted in my daily memo-

randum, things ofa'n indifl'erent nature, and contented .-. -

wig!

5:

2L;

1; _(.

'1. g
2' egg;-
'.<<5.. -- at... T.46 use AND anvnx'runss OF .

myself to write down only the mosgifiremarkable
events of my life. The rainy and drghseasons ap-
peared now regular to me, and cxperie'rfiie taught me
how to provide for them; yet in one thighg I am go-
ing to relate, my experience very mucli failed,,me.
You may call to mind, what I have mentioned of
some barley and rice which I had save '; about
thirty stalks of the former, and twenty offt' ,e'latter;
and, at that time, the sun being in itssout'her ,posi-
tion, going from me, together; with the rains ' ,de
me conclude it a very proper season to sow 94%; '
cordingly I dug up a piece of ground, wi'
wooden spade, and dividing it in two parts, sowed
about tWo-thirds of my seed, preserving by me a
handful of each. And happy it was I did so; for no
rains failing, it was choked up, and never appeared
above the earth till the wet season came again, and
then part of it grew, as if it had been newly sown.
I was resolved still to make another trial; and
seeking for a moister piece of ground near my bower,
I there sowed the rest ofmy seed in February, which,
by having the rainy months of March and April to
water it, yielded a noble crop, and sprung up very
pleasantly. I had still saved part of the seed, not
daring to venture all; and by the time I found out
the proper seasons to sow it in, and that I might ex<<
pect every year, two seed-times and two harvests, ..
my stock amounted to above half a peck of each sort
of grain.

No sooner Were the rains over, but the stakes,
which I had cut from the trees, shot out like wil-
'lows, the first year after lopping their heads. I was
ignorant of the tree I cut them from; but they grew
so regularly beautiful, that they made a most lively
appearance, and so flourished in three years time, _
that I resolved to cut more of them ; and these soon ~t w.

f'itoiiixsorz cnuson. ' 47

w

- growing, made a glorious fence, 'as afterwards Ishall.
observe. -- 1"

And now I perceived that the seasons of the year
might gennerally be divided, not into summer and
winter, as in Europe, but into wet and dry seasons,

' as in this manner. v
From February 15, Rainy, sun coming near the

' To April 15, . Eg'tn'nor, 2 months.
'From April 15, A Dry, sun getting north from:
'To . 'August 15, the line, 4 months.
From August 15, _ Wet, the sun "being then come
To October 15, back," "months.

Fi-om October 15, Dry, sun running. south of
To { February 15, } the line 4 months.

The wet seasons would continue longer or shorter,
as the wind continued or ceased to blow. But hav--
ing found the ill consequences of being abroad in the
rain, I took care before hand- to furnish myself with
provisions: and, during the wet months, sat within
doors as much as possible. At this time, I contrived
to make many handy things that I wanted, though it

cost me much labour and pains, before I could ac-'

com plish them. The first I tried, was to make a
basket; but all the twigs I could get, proved so brittle,
that I could not then perform it. It now proved of
great use to me, that when a boy, I took great delight
in standing at a basket makers, in the same town
where my father lived, to view his men at work:
like Other boys, being curious to see the manner or
their working these things, and very oflicious to as-
sist, I perfectly learned the method of it, and wanted
nothing but the tools. And it coming into my mind,
, 1b" the twigs of that tree of which I made my stakes,

might be .as tough as a sallow, willow, or osi'ers grow .4

ing. hi En] land, I resolved to make an experiment

~onthvent t e next day to my country seat, and found48 111114 AND ADVEN'I'Unss ' or

some fit for my turn; and after cutting down--a quan-
tity with my hatchet, I dried them in my pale, and
when fit to work with, carried them to my cave,
where I employed myself in making several sorts ot
baskets, insomuch that I could put in whatsoever I
pleased. It 15 true, they were nopt cleverly made, yet
they served my turn upon all occasions.

But still I wanted two necessary things. I had no
cask to hold my liquor, except two almost full of
rum, a few bottles of an ordinary size, and some
square case bottles , neither had I a pot to boil any
thing 1n, only a large kettle, unfit to make broth, or
stew a bit of meat: I wanted likewise, at the begin-
ning of this dry season, a tobacco-pipe; but for this
Iafterwards found an expedient.

I kept myself employed 111 planting my second row
of stakes. But remembering that when I travelledu udp
to the brook, I had a mind to see the whole islan
I now resumed my intention, and taking my dog, gun,
hatchet, two biscuit cakes, a great bunch of raisins,
with a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
I began my journey. Having passed the vale where
my bower stood, I came within view. of the sea ly.
ing to the west; when, it being a clear day, I fairly
descried land, extending from the west to the south-
west. about 10 or 15 leagues, as Iconcluded; but
could not say whether it was an island or a conti-
nent, Neither could I tell what this place might be, '
only thought it was part of America, and where I
might have been in a miserable condition had I
landed. Again I considered, that if this was the
Spanish coast, certainly, one time or the other, I
should see some ships pass by , and if 1t was not, then'
it must be the savage coast, between the Spanish .
country and Brazil, which abounds with cannibals or
man eaters. -
_ aonmsox .cnuson. . 49

. _AS~I'I proceeded forward. I found this side of the
" island much more pleasant than mine; the 'fields'fra-
grant. adorned with sweet flowers and verdant grass,
. together with several very fine woods. There were
parrots in plenty, which made me long forone'to be
- my companion but it was with great difficulty I
.could knock one down with my stick; and I kept
him at home some years, before I could get him to
call me by name.
em the low grounds I found various sorts of hares; .
and. foxes. as I took them to be, but much different
from those in England. Several of. these 1 killed,"
but never ate them'; neither indeed had '1 any occa-
sion:' for abounding with goats, pigeons, turtle, and-
grapes; I could defy any market to furnish me a bet-
ter table. In this journey I did not travel above two
miles a day, because I took several turns and wind-
'- ings, to see what discoveries I could make, returning
weary enough to the place were I designed to rest
all night, which was either in a tree, or to a place
which I surrounded with stakes, that no wild crea-
ture might suddenly surprise me. When I came to
the sea-shore, I was amazed. to see the splendour of
it. Its strand was covered with shells of the most
' beautiful fish, and constantly abounding with innu-
merable turtles, and fowls of many kinds, which I
was ignorant of, except those called penguins. I
might have shot as many as I pleased, but was spar-
ing of my ammunition, rather choosing to kill a she-
goat, which I did with much difficulty, on account of
the flatness 'of the country. a , .
Now, though this journey produced the mostpless-

g ing satisfaction, yet my habitation was so much to

_ any liking, that I did not repine at my being seated

on- the worst part of the island. {I continued my ,_'-

. journey, travelling about twaelve miles further towards}50 use AM) Anvex'rcnns or

the east, where I set a great pile on the shore for a
mark, concluding that my next journey should bring
me to the other side of the island, east from my cas-
tle, and so round till I came to my post again. As I
had a constant view of the country, I thought I could
not miss my way; but scarce had I travelled three
miles, when I descended into a very large valley, so
surrounded with hills covered with wood, that having
no guide but the sun, and to add to my misfortune,
the weather proxing tel) hazy, I was obliged to re-
turn to my post by the sea- side, and so backawards the
same way I came. In this journey my dog surprised
a kid, and would have killed it had I not prevented
him. As I had often been thinking of getting a kid
or two. and so raising a brec l of tame goats to supply
me after my ammunition was SpCXZ., I took this op-
portunity of hen/inning: n .-. i. brim-1.5;: made a collar
for this little creature, with a string made of rope-
yarn, I brought it to my boner, and there inclosed
and left him , and having spent a month in this Jour-
ney, at length I returned to my old habitation.

Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction, when I re-
turned to my little castle, and 1eposed myself 1n my
hammock After my journey I rested m3 Selfa week.
which time I emplo3cd in making a cage for my
pretty poll. 1 now be gan to recollect the poor kid
I had left in the bower, and immediately went to
fetch it home. When I came there, I found the young
creature almost starved; I gave it some food, and
tied it as before; but the e was no occasion, for it
followed me like a dog- , and as I constantly fed it,
became so loving, gentle, and fond, that it com- .
menced to be one of- my domestics, and would never
leave me. _

The arainy season of the autumnal equinox being
now come, I kept the 30th of September in the most
solemn manner, as usual, it being the third year of
my abode in the island. I spent the whole day in

acknowledging God's mercies, in giving thanks for"

making this solitary life as agreeable, and less sinful,
than that of human society; and for the communica-
tion of his grace to my soul, in supporting, comfort-
ing, and encouraging me to depend upon his Provi-
dence, and hope for his eternal presence in the world

to come. -
Indeed, I often did consider how much more hap-

py I was, in this state of life, than in that accursed '

manner of living I formerly used; sometimes, how-
ever, when hunting, or viewing the country, the an-
guish of my son] would break' out upon me, and my
very heart would sink within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in; and how
[was a prisoner locked up within the eternalvhars
, and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness,
without hopes, and without redemption. In this con-
dition, I would often wring my hands, and weep like
a child: and even sometimes in the middle of' my
work, this fit would often take me; and then I would
sit down and sigh, looking on the ground for an hour
or two together, till such time as my grief got vent
in a flood of tears.

One morning, as I was fully employed in this man-
ner I opened my Bible, when immediately I fixed my
eyes on these words. " I will never leave thee, nor
forsake thee l" Surely, if God does not forsake me,
what matters it, since he can make me more happy
in this state of life, than if I enjoyed the greatest
splendour in the world? And whenever I opened or
shut the Bible, I blessed kind Providence, that direct-
ed my good friend in England to send it among my
goods without my order, and for assisting me to save
it from the power of the raging ocean. -52 LIFE AND anvaxrunss or

And now beginning my third year, my several
daily employments were-these: First, My duty"to
Heaven, and diligently reading the Holy Scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every' day; Secondly,
Seeking provisions with my gun, which commonly
took' me up, when it did not rain, three hours every
morning; Thirdly, The ordering, curing, preserving,
and cooking what I had killed or catched "for my
supply, which took me up a great part of the day;
for in the middle of the day, the sun being in its
height, it was so hot, that I could not stir Out; so
that I had but four hours in the evening to work in;
and then the want of tools, of assistance, and skill,
Wasted a great deal of time to little purpose, I was '
no less than two and forty days making a board, fit
for a long shelf, which two sawyers, with their tools
and saw-pit, Would have cut out of the same tree in
halt'a day. It was of a largetree, as my boardwas
to be brand. I was three days in cutting it down,
and two more in lopping of? the houghs, and reducing
it to a piece of timber. Thus I hacked and hewed
off each side, till it became light to move; then I
turned it, made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board from end to end, then turned it downward, cut-
ting the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides.

' Any body may judge my great labour and fatigue. in

such a piece of work; but this I went through with
patience, as also many other things that my circum-
stances made necessary for me to do.

The harvest months, November and December,
Were now at hand, in which I had the pleasing pros-
pect of a very good crop. But here I met with a
new misfortune, for the goats and hares, having tact>>, ,j-
ed of the sweetness of the blade, kept it so short that;
it had no strength to shoot up into stalk. To prevegtfeRomxsmv causos. 53

this, I enclosed it with'a hedge, and by day shot
some of its devourers; and my dog, which I had
tied to the field-gate, keeping barking all night, so
{fighten'ed these creatures that I got entirely rid of
t em.

But, no sooner did I' get rid of these, than other
enemies appeared; to wit, whole flocks of 'several
sorts of birds, who only waited till my back was
turned to ruin me. So much did this provoke me,
that I let fly, and killed three of the malefactors; and
afterward served them as they do notorious thieves
in England, hung them up in chains as a terror to
others. And, indeed, so good an efl'ect had this, that
they not only forsook the corn, but all that part of
the island, so long as these criminals hungthere.

My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of
December, which was my second harvest, I reaped it
with a scythe, made. of one of my broad swords. I
had no fatigue in cutting down my first crop it was
so ,slender. The ears I carried home in a basket, rub-
bing the grain out with my hands, instead of thresh-
ing it; and, when my harvest was ever, found my.
half peck of seed had produced nearly two bushels of
rice, and two bushels and a half of barley. And now
I plainly foresaw, that, by God's goodness, I should
be furnished with bread: but yet I was concerned,
because I knew not how to grind or make meal of my
corn, neither knew I how to bake it into bread. I
would not, however, 'taste any of the crop, but re
solved to preserve it against next season, and, in the

mean while, use my best endeavours to provide my-

self with other food.

But where were my labours to end? the want of a-
plough to turn up the Earth, or shovel to dig it, I con-
quered by making me a wooden spade. The want

ol'a barrow I supplied, by dragging 'over the com a.
rat .

u)
great bough of a tree. When it was growing, I was
forced to fence it: when ripe, to mow it, carry it
home, thresh it it, part it from the chaff, and save it.
And, after all, I wanted a mill to grind it, a sieve to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and
an oven to bake it. This set my brains to work, to
find some expedient for every one of these necessa-
ries, against the next harvest.

And now having more seed, my first care was to pre-
pare me moreland. I pitched upon two large flat pieces
of ground, near my castle, for that purpose. in which
I sowed my seed, and fenced it with a good hedge.
This took me up three months: by which time. the
wet season coming on, and the rain keeping me within
doors. I found several occasions to employ myself,
and, while at work, used to divert myself with talking
to my parrot, teaching him to know and speak his
own name Poll, the first welcome word I ever heard
spoken in the island. I had been along time contriv-
ing how to make earthen vesseIS, which I wanted ex-
tremely; and when [considered the heat of the climate,
I did not doubt but if I could find any such clay, I might
botch up a pot, strong enough, when dried in the sun,
to bear handling, and to hold any thing that was dry,
as corn, meal, and other things.

To be short, the clay I found; but it would occa-
sion the most serious person to smile, to see what
awkward ways I took, and what ugly misshapen things
I made; how many either fell out or cracked by the

. violent heat of the sun, and fell in pieces when they
were removed, so that I think it was two months be-
fore I could perfect any thing; and even then
but two clumsy things in imitation of earthen jars.
These, however, I very gently placed in wicker bas-
kets, made on purpose for them, and between the pot
and the baskets, stuffed it full of rice and barley straw;nonmson 0311303. 55

and these I presumed would hold my dried corn, and
perhaps the meal, when the Corn was bruised. As
for the smaller things, I made them with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins. the sun baking them very hard.

Yet still I wanted one thing absolutely necessary,
and that was an earthen pot, not only to hold any
liquid, but also to bear the fire, which none of these
could do. It once happened that as I was put ing-
out my fire, I found therein a broken piece of one of
my vessels, burnt hard as a rock, and red red as a tile.
This made me think of burning some pots; and hav-
ing no notion of a kiln, or of glazing them with lead,
I fixed three large pipkins, and two or three pots in
a pile one upon another. The fire I piled round the
the outside, and dry wood on the top, till I saw the
pots in the inside red hot, and found that they did
not crack at all: and when I perceived them perfect
ly red, I let them stand in the fire about five or six
hours, till the clay melted by the extremity of the

heat, and would have run to glass had I suffered it ;'

upon which, I slacked my fire by degrees, till the
redness abated; and watching them till the morning,
I found I had three very good pipkins, and two
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn as I
could desire.

The first use to which I turned my pipkins, was to
make some salt, which I had long wanted. For this
purpose, I filled them with sea-when and kept it
slowly boiling over the fire, till the whole of the wa-
ter had boiled away in steam, leaving, at the bottom
of the vessel, a thin crust of salt, which I found very
good for giving a relish to my food. '

The next concern I- had, was to get me'a stone- ;

mortar to beat some corn in, instead of a mill to grind
it. Here, indeed, I was at a great loss. as not being
fit for a stone-cutter; and many days I spent to find
out a great stone big enough to cut hollow and make
fit for a m01ta1 and st1ong enough to bear the weight
of a pestle, that would break the com without filling
it with sand. But all the stones ofthe island being of
a mouldering nature, rendered my search fruitless;
and then I resolved to look out a-great block of hard
wood; which having found, I {01 med it by my axe
and hammer, and then, with infinite labour, made a
hollow 111 it, just as the Indians of B1azil make their
canoes. When I had finished this I made a great
pestle of iron-wood, and then laid them up against
my succeeding harvest.

My next business was to make me a sieve, to sift
my meal and part it from the bran and husk. Having
no fine thin canvass to search the meal through, I
could not tell what to do. What linen I had was re-
duced to rags; I had goat's hair enough, but neither
tools to 'work it, nor did I know how to spin it. At
length, I rememberedI had some neck-cloths of ca-
lico or muslin of the sailors, which I had brought out
of the ship, and nith these, I made three small sieves
proper enough for the work.

I come now to cons der the baking part. The want
of an oven I supplied, by making some e'u then pans
very broad, but not deep. 'When I had a mind to
bake, I made a great tire upon my hearth, the tiles of
which I had made myself, and \then the wood was
burnt into live coals, I spxead them 111 er it, till it be-
' came very hot; then 511 eepimr them a11ay,I set down
my loaves, and whelmiug do" n the ('31 then pots upon
them, drew the ashes and coals all mound the outside
of the pots to conti 111e ti 1e i. eat; end in this manner
I baked my barley 111.11 es, as well as it I had been a
complete pastrycook, and also made of the rice. se-

veral cakes and puddings.
It IS no wonder that all these things took me up the
bent part of a year, since what intermediate time I had,
was bestowed in managing my new harvest and hue-
bandry; for in the proper season I reaped my corn,
carried it home and laid it up in the ear, in m large
baskets. till I had time to rub, instead of thrashing it.
And now indeed, my corn increased so much, that it
produced me twenty bushels of barley, and as much
of rice, that I not only began to use it freely, but was
thinking how to enlarge my barns, and resolved to
' new as much at a time as would be sufficient for a
whole year

All this while, the prospect of land, which I had
seen from the other side of the island, ran in my
mind. I still meditated a deliverance from this place,
though the fear of greater misfortunes might have
deterred me from it. For allowing that I had attain-
ed that place, I ran the hazard of being killed and
eaten by the devouring cannibals ; and if theywere not
so, yet I might be slain, as other Europeans had been,
who fell into their hands. Notwithstanding all this,
my thoughts ran continually upon that shore. I now
wished for the long boat with the shoulder of mutton
sail. I went to the ship's boat, that had been cast a
gneat way on the shore in the late storm. She was
removed but a little; and her bottom being' turned
up by the impetuosity and surge of the waves and
wind, I fell to work with all the strength I had, and
with levers and rollers I had cut from the wood, to
turn her, and repair the damages she had sustained.
This work took me up three or four weeks. when
finding mylittle strength all in vain, I fell to under-
mining it by digging away the sand, and so. to make
it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it in the fall. But after this was done, I was
still unable to stir it up, or to get under it, much less
to move it forward towards the water, and so I was
forced to give it over.

This disappointment, however, did not frighten me.
Irbegan to think, whether it was not possible for me
to make a canoe or Perigua, such as the Indians make
of the trunk ofa tree. But here I lay under particu-
lar inconveniences; want of- tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it into the water when it was
made. However, to work I went upon it, stopping
all the inquiries I could make with this very simple
answer I made to myself, let's first make it, I'll war-
rant .I'll find some Way or other to get it along when
it is done.

I first cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a space,
and then parted into branches. Twenty days was I
hacking and hewing it at the bottom, fourteen more in
cutting off the branches and limbs, and a whole month
in shaping it like the bottom ofa boat. As for the inside,
I was three weeks with a mallet and chisel, clearing
it in such a manner, as that it was big enough to carry
26 men, much bigger than any cancel ever saw in
my life, and consequently suilicient to transport me

and all my effects to that wished for shore I so ar-
dently desired.

Nothing remained now, but indeed the greatest
difficulty, to getit into the water, it lying about 100
yards from it. To remedy the first inconvenience,
which was a rising hill between the boat and the
creek, with wonderful pains and labour I dug into
the surface of the earth, and made a declivity. But
when this was done, all the strength I had was as
insuflicient to more it, as it was when I first made the
attempt. I then proceeded to measure the distancenoeixsox causon. E9

of ground, resolving to make a canal, in order to
bring the water to the canoe, since I could not bring
the canoe to the water. But as this seemed to be
impracticable to myself alone under the space of
eleven or twelve years, it brought me into some sort
of consideration; so that I concluded this also to be
impossible, and the attempt vain. I now saw, and
not before, what stupidity it is to begin work before
we reckon its costs, or judge rightly our own abilities
to go through with its performance.

In the height of this work my fourth year expired
from the time I was cast on this island. . At this time
I did not forget my anniversary; but kept it with ra-
ther greater devotion than before. For now my
hopes being frustrated, I looked upon this world as a
thing I had nothing to do with; and very well might
I say, as father Abraham said unto Dives, " Between
me and thee. there is a gulf fixed." And indeed I
was separated from its wickedness too,having neither
the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride
of life; I had nothing to covet, being lord, king, and
emperor over the whole country I had in possession,
without dispute and Without control: I had load-
ings of corn, plenty of turtles, timber in abundance,
and grapes above measure. What was all the rest
to me? The money I had lay by me as despicable
dross, which I would freely have given for a gross of
tobacco pipes or a hand-mill to grind my corn: in a
word, the nature and experience of these things dic-
tated to me this just reflection. That the good things
of this world are no further good to us than as they
are for our use; and that whatever we may heap
up, we can but enjoy as much as we use and no
more.

These thoughts rendered my mind more easy than
usual. Every time I sat down to meat, I did eat with60 use an>> anvsnrunxs or

thankfulness, admiring the providential band of God.
who, in this wildernes's had spread a table to me.
And now I considered what I enjoyed, rather than
what I wanted, compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it should be; how I should
have done, ifl had got nothing out of the ship; that
I must have perished before I had caught fish or tur'
tles; or lived, had I found them, like a mere savage.
by eating them raw, and pulling them to pieces with
my claws, like a beast. I next compared my station
to that which I deserved; how undutiful I had been
to my parents; how destitute of the fear of God;
how void of every thing that was good; and how
ungrateful for those abundant mercies I had received
from heaven, being fed, as it were by a miracle, even
as great as Elijah's being fed by ravens; and cast on
a place where there are no venomous creatures to
poison or devour me; in short, making God's tender
mercies matter of great consolation, I relinquished
all sadness, and gave way to contentment.

As long as my ink continued, which with water I
made last as long as I could, 'I used to minute down
the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened.

The next thing that wasted after my ink, was the
biscuit, which I had brought out of the ship; and
though I allowed myself but one cake a day for about
a twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of bread for
nearly a year, before I got any corn of my own.

In the next place, my clothes began to decay, and
my linen had been gone long before. However, I
had preserved about three dozen of the sailor's che-
quered shirts which proved a great refreshment to
me, when the violent beams of the sun would not
under me to bear any of the seamen's heavy watch-
eoa'ts; which made me turn tailor, and. after a misc>>nonmsos on uses. 6!

able botching manner, convert them to jackets. To
preserve my head, I made a cap of goatskins, with
the hair outwards to keep out the rain ; which indeed
served me so well, that afterward I made a waist-
coat and open-kneed breeches of the same: and then
I contrived a sort of umbrella, covering it with skins,
which not only kept out the heat of the sun, but the
rain also. Thus being easy and settled-in my mind,
my chief happiness was to converse with God, in
most heavenly and comfortable ejaculations.

For five years after this, I cannot say any extraordi-
nary thing occurred to me. My chief employment was
to cure my raisins, and plant my barley and rice, of
both which I had a year's provision before-hand. But
though I was disappointed in my first canoe, I made
it, at intermediate times, my business to make a se-
cond of much inferior size: and it was two years be-
fore I had finished it. But as I perceived it would
in no wise answer my design of sailing to the other
shore, my thoughts were confined to take a tour
round the island, to see what further discoveries I
could make. To this intent, after having moved her
to the water, and tried how she would sail, I fitted
up a little mast to my boat, and made a sail of the
ship's sails that lay by me. I then made lockers or
boxes at the end of it to put in necessaries, prevision,
and ammunition, which would preserve them dry
either from the rain, or the spray of the sea; and, in
the inside of the boat, I cut me a long hollow place
to lay my gun, and to keep it dry, made a 'cover for
it. My umbrella, I fixed in a step in the stern, like
amast, to keep the heat of the sun ofi' me. And now
resolving to see the circumference of my little king-
dom, I victualled my ship for the voyage, 'putting' in
two dozen of my barley bread loaves, and an earthen
pot full' of parched rice, aelittle bottle of rum. half a
goat, powder and shot, and two watch-coats. It was
the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or captivity, that I set out on this voyage; which
was much longer than I expected, being obliged to
put farther out, by reason of the rocks that lay a
great way in the sea.

And indeed so much did these rocks surprise me,
that I was for putting back, fearing that if I ventured
farther, it would be out of my power to return: in
this uncertainty I came to anchor just of? the shore,
to which I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and
then climbing up a hill, which overlooked that point,
I saw the lull extent of it, and so resolved to run all
hazards.

In this prospect from the bill, I perceived a violent
current running to the east, coming very close to the
point, which I the more carefully observed, thinking
it dangerous. and that when I came to it, I might be
driven into the sea by its force, and not able to re-
turn to the island : and certainly it must have been
so, had I not made this observation; for on the other
side was alike current, with this difference, that it
set off at a greater distance; and I perceived there
was a strong eddy under the land; so that my chief
business was to work out of the first current, and
conveniently get into the eddy. Two days I staid
here, the wind blowing very briskly ea'st south-east,
which beimr contrary to the current, leaves a great
breach of the sea upon the point; so it was neither
fit for me to keep too near the shore, on account of
the breach; nor stand at too gxeat a distance for {eat
of the stteams. 'l' hat night the wind abating, it grew
so calm, that I ventured, out . and here I may be a
monument to all rash and ignorant pilots; for I was
no sooner come to the point, and not above the boat's
length from shore, but I was got into deep water.
with a current like a mill-race, which drove my boat
along so violently, that it was impossible for me to

keep near the edge of it, for it forced me more and -

more out from the eddy to theleft of me; and all I
could do with my paddles was useless, there being
no wind to help me. .

Now I began to look upon myself as quite lost,
since, as the current ran on both sides of the island,
I was very certain they must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want, in the sea.
after what provision I had was spent, or before, if a
storm should happen to arise.

Who can conceive the present anguish of my
mind at this calamity? with longing eye did I look
upon my little kingdom. and thought the island the
pleasantest place in the universe. Happy, thrice
happy desert, said I, shall I never see thee more!
Wretched creature! whither am I going? Why did I
murmur at my lonesome condition, when'now I would

've the whole wide world to be thither again? \Vhile

was thus complaining, I found myself to be driven
about two leagues into the sea; however, I laboured
till my strength was far spent, to keep my boat as
far north as I possibly could, to that side of the cur-
rent where the eddy lay. About noon I perceived
a little breeze of wind, spring up from the south
south-east, which overjoyed my heart; and I was
still more elated, when in about half an hour, it blew
a gentle fine gale. . Had any thick weather' sprung
up, I had been lost another way: for having no com-
pass on board, I should never have found the way to
steer towards the island, if once it had disappeared;
but it proving the contrary, I set up my mast again,
spread my sail and stood away northward, as much
as I could. to get rid of the current. And no sooner
did the boat begin to stretch away, but I perceived,

, Lia64 LIFE AND 1111111>> 1111111115 or

by the clearness of the water, a change of the cur-
rent was near; for, where it was strong, the water
was foul ; and where it was clear the current abated.

Those who have been in the like calamities with
my own, may guess my present excess of joy, how
heartily I ran my boat in the stream of this eddv,
and how Joy fully I spread my sail to the refieshing
wind, standing cheertu-ll} before it, with a smart tide
under foot. By the assistance of this eddy, I was
carried above a league home again, when, being in"
the 11'ake of the island, betwixt the two currents, I
found the water to be in a sort of a stand. About
four o'clock in the afternoon, I reached 11ithin a
league of the island, and perceived the points of the
rock, which caused this disaster, stretching out, as I
observed before, to the south11-a1',d which th1o1ving
off the current more southerl3, had occasioned ano-
ther eddv to the north. But having a fair biisk gale,
I stretched across this edd1, andD in an hour came
within a mile of the shore, where I soon landed to
my unspeakable comfor;t and after an humble pros-
tration, thanking God for 111v deliverance, with a re-
solution to layba ll thoughts of escaping aside, I
brought my boat safe to a l'.ttle cove, ancd laid me
down to take a 11 elcome repose. W hen I awoke, I
was considering how I might get my boat home;
and coasting along the shore I came to a good bay,
which ran up to a 1'ivulct or brook, where. finding a.
harbour, I stowed her as sa fc as if she had been 1n 3
dry dock, made on purpose for her.

I now perccimd myself not far from the place
where before I had travelled on foot: so taking no-
thi .1g with me, :'cept mv gun and umbrella, I boegan
mv journevz and in the e1ening came to my bower,
where I again laid me down to rest. I had not slept
long.bcf01e I awakened 111 gtcat surprise, bya strange

U
voice that called me several times, " Robin, Robin,
Robinson Crusoe, poor Robin! Where are On,
Robinson Crusoe? Where are you? Where ave
you been?

So fast was I asleep, that at first I did not awake
thoroughly; but half asleep, and half awake, I
thought I dreamed that some body spoke to me. But
as the voice repeated, "Robinson Crusoe," several
times, bein'g terribly frightened, I started up in the
Antmost confusion; and, no sooner were my eyes
fully open, but I beheld my pretty poll sitting on the
top of the hedge, and soon knew that it was he that
called me; for just in such bewailing language, I
used to talk and teach him; which he so exactly
learned, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his
bill close to my face, and cry, " poor Robinson Cru-
soe, where are you? where have you been? how
came you here '2" and such like prattle I had cou-
stantly taught him. But even though I knew it to
be the parrot, it was a great time before I could ad-
just myself: being amazed how the creature got
thither, and that he should fix about that place, and
no where else. But now, being assured it could be
no other than my honest "Poll," my wonder ceased,
and reaching out my hand, and calling "Poll," the
creature came to me familiarly, and perched upon
my thumb, as he was wont, constantly prating to
me with "poor Robinson Crusoe, and how did I
come here, and where had I been?" as if the bird
was overjoyed to see me, and so I took him home
along with me. I was now pretty well cured- of
rambling to sea; yet I could wish my boat, which
had cost me so much trouble and pains, on this side
the island once more, but this, indeed was impracti-

o cable. I therefore began to lead a very retired life,
living nearly 'a twelt'emonth in a very contented-
. 6. s-
manner, wantingfor nothing but conversation. As to
mechanic 'labom's, which my necessities obliged me
to, I fancied I could, upon occasion, make a tolerable
carpenter, were the poor tools I had to Work withal,
but good. Besides, as I improved. in my earthen-
ware, I contrived to make them with a wheel, which
I found much easier and better, making my work
shapely, which before was rude and ugly; But, I
think, I never was so much elevated with my own
performance or project as when abie to make a to";
aacco-pipe, which, though it proved an awkward'
clumsy thing, yet it was very sound, and carried the
smoke perfectly well, to my great satisfaction.

I also improved my wicker ware, made me abun-
dance of necessary baskets, which, though not very
handsome, were very handy and convenient to fetch
things home in, as also for holding my stores, barley,
rice, and other provisions. ' .

My powder beginning to fail, made me examine ,
after what manner I should kill the goats or birds,
to live on, after it was all gone. Upon which I con-
trived many ways to ensuare the goats, and see if I
could catch them alive, particularly a she-goat with
young.

At last I had my desire; for, making pit-falls and
traps, baited with barley and rice, I found, one morn-
ing, in one of them, an old he goat, and in the other,
three kids, one male, and two females.

So boisterous was the old one, that I could not
bring him away. But I forgot the old proverb,
" That hunger will tame a lion :" for had I kept him
three or four days without provisions, and then given
him some water with a little corn. he would-have
been as tame as a young kid. The other creatures
I bound with strings together; but I had great diffi-
culty, before I could bring them to my habitation.

\l

.11103133011" 011113011. ' 07

It was some time before they would t'eed; but, throw-
ing them sweet corn, it so much tempted them, that
they began to be tamer. From hence I concluded,
that it I designed to furnish rm selfwith goat's flesh.
when my ammunition "as spent, the tamely brec'd-
111g them up, like a flock of sheep, about my settle-
ment, was the only method I could take. I concluded
also that I must scparate the wild from the tame, or
else they would always run wild as they grew up;
and the best 11' ay for this was, to have some enclosed
piece of ground, well fenced, either with a hedge or
pale, to keep them so efl'ectually y, that those within
might not break out, nor those without break in.
Su'ch an undertaking was very great for one pair of
hands; but as them was an absolute necessity for
doing it, my first care 11 as to find a convenient pie'ce
of ground, where there was likely to be herbage for
them to eat, water to drink, and cover to keep them
from the sun.

Here again, I gave another instance of my iguo--
rance and inexperience, pitching upon a piece of

meadow land so large, that had I enclosed it, 'the '

hedge or pale must have been at least two miles
about. This thought came into my head, after I had

,carried it on, I believed, about fifty y.ards ' I there-

fore altered my scheme, and resolved to enclose a
piece of g1 ound about 150 yards' in length, and 100
in breadth, L11 <<re enough for as many as would main-
tain me, till such time as my flock increased, and
then I could add more ground. I now vigorously
prosecuted my WOrk, and it took me about three
months in hedging the first piece; in which timeI
tethered the three kids 1n the best part of it; feeding

them as near me as possible, to make them fam'liatt -

and, indeed, I very often would carry some ears, 9';

barley, or a handful of rice,a and feed them out!" 4

' . i i 1*.
my hand: by which they grew so tame, that when
my enclosurewas finished. and I had let them loose,
they would run after me for a handful of corn. This
indeed answered my end : and in a year and a half's
time, I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all:
and in two years after, they amounted to forty-three,
besides what I had taken and killed for my sustenance.

After which, I enclosed five several pieces 0]
ground to feed them in, with pens to drive them into,
that I might take them as I had occasion.

In this project I likewise fonnd additional bless-
ings; for I not only had plenty of goat's flesh, but
milk too, which in the beginning, I did not so much

as think of. And, indeed, though I had never milked '

a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese
1.. do, yet, after some essays and miscarriages, I made
me both, and never afterwards wanted.

How mercifully can the Almighty comfort his
creatures, even in the midst of their greatest calami-
ties! How can he sweeten the bitterest evils, and
give us reason to magnify him in dungeons and pris-
ons; what a bounteous table was here spread 1n the

wilderness for me, where I expected nothing at first,
but to perish for hunger.

Certainly any one would have smiled to see me at
dinner. There sat my my al majesty, an absolute
prince and 1uler of my kingdom, attended by my du-
tiful subjects, whom, if I pleased, I could either hang,
draw, quarter, give them liberty, or take it away.
When I dined, I seemed a king. eating alone, none
daring to presume to do so till I had done. Poll, as
if he had been my principal coul't. Javourite, was the
only person permitted to talk with me: My old, but
faithful dog, now grown exceedingly crazy, continu-
ally sat on my right hand; while mf' two cats sat on
each side of the table, expecting a bit from my hand,
as a principal mark of my royal favour. These were
not the cats I had brought from the ship, they had
been dead long before, and interred near my habita-
tion, by my own hand, but a couple oftheir young
I had made tame; the rest ran wild into the Woods,
and in time grew so im-pudeut, as to return and plun-
der me of my stores, till such time as I shot a great
many; and the rest left me without troubling me any
more. In this plentiful manner did I live, wanting
for nothing but conversation. One thing indeed con-
cerned me, the want of my boat; I knew not which '
way to get her round the island. One time I resolved
to go along the shore by land to her; but had any
one at home met such a figure, it would either have
afl'righted him, or made him burst into laughter; nay, '
I could not but smile myself at my habit, which .I
think, in this place, will be very pioper to describe.
The cap I wore upon my head, was great, high.
and shapeless, made of a goat's skin, with a flap, 0':
pent-house hanging down behind, not only to keep ,.
the sun from me, but to shoot the rain of? from fun-
ning into my neck, nothing being more pernicious 1
than the rain falling upon the flesh, -in these climates.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, whose hair hung'
down ,such a length on each side, that it reached
down to the calves of my legs. As for shoes and
stockings, I had none, but made a resemblance of
Something, I know not what to call them ; they were
made like buskins, and laced on the sides like spatter-
dashes, barbarously shaped, like the rest of my habit.
I had a broad belt of goat's skin dried, girt round-me
with a couple of thongs, instead of buckles; on each
'of which, to supply the deficiency of sword and dag-
- ger, hung my hatchet and saw. I had another belt,
not to broad, yet fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at theend of it, under

V
my left arm, hung two pouches, made of goat's skin,
to hold my powder and shot. My basket I carried
on by back, and my gun on my shoulder; and over
my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella,
which however, next to my gun, was the most neces-
sary thing about me. As for my face, the colour
was not so swarthy as the Mulattoes, or as might
have been expected, from one who took so little care
of it, In a climate within nine or ten degrees of the
line. At one time my beard grew so long that it
hung down above a quarter of a yard; but as I had
both razors and scissors in store, I cut it all 06', and
suffered none to grow, excepta larg re pair of Maho-
metan whiskers, the like of which I had seen worn
by some Turks at Salee, not long enbugh indeed to
hang a hat upon,but of such a monstrous mm, as would
have amazed any in England to have seen.

But all this It as of no consequence here, there be-
ing none to observe my behaviour or habit. And so,
without fear and without control, I proceeded on my
journey, the prosecution of which, took me up five or
six days. I travelled along the sea shore, directly
to the place where I first brought my boat to an an-
chor, to get upon the rocks, ' but now having no boat
to take care of, I went over land a nearer we to the
same height that I was before upon; when ookin
forward to the point of the rock which lay out, and
which I was forced to double with my boat, I was
amazed to see the sea so smooth and quiet, there
being no rippling motion, nor current, any more
than In other places. And now I was convinced,
that by observing the ebb and flow of the tide, I
might easily bring my boat round the island again.
But when I began to think of putting it in practice,
the remembrance of the late danger struck me with
such horror, that I took another resolution, though
more laborious; and this ~wan to make a second ea-
noe, and so have one for one side of the island, and
one for the other. . ' .

I had now two plantations in the island; the first

my little fortification, fort, or castle, with .many large .

and spacious improvements, for by this time, I had
enlarged the cave behind me with several little caves,
one within another, to hold my baskets, corn, and
straw. The piles with which I made my wall, were
grown so lofty and great, as obscured my habitation
And near this commodious and pleasant" settlement,
lay my well-cultivated and improved corn fields,
which kindly yielded me their fruits in their proper
season. My second plantation was that near my
country seat, or little bower, where my grapes flour-
ished, and where,having planted my stakes, I made en-
closures for my goats. so strongly fortified by labour
and time, that it was much stronger than a wall, and,
consequently, impossible for them to break through.
As for my bower itself, I kept it constantly in repair,
and cut the trees in such a manner, asmade them
grow wild, and form a most delightful shade. In the cen-

tre of this, stood my tent, thus erected. I had driven '

four piles in the ground, spreading over it a piece of
the ship's sail, beneath which, I made me a sort of
couch, With the skins of the Creatures I had slain, and
other things; and having laid thereon one of the
sailor'sblankets, which I had saved from the wreck
. of the ship, and covering myself with a great watch-
eoat, I took up this place for my country retreat. .
Very frequently, from this settlement, did I use to
visit my boat, and keep her in very good order. And

sometimes would I venture in her a cast or- two from "

shore, but no farther. But now I entreat your at.-
tention, whilst I proceed to inform you of anew,
but most surprising scene of life which here befel me.

. .31." .
You may easily suppose, that, after having been
here so long, nothing could be more amazing, than
to see a huinan creature. One day it happened, that
going to my boat, I saw the print of a man's naked
foot on the shore, very evident on the sand, as the
toes, heels, and every part of it. Had I seen a
monster of the most frightful shape, Icoul i not have
been more confounded.1'1SS_1' wili' 1111: cars gave the
strictest attention. I cast 1111' e) as a1 ound but could
satisfy neither the one nor the other, [proceeded
alternately to every pa1t of the show, but with equal
efi'ect , neither could I see any other mark, though
the sand about it was as susceptable to take impres-
sion as that which was so plainly stamped. 1. has
struck with confusion an 11' 11111-11113 I retmned to my
habitation, frightened at 111-011' he 1:1 and tree, taking
every thing for men; and possessed 11ith the wildest
idea! That night my ('1 es 11c1er closed. I formed
nothing but the most dismal imaginations. In a
word, call my 1eli1_rions hopes vanished, as though
I thought God woull not now protect me by his
power, owho had 11'onde1 t'ullv prose-1 1ed me so lontr.

What various ohai as of e1ents ar ethere' 111 the life
of man! How changeable are our att'cctions, accmd-
ing to different circumstances! \'v'e love to-day,
what we hate to- -morrow; we shun one hour, what
we seek the next. '1'1l115 was evident in me in the
most conspicuous manner; for I, who had so much
before lamented my condition, in beintr banished
from all human kind, was now 1031111 to expire, when
I considered that a man had set l.1s foot on this deso-
late island. But '11'l'1 3-11 I considered m1 station of
life, decreed hv the infinitely nine and <<rm-1d provi-
dence of God, that I ought not to dispute my Crea-
tor's sovereigntv, who had an undoubted right to
govern and dispose of his creatures as he thinks cone
venient; and that his justice and mercy could either
punish or deliver me, I say, when I considered all
this, I comfortably found it my duty to trust sincerely
in him, pray a'rdently to him, and humbly resign
myself to his divine will.

One morning, lying on my bed, these words of the
sacred writings, came into my mind, " Call upon me
in the day of trouble. and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me." Upon this sentence, rising
more cheerfully from my bed, I offered up my pray-
ers in the most devout manner; and when I had
done, taking up my Bible to read, these Words ap-
peared first in my sight, "Wait on the Lord, and be
of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy heart:
Wait, I say, on the Lord." Such 'divine comfort did
this give me, as to remove all cause of sadness upon
that occasion.

Thus, after aworld of apprehensions and fears for
three days and nights, I at last ventured out of my
castle, and milked my goats, one of which was almost
spoiled for want of it. I next (though in great fear,)
visited my bower, and milked my flocks there also;
when growing bolder, I went down to the shore
again, and measuring the print of the foot to mine, to
see perhaps whether I myself had not occasioned
that mark, I found it much superior in largeness;
and so returned home, absolutely convinced, that
either some men had been ashore, or that the island
must be inhabited ; and therefore that I might be sur-
prised before I was aware.

I now began to think of providing for my security,
and resolved in my mind many difi'erent schemes for
that purpose. I first proposed to cut down my en-
closures, and turn my tame cattle wild into the woods,
that the enemy might not find them, and frequent the
island in hopes of killing the/ same. Secondly, I was

7
for digging up my corn-fields for the very same rea-
son. And, lastly. I conclu- led to demolish my bower.
lest, seeimr 11 place of human contrivance, they. might
come farther, and (ind out and attack me in my
castle.

Sleep was an utter stranger to my eyes that night,
yet nature, spent and tired, submitted to a silent re-
pose the next morning ,and then' toining reason with
fear, I considered, that this deiighttul laand pleasant
island might not be so entirely forsaken as I might
think; but that t: It) inhabitants f1om the other shore
might sail, either with desi m or t'mm necessity, by
cross winds; and, it the latter citeumstance, _I had
reason to believe the_1_ would depart the first oppor-
tunity . However, m_'-' fear made me think ofa place
of retreat upon an 1111 111211. I 11011' repented thatlhad
made my door to come out beyond my fortification;
to remedy which, I resolved to make me a second
one: I fell to 1Io1h, theretore. and drove betwixt that
double row of tre1s, 1111.011 I planted above twelve
years before, acre-1:11 stron r p iles, tliiehening'tt with
pieces of timber and old cables, and strengthening the
foot of it with earth which I dug out of my cave; I
also made me seven holes, wherein I planted mv mus-
kets line cannon, tilting them into frames resembling
carriages. 'lhis beintr finished with indefatigable
industry, for a great way etery 11he1e, I planted
sticks of osiers like. 11 11 00d, 11h. )nt twenty thousand
of them, leaving' a large space between them and my
wall that I min" 1t hate room to see an enemy, and
that they migrht not be sheltered among the young
trees, if they offered 1.) apvnoach the outer walh
And indeed, scarce tn'o yeazs had passed over my
head. when there appearel a lmel; s11ady grove,
and 1n six it became a thick wood perfectly impassa-
ble For my safety I left no avenue to go in or out;
instead of which, I set .two lddders, one to a part of

the rock which was low, and then broke. in, leaving.
room to place another ladder upon that, so that when

I took those down,'it n45 impossible for any man to
descend without hurting himself; and if' they had,
they would still be at the outside of my outer wall.
But, while I took all these measures of human pru-
dence for my own preservation, I was not altogether
unmindful of other afl'airs. To preserve my stock of
tamegoats, that the, enemy should not take all at
once, I' looked out for the most retired part of the
island, which was' the place where I had lost myself
before mentioned, and there findinga clear piece of
land, containing three acres, surrounded with thick
woods, I wrought so hard, that in less than a month's
time, I fenced it so well round, that my flocks were
very well secured in it, and I put therein two he
goats, and ten she ones.

All this labour was occasioned purely by fearful
apprehensions, on account of seeing the print of a
man's foot. And not contentediyet with what I had
done, Isearched for another place to" ards the west
part of the island, where I might also retain another
flock. Then wandering on this errand more to the
west of the island than ever I had yet done, and
casting my eyes towards the sea, methought l per-_
ceived a boat at a great distance; but could not pos-
sibly tell what it was for want of my spy-glass. I
considered then, it was no strange thing to see the
print of a man's foot; and concluding them canni-
bals, blessed God for being cast on the other side of
the island, Where none of the savages, as I thought
ever came. But when I came down the hill to the
shore, which was the south-west point oi? the island,
I was soon confirmed in my opinion; nor can any
one describe my horror and amazement, when, I saw
the ground spread with sculls, hands, feet, and bones
of human bodies; and particularly, I perceived a
, space like a circle, in the midst of which had been a
fire, about which I Conjectlired those wretches sat,
and unnaturally sacrificed and devoured their fellow
creatures.

The horror and loathsomeness of this dreadfut
spectacle, both confounded my senses, and made me
discharge from my stomach in an excessive manner.
I then returned towards my habitation; and in my
way thither shedding floods of tears, and falling down
on my bended knees, gave God thanks for makingmy
nature contrary to those wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands. .

Though reason and my long residence here had
assured me, that the savages never came up to the
thick woody part of the country, and that I had no
reason to be apprehensive of a discovery, yet such
an abhorrence did I still retain, that for two years
after, I confined myself only to my three plantations;
I mean my castle, country seat, and enclosure in the
woods, though in process of time my dreadful appre-
hensions began to wear away. .

Thus my circumstances for some time remained
very calm and undisturbed ; though indeed, the ter-
ror which the savages had put me in, spoiled some
inventions for my own conveniences. One of my
projects was to brew me some beer 2 a very whimsiv
cal one indeed, when it is considered; that I had neis
ther casks sufficient, nor could I make any to preserve
it in; neither had I hops to make it keep, yeast to
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it boil.
Perhaps, indeed. after some years, I might bring this
to bear, as I had done other things. But now my

inventions were placed another way; and day and
night I could think of nothing but how I might de. ROBINSON 030503. , ,

stroy some of these cannibals, when proceeding to

their bloody entertainments; and so saving a victim f i

from being sacrificed, that he might afterwards has;
come my servant. Many were my contrivances any

   
 

this purpose, and many more objections occurrcdfif" -; "

after I had hatched them. I once contrived to digs
hole under the place where they made their fire, and
put therein five or six pounds ,of gunpowder, which
would consequently blow 11p all those that were near
it, but then [was loth to soend so much upon them,
lest it should not do that certain execution I desired,
and only afl'right and not kill them. Having laid this
desi it aside, I again proposed to myself to lie pri-
vate y in ambush in some convenient place, with my
three guns double loaded, and let fly at them in the
midst of their dreadful ceremony; and having killed
two or three of them at every shot, fall upon the rest
suddenly with my three pistols, and let not one 1110-
ther' s son escape. Tl1is1mag1'nation pleased my fancy
so much that I used to dream of' 11 in the night time.
To put my design 1n execution I was not long seek-
ing for a place!) convenient for my purpose, where
unseen I might behold every action of the savages.
Here I placed my two muskets, each of which was
loaded with a brace of slugs, and four or five smaller
bullets about the size of pistol bullets; the fowling
piece was charged with nearly a handful of the largest
swan shot, and in every pistol about four bullets.
And thus all things being prepared, no sooner did
the welcome light spread over the element, but I
would issue forth from my castle, and from a lofty
. hill, three miles distant, try if I could see any inva-
ders approach unlawfully to my kingdom. But haw
ing waited' 1n vain two or three months, it grew very
tiresome to me.

I now argued with 11133:", it was better.for 1nd

I
\'" never to attack, but to remain undiscovered as long

.1381 possibly could; that an opposite conduct would
:7? ~' certainly prove destructive; for as it was scarcely
to'ibe supposed I could kill them all, I might be
.'either overpowered by the remainder, or that some
escaping might bring thousands to my certain de-
struction. And, indeed, religion teak their part so
much as to convince me how contrary it was to my
duty, to be guilty of shedding human blood, innocent
blood, innocent as to me in particular, whatever they
are to one another; that I had nothing to do with it,
but leave it to the God of all power and dominion,
as I said before, to do therein what seemed conve-
nient to his heavenly wisdom. And, therefore, on
my knees I thanked the Almighty for delivering me
from bloody guiltiness, and begged his protection
that I might never fall into their hands. '
Thus giving over an attempt which I had rashly
begun, I never ascended the hill on that occasion
afterward ; I only removed my boat, which lay on
the other side of the island, and every thing that be-
longed to her, towards the east, into a little cove,
that there might not be the least shadow of any boat
near, or habitation upon the island. My castle then
became my cell, keeping always retired in it, except
when I went out to milk my she-goats, or my little
flock in the wood, which was quite out of danger:
for sure I was, that these savages never came here
with expectation to find any thing, and consequently
never wandered from the coast; however, as they
might have several times been on shore, as well be-
fore as after my dreadful apprehensions, I looked
back with horror to think in what state I might have
been, had I suddenly met them, slenderly armed.
with one gun only loaded with small shot; and how
great would have been my amazement, if. instead ofnoe nsow cuusom 79

seeing the print of one man's foot, I had preceived
fifteen or twenty savages, who, having once set their '
eyes upon me, by the swiftness of their feet, would
have left me no possibility of escaping? These
thoughts would sink my very soul, so that I would
fall into a deep melancholy, till such time as the con-

sideration of my gratitude to the divine Being moved.
it from my heart. I then fell into a contemplation
of the secret springs of Providence; and how wou-
derfully we are delivered, when insensible ofit; and
when in uncertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt or
hesitation, what secret hint directs us, in the right
way when We intended to go out of it; nay perhaps
contrary to our business, sense, or inclination.

Anxieties ofmind, and the care of my preservation,
put a period to all future inventions and contri-
vances, either for accommodation, or convenience,
I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a stick, fire a
gun, or make a fire, lest either the noise should be
heard, or the smoke discover me. And on this ac-
count I used to burn my earthenware privately in a
cave, which I found in the wood, and which I made
convenient for that purpose; the principal cause that
brought me here was to make charcoal, so that I
might bake and dress my bread and meat without
any danger. ' '

At that time a curious accident happened to me,
which I shall now relate.

While I was cutting down seine wood for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind a very thick
branch of under-wood. Curious to look into it, I
attained its mouth, and perceived it sufficient for me
to stand upright in.

But when I had entered, having crept upon my
hands and feet through this strait, I found the roof
higher up, I think about twenty feet. But surely ne--mi>>

so Lira AND mvnxroans or

ver mortal saw such a glorious sight before! the

, roof and walls of this cave reflected a hundred thou-

sand lights to me from my two candle . as th Iugh

- they were indented with shining gold, precious stones,

or sparkling diamonds. And indeed it was the most

' delightful cavity or grotto of its kind that could be

desired, though entirely dark. The floor was dry
and level, and had a kind of gravel upon it, no nau-
seous venomous creatures to be seen here, neither
any damp or wet about it. I could fInd no fault but
in the entrance, and [began to think, that even this
might be very necessary for my defence, and there-
fore resolved to make it my principal magazine. I
brought hither two fowling-pieces and three mus-
kets, leaving only five pieces at my castle, planted in
the nature of cannon. III a barrel of gunpowder,
which I took out of the sea, I brought away about
sixty pounds of good powder, which was not da-
maged; and this, with a great quantity of lead for
bullets. I removed from my castle to this retreat, now
fortified both by art and nature.

I fancied myself now like one of the giants of old,
who were said to live in caves and holes among the
rocks, inaccessible to any but themselves, or, at
least, most dangerous to attempt. And now I defied
both the cunning and strength of the savages, either
to find me out or to hurt me.

I think I was now in the twenty-third year of my
reign, and my thoughts much easier than formerly,
having contrived several pietty amusements, and di-
versions to pass away the time in a pleasant manner.
By this time my pretty Poll had learned to speak
English, and pronounce his words ver articulately
and plain; so that for many hours we used to chat
together after a very familiar manner, and he lived
no less than twenty-six years. My dog which was
nineteen years old, sixteen of which he lived with
me, died some time ago, of mere old age. As for
my cats, they multiplied so fast, that l was forced to
kill or drive them into the woods, except two or
three which became my particular favourites. Be-
sides these, I continually kept two or three house-

holds kids about mc, which I taught to feed out ol '

my hand, and two more parrots which could talk in.
differently, and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so ex-
cellently as the first, by my not taking so much pains
with them. I had also several sea {owls which I had
wounded and cut their wings; and growing tame
they used to breed among the low trees about my
castle walls, all of which made my abode very agree-
able.

But what unforeseen events suddenly destroy the
snjoyments of this uncertain state of life, when we
least expect them! It was now the month of De-
cember, and the particular time in my harvest, which
required my attendance in the fields; when going
out pretty early in the morning, before it was day-
light, there appeared to me from the sea-shore, a
flaming light, about two miles from me at the east
end of the island, where I had observed some savages
had been before, not on the other side, but to my
great afl'liction it was on my side of the island. .

Struck with a terrible surprise, and my usual ap-
prehensions, that the savages would perceive my im-
provements, I returned directly to my castle, pulled
the ladder after me, making all things look as wild
and natural as I possibly could. In the next place, I

put myself in a posture of defence, loaded rhythms

kets and pistols, and committing myself .to "God?
. protection, I resolved to defend myself till my last
breath. Two hours after, impatient foijntelligencje,'
I set my ladder up to the side of the hill-,whe'i'e there

' . V "an"? 9 5%,

r
.1
li8'! nu ma mvsu'ruus or

was a flat place, and then pulling the ladder after me,
ascending to the, top, where laying myself on my
belly, with my perspective glass I perceived no less
than nine naked savages, sitting round a small tire,
eating as I supposed, human flesh, with their two
canoes hauled on shore, trailing for the flood to car-
ry them 011' again. The consternation I was in at
this sight, especially seeing them near me, was very
great; but when I perceived their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I became more
easy in my thoughts, being fully convinced, that I
might go abroad with security all the time of flood, if
they were not before landed. And, indeed, this
provedjust as I itnagined; for no sooner did they all
take boat and paddle away, but the tide made north

west. When I saw them gone, I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and placing a couple of pistols in my
belt, with my great sword hanging by my side, I
went to the hill, where at first I made a discovery of
these cannibals, and then saw there had been three
canoes more of the savages on shore at that place,
which with the rest, were making over to the main
land.

But nothing could be more horrid to me, when
going to the place of sacrifice, the blood, the bones,
and other mangled parts of human bodies appeared
in my sight; and so fired was I with indignation, that
I was fully resolved to be revenged on the first that
came there, though Ilost my life in the execution.
It then appeared to me, that the visits which they
make to this island are not very frequent, it being
fifteen months before they came again: but still I was
very uneasy, by reason of the dismal apprehensions
of their surprising me unawares; nor dared I offer
to fire a gun on that side of the island where they
used to appear, lest. taking the alarm. they might
return with many hundred canoes, and then God only
knOWS in what manner I should have made my end.
Thus was I a year or more before I saw any of these
devouring cannibals again.

But to wave this, the following accident, which de-
mands attention, for a while, eluded the force of my
thoughts in revenging myself on those heathens.

0n the 16th of May (according to my wooden
calendar,) the wind blew exceedingly hard, accom-
panied with abundance of thunder and lightning all
day, and succeeded by a very stormy night. The
seeming anger of the heavens made me have recourse
to my Bible. Whilst l was seriously pondering upon
it, I was suddenly alarmed with the noise of a gun,
which I conjectured was fired upon the ocean. Such
an unusual surprise made me start up in a minute;
'when, with my ladder, ascending the mountain as be-
fore, that very moment a flash of tire prcsaged the
report of another gun, whichI presently heard, and
found it was from the part of the sea where the cur
rent drove me a\vay,I could not but then think, that
this must be a ship in distress, and that these were
the melancholy signals for a speedy deliverance.
Great, indeed, was my sorrow upon this occasion;
1but my labours to assist thrm must have proved alto-
;gcther vain and fruitless. However, I brought toge-
.ther all the dry wood that was at hand, and making a
3pretty large pile, set it on fire on the hill. I was cer-
tain they plainly perceived it, by their firing another
gun as soon as it began to, blaze, and after that seve-
ral more from the same quarter. All night long I
kept up my fire; and when the air cleared up, I per-
ceived something a great way at sea, directly cast, but
could not distinguish what it was, even with my glass,
the weather being so very foggy out at sea. How-
ever, keeping my eyes directly fixed upon it, and
perceiving it did not stir, I presently concluded .it
must be:a ship at anchor, and so very hasty was I to
be satisfied, that, taking my gun, I went to the south-
west part of the island, to the same rocks where I had
been fermerly driven away by the current; in which
time, the weather being perfectly cleared up, to my
great sorrow, I perceived the wreck of a ship cast
away upon those hidden rocks I had found when I
was out with my boat; and which, by making a kind
of an eddy, were the occasion of my preservation.

When I considered seriously every thing concern-
ing this wreck, and could perceive no room to sup-
pose any of them saved, 1 cannot explain, by any
possible force of words, what longings my soul felt
on this occasion, often breaking out in this manner
Oh ! that there had been but two or three, nay, even
one person saved, that we might have lived together,
conversed with, and comforted one another! and so
much were my desires moved, that when I repeated
these words, " oh! that there had been but one!" my
hands would so clench together, and my fingers press
the palms of my hands so close, that, had any soft
thing been between them, they would have crushed
it, while my teeth would strike together, and set
against each other so strong, that it required some
time for me to part them. ' -

Till the last year of my being on this island, I
never knew whether or not any had been saved out
of this ship. I had the affliction, some time after, to
see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore, at
the end of the island which was next the shipwreck;
there was nothing on him but a seaman's waistcoat,
a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt, but no particular mark to guess what nation he
was of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight, and
atobacco-pipe, the last of which I preferred much

s
more than I did the first. And now the calmness of
the sea tempted me to venture out in my boat to this
wreck, not only to get something necessary out of
the ship. but perhaps, some living creature might be
on board, whose life I might preserve. This had
such an influence upon my mind, that imtlediately I
went home, and prepared every thing necessary for
the voyage, carrying on heard my boat, provisions
of all sorts, with a good quantity of rum, fresh water,
and a compass: so putting otl',I paddled the canoe
along the shore, till I came to the north-east part at
.the island, from whence [was to launch into the
ocean: but here the current ran so violently, and ap-
peared so terrible. that my heart began to fail me;
foreseeing, that if I was driven into any of these cur-
rents, I might be carried not only out of the reach or
sight of the island, but even inevitably lost in the
boiling surges of the ocean.

So oppressed was I at these troubles, that I gave
over my enterprize, sailing to a little creek on the
shore, where, stepping out, I sat me down on a ris-
ing hill, very pensive and thoughtful. I then per-
ceived that the tide was turned, and the flood come
on, which made it impracticable for me to go out for
so many hours.

That night, I reposcd myself in my canoe, covered
with my watch-coat instead ofa blanket, the heavens
being my tester. I set out with the first of the tide
full north, till I felt the benefit of the current, which
carried me at a great rate eastward, yet not with such
impetuosity as before, as to take from me all govern-
ment of my canoe: so that in two hours I came up
to the wreck, which appeared to me a most melan-
choly sight. It seemed to be a Spanish vessel by'its
building, stuck fast between two rocks; her 'stern
and quarters beaten to pieces by the sea; her main-

8
mast and foremast were brought off by the bhard;
that is, broken sho1t ofi'. As I apploached nea'rer, I
perceived a dog on board, who, seeing me coming,
yelped and cried: and no sooner did [call him, but
the poor creature jumped into the sea, out of which
I took him up almost furnished with hunger and
thirst: so that when I gave him a cake of bread, no
ravenous wolf could devour it more greedily , and he
drank to that degree of flesh water, that he would
have burst himselt hadI suffered him.

The first sight I 111et11itl1 in the ship, were two
men drowned in the cock-room, or forecastle, en-
closed In one another' 5 a1n1s: hence I very probably
supposed, that when the vessel struck in the storm,
so high and incessantly did the waters break in and
over her, that the men not being able to bear it, were
strangled by the constant rushing of the waves. There
were several make of liquor. whether wine or brandy
Icould not be positive, which lay in the lower hold,
as were plainly perceptible by the ebbing out of the
water, yet were too large tux me to pretend to med-
dle withf likewise I perceived several chests, which
I supposed belonged to the seamen, two of which I
got into my boat, 111tl'out examining what was in
them. W'hat became of the sailors I could not cer-
tainly tell; and all her riches signified nothing at that
time to any body.

Searching farther, I found a cask, containing about
twenty gallons full ofliquor, which with some labour
I got into my boat; in the cabin were several mus-
kets, which I let remain there; but took away with
me a great powder horn, with about four pounds of
powder in it. I took also a fireoshovel and tongs,
with two brass kettles, a copper pot to make choco-
late, and a grid-iron; all which were extremely ne-
cessary to me, especially the fire-shovel and tongs.sewer

nonmsox cnusoe. '87

And so with this cargo. accompanied by my dog, I
, came away, the tide serving for that purpose: and
the same evening, about an hour within night, I at-
tained the island, after the greatest toil and fatigue
imaginable. . .

That night I reposed my weary limbs in the boat,
resolving the next morning to harbour what I had
gotten, in my new-found under-ground grotto; and
not .carry my cargo home to my ancient castle.
Having refreshed myself, and got all my effect on
shore, I next proceeded to examine the particulars;
and so tapping the cask, I found the liquor to be a
kind of rum, but not like what we had at the Brazils,
nor indeed near so good. At the opening of the
chest, several things appeared very useful to me ; for
instance, I found in one, a very fine case of bottles,
containing the finest and best sort of cordial waters;
each bottle held about three pints, curiously tipt with
silver. I found also two pots' full of the choisest '
sweetmeats, and two more which the water had ut- '
terly spoiled. There were likewise several good
shirts, exceedingly welcome to me, and about one
dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs, and
coloured neckcloths, the former of which were abso-
lutely necessary for wiping my face in a hot day; and
In the till, I found three bags of money, in one of
which, decently wrapt up in a piece of paper, were
six doubloons of gold, and some small bars and
wedges of the same metal, which I believe might
weigh near a pound. In the other chest, I only found
some clothes of very little value, and about two
pounds of fine glazed powder, in three flasks, kept
as I believe, for charging their {curling-pieces on any
occasion, so that on the whole, I made very little of
this'voyage. The money was indeed as mere dirt
to me, useless and unprofitable, all whiqhgl would
have freely parted with, for two or three pair of
English shoes and stockings, things that for many
years I had not worn, except those which I had
lately taken off the feet of the unfortunate men I
found drowned in the wreck, yet not so good as
English shoes, either for ease or service. I found
no gold in the second chest; so concluded that what
I took from the first belonged to an officer, the latter
appearing to have a much inferior person for its
owner. However, as despicable as the monev seemed,

I likewise lu: good it to my cave lzn ing it up securely,
as I did the rest 01 my cargo, and intending to seek
out, and return it to the lamin of the unfu-tunate
owner, if ever I should return to Europe; and after
I had done all this, I returned back to my boat, row-
ing or paddling her along till I came to my old har-
bour, where I carefully laid her up, and so made the
best of my way to my castle. When [arrived there,
every thing seemed safe and quiet; so that now, my
only business was to repose myself after my wonted
manner, and take care of my domestic affairs. But
though I might have lived very easy, as wanting for
nothing absolutely needful; yet still I was more vigi-
lant than usual, upon account of the savages, never
going much abroad; or if I did, it was to the east
part of the island, where l was well assured that the
savages never came, and where I might not be tron--
bled to carry such a' hea'vy load 01 weapons for my
defence, as I was obliged to do if I went the other
way.

Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in
all which time, contrary to my former resolutions,
my head was filled with nothing but projectsand de-
signs how I might escape from this island, and so
much were my wandering thoughts bent upon a ram-
bling disposition. that had I had the same boat that
I went from Salee in, I should have ventured once
more to the uncertainty of the raging ocean.

Having retired to my castle, after my late voyage
to the ship, my fiigate laid up and secured, as usual,
and my condition I"the same as before, except being
richer, though I had as little occasion for riches as
the Indians of Peru had for gold, before the cruel
Spaniards came among tl1e1n;bone night in March,
being the rainy season, in the four and twentieth
year lflof my solitude, I lay down to sleep, very well
in health, without distemper, pain, or uncommon un
easiness, either of body or mind; yet notwithstand
ing, I could not compose myself to sleep all the night
long. All this tedious while, it is impossible to ex-
press what innumerable thoughts came into my head.
I traced quite over, the whole history of my life in
miniature, from my utmost remembrance ofthings till
I came to this island , and then proceeded to examine
every action and passage that had occurred since I
had taken possession of my kingdom. In my reflec-

tions upon the latter, I "as comparing the happy
posture of my affairs In the beginning of my reign,
to this life. of anxiety, fear, and concern, since I had
discovered the print of a foot in the sand; that while
I continued without apprehension, I was incapable
of feeling the dread and terror I now sufl'ered. How
thankful rather ought I to have been for the know-
ledge of my danger, since the greatest happiness 8
man can be possessed of is to have sufficient time to
provide against it. How stupendous is the goodness
of Providence, which sets such narrow bounds to the
sight and knowledge of human nature, that while
men walk in the. midst of so many dangers, they are
kept serene and calm, by having the events of things
bid from their eyes, and knowing nothing of those
8'
many dangers that surround them, till perhaps they
are dissipated and vanished away.

About a year and a half after, one morning early,
I was very much surprised by seeing no less than
five canoes all on shore together, on my side of the
~ island, and the savages that belonged to them all
landed, and out of my sight. Upon which, much
dispirited and perplexed, I lay still in my castle;
which, however, I put in a proper posture for an at-
tack: aml having formerly provided all that was
necessary, was soon ready to enter upon an engage-
ment, should they attempt it. Having waited for
some time, my impatient temper would let me hear
it no longer; I set my guns at the foot ofmy ladder.
and, as usual, ascended up to the top of the hill at
two stages, standing, however, in such a manner, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that they
could not easily perceive me; and here. by the assis-
tance of my perspective glasses, I observed no less
'hirty in number around a fire, feasting upon what
.neat they had dressed : how they cooked it, or what
it was, I could not then perfectly tell ; but they were
all dancing and capering about the flames, using
many frightful and barbarous gestures.

But while, with a curious eye, I was beholdin
these wretches, my spirits sunk within me, when
perceived them drag two miserable creatures from
the boats, to act afresh the dreadful tragedy, as I
supposed they had done before. It was not long be-
fore one of them fell upon the ground, knocked down
as I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that
was their manner; while two or three others went
immediately to work. cutting him open for their
cookery, and then fell to devour him as they had
done the former: while the last unhappy captive was
left by himself, till such time as they were ready for
him. The poor creature looked round him with :-
sorrowful eye, trembling at the thoughts of death;
yet seeing himself a little at liberty, nature, that very
moment, as it were, inspired him with hopes of life -.
he started away from them, and ran, with incredible
swit'tness, along the sands, directly to that part of
the coast where my ancient and venerable castle stood.

You may well imagine I was dreadfully afl'righted
upon this occasion, when as I thought. they pursued
him in a whole body, all running towards my palace.
And now, indeed, I expected that he would certainly
fly to my grove for protection. However, my spirits
beginning to recover, I still kept upon my guard;
and I now plainly perceived, there were but three
men out of the number that pursued him. ' I was in-
finitely pleased at the swiftness with which the poor
creature ran from his pursuers, gaining so much
ground upon them, that I plainly perceived, could he
thus hold it out for half an hour, there was not the
least doubt but he would save his life from the power
of his enemies.

Between them and my castle, there was a creek,
the very same which I sailed into with all my effects
from the wreck of the ship, on the steep bank of
which, I very much feared the poor victim would be
taken, if he could not swim for his escape; but soon
was I out of pain for him. when I perceived he made
nothing of it, though at full tide, but with an intrepid
courage, spurred on by the sense of danger, he
plunged into the flood, swimming over in about
thirty strokes, and then landing, ran with the same
incredible strength and swiftness as before. \thn
the three pursuers came'to the creek, two of them,
who I perceived could not swim, happily for them-
selves, returned to their company, while the 'other,
with an equal courage, but much less swit'tness, st-
tained the other side, as though he was-resolved never
to give over the pursuit. And now or never, I thought,
was the time for me to procure me a servant, com-
panion, or assistant, and that I was decreed by Pro-
vidence to he the instrument to save this poor crea-
ture's life. I inunediately descended my two ladders
with the greatest expedition ; I took up my two guns,
which, I said before, we e at the bottom of them;
and vettintr up arrain with the same haste towards the
hill, bl made nearer the set. In a word, takinga
short cut down the hill, I interposed between the
pursuer and pursued, hallooing aloud to the latter,
who ventured to look back, "as no doubt, as much
terrified at me as at the enemy from w hum he fled.
I beckoned to him, with my hand, to return back,
and, in the mean time, advanced towards the pursuer.
I was very unwilling to tire, lest the restshould hear,
though, at that distance, I questioned whether they
could or no; and being out of sight of the smoke,
they could not easily have known what to make of it.
The savage Stopped as if he had been amazed; when,
advancing towards him,l could perceive him take
his bow from his back, and, after fixing an arrow to
it, preparing to shoot at me, and, without dispute, he
might have lodged it in my breast; but in this abso-
lutely necessary case of self-preservation, I imme-
diately fired, and shot him dead just as his hand was
going to draw the fatal strino'. All this while, the

savatre, who had fled before, stood still, anti had the
satisfaction to see his enemy killed, as he thoutrht,
who designed to take army his lile , so afiiighted
was he with the the :111.1 noise oi mv piece, that he
stood as it were li' .tc Lot' 5 wife, fixed and immow-
able, without eithers case or motion. This oblilred
me to halloo to him twain, making the plainest sions
I could to him to thaw neuter. I perceived he under-
stood these tokens, by his approaching to me a little
way, when, as if afraid I should kill him too, he
stopped again. Several times did he advance, and
as often stop in this manner, till, coming more to
my view, I perceived him trembling, as if he was to
undergo the same fate. Upon which I looked upon
him with a smiling countenance, and still beckoning
to him; at length he came close to me, and kneeled
down, kissed the ground, laid his head upon it, and
taking me by the foot, set it upon his head; which,
as I understood afterwards, was a token of swearing
to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and making
much of him, encouraged him in the best manner I
could. The greatest astonishment that my new ser-
vant conceived, was at the manner of killing the sav-
age at such a distance, without a bow and arrow;
and such was his longing desire to know it, that he
first pointed to the dead carcase, and then made signs
to me to grant him leave to go to it. Upon which I
bid him go. and, as well as I could, made him sensible
I granted his request. But'when he came there, how
wonderfully was he struck with amazement! First,
he turned it on one side, then on another, wondering
he could perceive no quantity of blood, he bleed-
ing inwardly: and after sufficiently admiring the
wound the bullet had made in the breast, he
took up his bow and arrows and came back again;
upon which, I turned to go away, making signs to
him to follow, lest the rest, missing their companion,
might come in pursuit of him, and this I found he
understood very well, by making me to understand
that his design was to bury it, that it might not be
seen ; and which by signs again I made him sensible
I very much approved of. Immediately he fell to
work, aml never was grave-digger more dexterous in
the world than he was; for in an instant, as I might
say. he scraped a large hole in the sands with his
hands, sutiicient to bury it in; there he dragged it.
and, without any ceremony, covered it over. I then
called him away, and instead of carrying him direct-
ly to my castle at first, I conveyed him to my cave
on the farther part of the island.

W'eary and taint, hungry and lhirstv, undoubtedly
must this poor. creature he, supported chic- fl-y by the
.vivaeity ot spi1it, and uncommon transports of joy
that his deliveiance occasioned. Hem I gave him
bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and Iawater to
drink, on which he fed very cheerfully, to his ex-
ceeding refreshment. I then made him a convenient
bed, with a parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon
it, (a bed which I used myself sometimes,) and then
pointing to it. made signs for him to lie down to
sleep, upon which the poor creature went to take a
welcome repose.

Indeed he was a very comely, handsome, young
fellow, extremely well made, with straight long limbs,
not too large, but tall and well-shaped, and, as near
as I could reckon, about twenty- s-ix years of age.
His countenance had nothing' 1n it fierce or surly, but
rather a sort of majesty in his face; and especially
when he smiled, he had all the sweetness ofa Euro-
pean. His hair was not curled like Wool, as many
of the blacks are, but long and black, with the most
beautiful, yet careless t1 esses spreading over his
shoulders. He had a very high and large forehead,
with a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. His skin was not so tawny as that of the Ame-
ricans; but rather of alight dun olive colour, that
had something agreeable in it, though not very easy
to give a description of. His face was round and
plump, with a small nose, very different from the
flatness of the negroes', a pretty small mouth, thin
lips, fine teeth, very well set, and white as the driven
now. In a word, such handsome features, and exact11031115011 causos. ' 5

symmetry in every part, made me consider, that I
had saved the life 01 an Indian prince, no less grace-
fii and accomplished than the great Oroonoke, whose
memorable behaviour and unhappy contingencies of
life, have charmed the woild, both to admiration of
his person, and compassion for his suflerings.

He had not, I think, slept above an hour, when he
awake again, and while I was milking my goats hard
by, out he runs l'1om the ca1e towards me in my en-
closure, and 111) mu himself down on the ground in
the lowest prostration, made all the antic gestures
imaginable, to express his thankiulness to me for
being his deliverer. He laid down his head again
upon Iathe ground, close to 1111' foot, and set my other
foot upon his heal, as he had done before, making
all the sivrns of snh' cction, serv: Rude, and submission
imaginable, to let me understand he would serve me
as long as his life endured. As I understood him in
many things, I made hnn sensible I was very well
pleased with him; and, in a little time, I began to
speak to him, and teach him how to talk to me again.

In the first place, I male him understand his name was
to be Friday, because it was upon that day I saved his
life; I then taught nim to sav Master, which I made
him sensible was to be my name; I likewise taught
him to say res and no, and to know what thev meant.
I gave him some milk 111 an eatthen pot, making him
view me while I drank it before him, and soaked my
bread 111 it; I gave him a cake. of bread, and caused
him to soak it like" ise, to "hieh' ne readily consent-
ed, making signs oi the greatest satisfaction imagina-
ble.

All that night did I keep him there; but no sooner
did the morning light appear, than I ordered him to
arise and come along 11 ith me, with certain tokens
that I would give him some clothes like mine. at
which he seemed very glad, being stark naked. with-
out the least covering whatever. As we passed by
the place where the man had been iIIteIred, my man
pointed diIectly to his grave, showing me the marks
that he had made to find it again, giving me to under-
stand, by signs, that we should dig him up and devour
him. At this I appeared extremely displeased, ex-
pressed my utmost abhorrenee, as if I would vomit
at the apprehensions of it, beckoning with my hand
to come away, which he did with the greateat reve-
rence and submission. After this, I conducted him to
the top of the hill, to view if the rest of the savages
were yet remaining there; but when I looked through
my perspective glass, I could see no appearance of
them, nor of their car .;oes so that it was very evi-
dent they never minded their deceased companion
whom we had slain; which if they had, they would
surely have searched for or left one boat behind for
him to follow, after he returned from his pursuit.
Curiosity, and a desire of satisfaction, animating
me with courage, to see this scene of barbarity. I
took my man Friday with me to the place of their '
bloody entertainment. But when I came there, I was
struck with the utmost horror at so dreadful a spec-
taele, whilst Friday was no way concerned about it,
being no doubt in his turn one of these devourers.
Here lay several human bones, there several pieces
of mangled flesh, half eaten, mangled and scorched,
whilst streams of blood ran promiscuously as water
from a fountain. As I was musing on this dreadful
sitrlit, Friday took all the pains he could by particular
sivns, to make me understand that they had brought
over four prisoners to feast upon, tl; me of whom they
had eaten up, and that he II as the fourth, pointing to
himself: that there having been a bloody battle be-
tween them and his great king, in the just defence of,30"ng cansoa. fl

whom he was taken prisoner, with many others; all
of these were carried off to difi'erent places to be de-
voured by their conquerors; and that it was his for-
tune to be brought hither by these wretches for the
very same purpose.

After I was made sensible of these things, I caused
Friday to gather those horrid remains, and lay them
together upon a heap, which I ordered to be set on
fire, and burnt them to ashes: my man, however,

- still retained the nature of a cannibal, having a han-
kering stomach after some of the flesh: but such an
extreme abhorrence did I express at the least ap-
pearance of it, that he durst not but conceal it: for I
made him very sensible, that if he attempted any
such thing, I would certainly shoot him.

This being done, I carried my man with me to my
castle. and gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had taken out of the poor gunner's chest before
mentioned; and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very well : in the next place, I made him a jerkin
of goat skin, such as my skill was able to.manage,
and indeed I thought myself then a tolerably good
tailor. I gave him also a cap, which I made of a
hare's skin, very convenient and fashionable. Thus
being clothed tolerably well, my man was no less
proud of his habit than Ilwas at seeing him in it. In-
deed he went very awkwardly at first, but by use. at
length he took to them very well.

My next concern was, where I should lodge him;
and that I might do well by him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I erected a tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications. in the inside of
the last, and the outside of the first; and as there
was an entrance or door into my cave, I made a for-
mal framed door-case, and a door .to open on the in-
side ; I barred it up in theonight-time. taking in my

  

,.1_' ' , .7 . . .xyA._L,L-.'<<' I
ladders too, so that, was my man to prove treacho
rous, there could he no way to come at me in the in-
side of my innermost wall, without making so much
noise in getting over, that it must needs waken me;
for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, spreading over my tent, and leaning up
to the side of the mountain, which was again laid
across with smaller sticks instead oflaths, and thatch-
ed over to a great thickness with the rice straw,
which was as stl 011g as reeds: and at the hole of
the place, left on purpose to go in or out by the lad-
der, I had placed a kind of a trap-door, which ifit
had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but have fallen down, and made a
great noise; and as to my weapons, every night I
took them all to my bed-side.

But there was no occasion for this precaution; for
surely never Master had a more sincere, faithful. and
loving servant than Friday proved to me. "'ithout
passion, snllenness, or design, perfectly obliging and
engaging, his affections were as much tied to me as
those ofa child to his parents; and I might venture
to say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving
of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever, and, indeed,
the many testimonies he gave me of this, sufficiently
convinced me that I had no occasion to use all these
precautions.

I had not been above two or three days returned
to my castle. but my ch1efdes1gn was ,how I shoulu
bring Fridav off from his horrid way of feeding; and
to take from him that inhuman relish, he, by habit,
had been accustomed to, I thought it my duty to let
him taste other flesh, which might the rather tempt
him to the same abhorrence I'3 so often expressed
'against their accursed way of living. Upon which,
one morning .I took him out with me, with an inten--
tion to kill a kid out of the flock, and bring it home,
and dress it. As I was going, I perceived a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. Immediately I catched hold of my man Fri-
day, and bidding him stand still, and not stir, I pre-
sented my piece,'and shot one of the kids. My poor
serwant, who had at a distance perceived me kill his
adversary, and yet did not know by what means, or
how it was done, stood trembling and surprised, and
looked so amazed, that I thought he would have sunk
into the earth. He did not see the kid I aimed at,
or behold I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to see if he was not wounded, thinking my resolu-
tion was to kill him; for coming to me, he fell on
his knees, earnestly pronouncing many things which
I did not understand the meaning of ; which at length
I perceived was, that I would not take away his life.
Indeed, so much compassion had I for this creature,
that it was with difficulty I refrained from tears. But,
however, as another sort of countenance was neces-
sary, and to convince him that I would do him no
harm; I took him, smiling, by the hand, then laughed
. at him, and pointing to the kid which I had slain,
made signs to him to fetch it, which accordingly he
did. No less curious was he in viewing how the
creature was killed, than he was before in beholding
the Indian; which, while he was admiring, I charged
my gun again, and presently perceived a great fowl
like a hawk, perching upon a tree within shot; and,
therefore, to let Friday understand what I was going
to do, I called him to me again, pointing at the fowl,
which I found to be a parrot. I made him under-

stand that I would shoot and kill that bird'; accord- .

ingly I fired, and bade him look, when immediately
he saw the parrot {all down. Again he stood like a ' p

one amazed, notwithstanding all I had said to hing}
and the more confounded he was, because he did not
perceive me put any thing in my gun. As for it in
particular, he would not so much as touch it for se-
veral days after; but would come and communicate
his thoughts to it, and talk to it, as if the senseless
piece had understood and answered him; all this I
could perceive him to do, when he thought my back
was turned, the chief intent of which was, to desire it
not to kill him, as I afterward came to understand.

I never strove to prevent his admiration, nor hinder
him from these comical gestures he used on such oc-
casions; but when his astonishment was a little over,
I made tokens to him to run and fetch the parrot that
I had shot; which accordingly he did, staying some
time longer than usual, by reason that the bird not
being quite dead, had fluttered some way farther from
the place where she fell. In the mean time, as he
was looking for her, I took the advantage of charg-
ing my gun again, that so I might be ready for any
other mark that offered ; but nothing more occurred
at the time. So I brought home the kid, and the
same evening took off the skin, and divided the car-
case as well as I could. Part of the flesh I stewed
and boiled in a pot I had for that purpose. And then,
spreading my table, I sat down, giving my man some
of it to eat, who was wonderfully pleased, and seem-
ed to like it very well : but what was the most sur-
prising to him was to see me eat salt with it: upon
which he made me understand, that the salt was very
bad for me; when putting a little into his month, he
seemed to nauseate it in such a manner, as to spit

and sputter at it, and then washed his mouth with

fresh water: but to show him how contrary his opi-
nion was to mine, I put some meat into my mouth
withaut salt, and feigned to spit and sputter as much
for want of it, as he had done at it; yet all this prov-
ed of no signification to Friday, and it was a long
while before he could endure any salt in his' meat or
broth, and even then but a small quantity.

Thus, having fed him sufficiently with boiled meat
and broth at that time, the next day I was resolved
to feast him with a roasted piece of the kid. And hav-
ing no spit to fasten it, nor jack to turn it, I made use
of that common artifice which many of the people of
England have, that is, to set two poles upon each side of
the fire, and one across on the top, hanging the meat
thereon with a string, and so turning it round continu-
ally, till it was sufliciently roasted. This practice caused
great admiration in my man Friday, being quite ano-
ther way than. that to which the savages were accus--
tomed; But when he came to taste the sweetness
and tenderness of the flesh, he expressed his entire
satisfaction above a thousand different ways. As I
could not but understand his meaning, you may be
sure I was as wonderfully pleased, especially when
he made it also very plain to me, that he would never,
while he lived, eat man's flesh more. _.

It was now high time I should set my new servan
to work; so next day, I put him to beat out some
corn, and sift it in the same manner as I had done
before. And really the fellow was very quickland
handy in the execution of any thing I ordered 'him
to go about. I made him understand that it was to
make bread for us to eat, and afterwards let him see
me bake it. In short, he did every thing as I order-
ed him in a little time, as well as I could perform it
myself. .

But now, considering that I had two months ~to

feed instead 9f one, it Was necessary that I should"

provide more ground for my harvest, and plant};

larger quantity of corn than I commonly used, to do},

upon which, I marked out a lagerpie'eggilandJenc-
.1- - . fit:

\ ",K
ing itin the same manner as I had done before; in
the execution of which I must give Friday this good
word, that no man could work more hard}, or with
better will than he did; and when I made him sensi-
ble that it was for bread to serve him as well as me,
he then very passionately made me understand, that
he thought I had much more labour on his account
than I had for myself; and that no pains or diligence
should be wantimr in him, if 1 11 ould but direct him
in those works wherein he might proceed.

I must certainly own, that this 11 as the most plea-
sant yearI e1 er had in the island, tor alter some
time, Friday began to talk p1etty 11 ell and under-
stood the names ofthose thinns which I 11' as wont to
call for, and the places 11 l1e1 I used to send him.
So that my long silent tongue, 11.11ch had been so
many years unused, except when pr a1ing to God, or
conversing 111th m1 poll, now began to be occupied
in teaching, and talking to my man Friday, ' for in-
deed I had such a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself, so innocent did his simple and unleigned ho-
nesty appear more and mme every day, that I really
began entirely to lo1e him; and, for his part, I be-
lieve there was no love lost, and that his nature had
been more charmed by my exceeding kindness, and
his affection mom placed upon me. than any other
object whatsoever among his own countrymen.

I once had a great desire to tr1 it he had any
hankering inclination to his 01111 countrv again: and
by this time having taught him English so well, that
he could give me tolerable answers to any question
which I demanded, I asked him whether that nation
to which he belonged ever conquei ed in battle? This
question made Fiiday smile, and to which he answer-
ed, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better;" as much
as to say, they always get the better in fight. YouCIL'LSOQ .011- Lb: tafCICLHnJQEEEtQDI the ship .nosrxsos ennson. 103

say, said I, that you always fight the better; why
then, Friday, how came you to be taken prisoner?

Friday. But for all that, my nation beat much.

Master. How, say you, beat! if your nation beat
then, how came you to be taken?

Friday. The more many mans than my nation, in
the place where me was, they take one, two, three
and me; my nation much overheat them in the yon-
der place where me no was, there my nation mans
beat one, two, three great thousands.

Master. hen why did not your men recover you
from the hands of your enemies?

Friday. They run one, two, or three, and me; they
make all go into the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time. ' -

Master. 'Tis very well, Friday; but what does
your nation do with the prisoners they take; Do they
carry them away and eat them as they have dOne'!

Friday. Yes, yes, my nation eat mans too, eat up
all.
Master. To what place do they carry them to be
devoured ?

Friday. Go to other nations where they think.

.Master. Do they bring them hither?

Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other
place.

.Master. And have you been with them here, Friday?

Friday. Yes, me been here, (pointing to the north-
west of the island, being the side where they used to
land.

Thus having gotten what account I could from my
man, I plainly understood, that he had been as bad as
any of the rest of the cannibals, having been formerly
among the savages who used to come on shore on the
farthest part of the island, upon the same bloody oo-
casions as he was brought hither for: and sometime-
after. I carried him to that place where he pointed;
and no sooner did he come there, but he presently
knew the ground, signifying to me that he was once
there when they ate up twenty men, two women and
a young child; but as he could not explain the num-
ber in English, he did it by so many stones in a row,
making a sign to me to count them.

My next question was, how far it was from the is-
land to the shore, and whether canoes were not often
lost in the ocean! to which he answered, there was
no danger; that no canoes were ever lost; but that
after a little way out to the sea, there was a strong
current, and a wind always one way, in the afternoon.
This I thought at first to be no more than the sets of
tide, of going out or coming in; but I afterwards un-
derstood it was occasioned by the great draught and
reflux oi'the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or
gulfot'which, I imagined my kingdom lay; and that
the land which I perceived to the tvest and north-west,
must be the great island Trinidad, ou the north of the
river.

Well, you may be sure, this knowledge, which the
imperfect information of my man had led me to, was
very comfortable to me, and made me so curious as
to ask him, how I might depart from this island, and
get amongst those white men? He told me, " Yes.
yes, I might go in two canoes." In two canoes,
thought I, what does my man mean. And, indeed, it
was a long time before I understood his meaning,
which was, that it must be a large boat, as big as two
canoes, able to bear with the waves, and not so liable
to be overwhelmed as one must be.

I believe there is no state of life but what may be
happy, if people would but endeavour for their part
to make it so. He is not the happiest man that has
the most riches, but he that is content with what he
hath. Before I had my servant, I thought myselfmis
arable till I had him; and now that I had enjoyed the
happy benefits of him, I still complained, and begged
adeliverance from a place of retirement, ease, and
plenty, where Providence had suiliciently blessed me
In a word, from this time, I entertained some hopes.
that one time or other,l might find an opportunity to
make my escape from this island, and that this poor
savage might be a great furtherance thereto.

I now began to instruct my servant, in the saving
knowledge of the true Deity, in which the directions
of God's holy Spirit assisted me.

Friday, said I, you must know, that before this
world was made, there was an Almighty Being exist-
ing, by whose power all things Were made, and whose
majesty shall have no end. To be glorified and ador-
ed by beings of a heavenly nature, he created angels
and archangels, that is, glorified spirits resembling
himself to encompass his throne, eternally singing
forth his praise, in the most heavenly sounds and di
Vine harmony.

I found it easy enough to imprint the right notions
in his mind oqud; for nature assisted me in all my
arguments, to show him plainly the necessity of a
great and overruling, governing power, of a secret
directing providence, and of the equity and reasona-
bleness of paying adoration to our Creator.

I then entered upon a long discourse with him,
upon the subject of the world's redemption by the
Saviour of it, and the doctrine of repentance preached
from heaven, together with an holy faith in our bless-
ed Redeemer Jesus Christ.

By the constant application I made of the Scrip-
tures, as I read them to my man Friday, I earnestly
endeavoured to make him (understand every part of.
them as much as lay in my power. He also, on the100 1.1!: AND avenues: or

other hand, by his very serious questions and inqui-
ries, made me a much better proficient in Scripture
knowledge, than I should have been by my own pri-
vate readlnv and 5111 '-'l_1 .

You may bweil sunpose, that, by the frequent dis-
course we had together, 121v man and I became mos:
intimately acquainted, and the tthere was ve' 1' little
that I could say, b11t11i1atF1ida;-' understood, n'nd 1n-
deed, he spoke very fluently, thou-:11 it was Lutbro-
ken English. I no": tooka p.1ticular pleasure in
relating: all my adventures, espe inliy those that oc-
curred since my being cast on this island. I made
him understand that wonderful my Ste: 1', as he conceiv-
ed, of gunpowder and bullet, and tang ht him how to
shoot. I also presented to him a knife, which pleased
him exceedingly, making him a belt, with a frog
hanging thereto, like those in which we wear hang-
ers in England; and instead oi'a hanger to put in the
frog, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as
good, but even a better weapon upon many occa-
sions. In a word my man thus accoutred, looked
upon himself as great as Don Quixote. when that
celebrated champion went to combat the Windmill.

I next gave him a very particular doszription ot
' my misfortune in being" shipwrecked; showing him,
as near as I could, the place where the ship lay,
which had been gone long befo1e :bnt I irought
him to the ruins of my boat, 111nm, before, my whole
strength could not move, but now 11 as almost rotten
and fallen to pieces. I observed my man Friday to
View this boat with an uncommon cuiiosity; which
when he had done, he stood pondering a great while,
and said nothinu,' At last, said I, Friday, what makes
you ponder so much." He replied," 0 master, me
see like boat come to place at my nation."

It was some time. indeed, be.ore I understood what
my man m'eant; but examining strictly into it, I
plainly found, that such another boat, resembling
mine, had come upon the country where he dwelt:
that is to say, by his farther explanation, that the
boat was driven there through stress of weather
Indeed Friday answered my demands very well,
making every thing plain to my understanding; but
beyond measure was I satisfied when he told me,
with great warmth'and ardour, " 0 master, we save
white mans from drown ;" upon which I immediately
asked him, if there were any white mans, as he
called them, in the boat; "Yes, yes," said he, '" the
boat full, very full of white mans," How many,
Friday, said I. Hereupon he numbered his fingers,_.
and counted seventeen. And when I asked him what'
became of them all, and whether they lived or not?
he replied, Yes, master, they all live, they be live
among my nation." This information put fresh
thoughts into my head, that these must be the very
men who before I concluded had been swallowed up
in the ocean, after they had left their ship that had
struck upon the rocks of my kingdom, and after es-
caping the fury of the deep, landed upon the wild
. shore, and committed themselves to the fury of the
devouring Indians. '
The manner of their cruelties to one another
which consequently, as I thought, must be acted with
greater barbarity to strangers, created in me a great
anxiety, and made me still mere curious to ask Fri~
day concerning them. He told me. he was sure thev
still lived there, having resided among them above
four years, and that the savages gave them victuals
to live upon. But pray. Friday, said I, whence pro.
ceeded all this good nature and'generosity? How.
came it to pass that they did not kill and eat them,
to please their devouring; appetites: and, occasion
so splendid an entertainment among them? "No,
no," said Friday, " they not kill 'em, they make
brother with 'em ;" by which I understood there was
a'truce between them. And then I had a more fa-
vourable opinion of the Indians, upon F riday's utter-
ing the words: " My nation t'other nation no eat
mans but when mans make war fight:" as though he
had said, that neither those of his kingdom, nor any
other nations that he knew of, ever ate their fellow-
creatures, but such as their law of arms allowed to
be devoured: that is, those miserable captives, whose
misfortune it should be to be made priSUners of war.

Some considerable time after, upon a very pleasant
day, in most serene weather, my man and'I stood
upon the top of a hill, on the island, whence I had
once before beheld the continent of America. I could
not tell immediately what was the matter: for sud-
denly Friday, fell a jumping and dancing as if he had
been mad; and upon my demanding the reason of
his behaviour, "0 joy," said he, " 0 glad ! there see
my country, my nation, there white mans gether."
And indeed such a rapturous sense of pleasure, ap-
peared in his countenance, that his eyes had an un-
common sparkling and brightness, and such a strange
eagerness, as if he had a longing desire to be in his
own country again. This made me not so well satiSo
tied with my man Friday as before ; for by this ap-
pearance, I made no dispute, but that if he could get
back thither again, he would not only be unmindful
of what religion I had taught him, but likewise of
the great obligation he owed me for his Wonderful
deliverance; nay, that he would not only inform his
countrymen ofme, but accompany hundreds of them
to my kingdom, and make me a miserable sacrifice,
like those unhappy wretches taken in battle.aosxxsox cansor - 109 '

Indeed I was very much to blame to have these-
cruel, and unjust suspicious, and must freely own I
wronged the poor creature very much, who was of
a quite contrary temper. And had he had that dis-
cerning acuteness which many Europeans have, he
would certainly have perceived my coldness and in-
difi'erence, and also have been very much concerned
upon that account.

As we were walking up the same hill another day,
when the weather was so hazy at sea, that I could
not perceive the continent, Friday, said I, don't you
wish yourself to be in your own country, your own
nation, among your old friends and acquaintances!
"Yes," said he, " me much 0 glad to be at my own
nation." And what would you do there, Friday?
Would you turn wild again, eat man's flesh, and be a
savage as you were formerly? " N o, no," (answered
he, full of concern, and shaking his head.) " Friday
now tell them to live good, tell them pray God, tell

them to eat corn, bread, cattle, flesh, milk, no eat .

9'

man again. But surely, replied I, if you should
offer to do all this, they will kill you; and. to mani-
fest their contempt of such instruction, eat-- you up
when they have done. He then put on a grave, yet'
innocent and smooth countenance, saying, " N 0, they
no kill me, they willing love learn :" that is; that
they would be very willing to learn ; adding withal,
"that they had learned very much of. the bearded
mans that came in the boat." Will you, said I, go
back again, Friday? He smiled at that, and told me,
that he could not swim so far. But, said I, I will make
a canoe for you: "Yes master," said he, "mego
if you go, me no go if you stay." I go, Friday!

why would ydu have them eat me up, and devour ..

your .kind master? " No, no." said he, "me make

them no eat master, and 'me make them much love .~
you ;" that is, he would tell them how I had slain his
enemies, and thereby saved his life, for which reason
he would make them love me: and then he related
to me, as well as he was able, how exceedingly kind
those of his nation Were to the white, or bearded
men, as he called them, who in their great calamity,
were driven into their country.

It was from this time, indeed, I had strong inclina-
tions to venture over, and use my utmost efforts, if
possible, to join with these white bearded men, who
undoubtedly were Spaniards or Porbguese; for
thought I, it must he certainly a. better and safer
way, to escape when there is a good company, than
for me alone, from an island forty iniies off the shore,
and without any assistance. Some days after, Fri-
day and I being at work, as usual, at the same time
diverting ourselves with various discourses, I told
him I had a boat which I would bestow upon him,
whenever he pleased to return to his own nation:
and to convince him of the truth of what I said, I
took him with me to the other side of the island,
where my frigate lay, and then taking it from under
water, (for I always kept it sunk, for fear ofa dis-
covery,) we both went into it to see how it would
manage such an expedition.

And really never could any be more dexterous in
rowing than my faithful servant, making the boat go
as fast again as I could. Well, now, Friday, said I,
shall we now go to your much desired nation? But.
instead of meeting with that cheerfulness I expected,
he looked very dull and melancholy at my saying
so; which indeed at first surprised me, till he made .
me sensible, that his concern was about the boat be-
ing too small to go so far a voyage. Upon which, I
let him understand I had a much bigger: and accord-
ingly, the next day went to the place, where the first. ' I
aonmsox causon. Ill

boat lay, which I had made, when all the strength I
had, or art I could use, failed me in my attempt to
get it into the water: but now it having lain in the
sun two and twenty years, and no care being taken
of it all that while, it became in a manner rotten. My
man told me, that such a boat would do very well
for the purpose, sufficient to carry " enough vittle,
dring, bread," for that was his manner of talking.
In short, my mind being strongly fixed, upon my
design of going over with him to the continent, I
very plainly told him, that we would both go and
make a boat full as big, and more proportionable
than that, wherein he might safely return to his own
nation.

Go your way, since you desire it, and leave me
alone by myself, as I was before I saved your life.

Never was any creature more thunderstruck than
Friday was at these words, "Go me away, leave
master away." said he, after a long silence, "No,
no, Friday die, Friday live no? master gone ;" as
though he had said, I neither can nor will live, if my
master sends me from him. Friday felt towards me
the greatest gratitude, and the most sincere love; he
found me not only his deliverer, but his preserver
and comforter; not a severe-and cruel tyrant, but a
kind, loving, and afl'able friend. He wanted for no
manner of sustenance; and when he was ill, or out-
of order, I was his physician, not only for his body,
but his soul; and therefore no wonder was it, that
such an innocent creature, long since divested of
his former natural cruelty, should have an uncom-
mon concern at so cruel a separation from me, which
pierced him to the very soul, and made him desire
even todie, rather than live without me.

After-Thad told Friday, in a very careless manner,
that he should be at his liberty as soon as the boat.
was made, the language of his eyes expressed all ima-
ginable confusion; when immediately running to one'
of his hatchets, which he used to wear as a defensive
weapon, he gives it into my hand, with a heart so full,
that he could scarcely speak. Friday, said I, what is
it you mean? What mustI do with this? " Only kill
Friday," said he, " Friday care not live long." But
what must I kill you for? replied I again. "Ah, dear
master, what made you Friday save from eat a me
up, so keep long Friday, make Friday love God, and
now Friday send away, never see Friday more." And
while he spoke thus, the tears ran down his cheeks in
such a plentiful manner, that I had much ado to re-
frain from weeping also when Ibeheld the poor creao
ture's affection: so that I was forced to comfort him
in the best manner I could, which I did, by telling
him, if he was content to abide with me, I should be
ever willing to keep him.

After Friday's grief was somewhat abated, more
fully to convince me of his affection, he said, "0
master, me not care to be in my nation, leave you
here, me desire nation learn good, that's all :" mean-
ing, that his desire was for the conversion of that
barbarous people: and that he wished me to go with
him. And indeed, I began to desire to go also, from
my late discourse with Friday, about these seventeen
white bearded men, that had been driven upon the
barbarian coast; Whom I designed to join, as the only
means to further our escape. To which intent, my
man and I went to search for a proper tree to fell,
whereof we might make a perigua or canoe, to under-
take the voyage; and, indeed, we were not long in
finding one fit for our purpose, there being enough
of wood in the island to have built a fleet of large
vessels, but the thing we principally wanted, was, to
get one so near the water, that we might launch it
after it was finished, and not commit so horrid a mis-'
take as I had done once before.

Well, after a great search for what was best and
most convenient, Friday, at last, whose judgment in
such affairs was much superior to mine, pitches upon
a kind of wood the most fitting for it. But though my
man exceeded me in the knowledge of the most pro-
per tree, yet I showed him a much better and cleaner
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before; for
he was for burning the hollow or cavity of the tree.
in order to make this boat; but I then told him how
we might do with tools, teaching him at the same time
how to use them, which indeed he did very dexter-
ously; so that in a month's time we finished it, mak-
ing it very handsome, by cutting the outside in the
true shape of a boat. After this, it took us a full fort~
night before we could get her into the water, which
we did, as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers:
but when she was in, she would have carried twenty
men, with all the ease imaginable.

As I was very well pleased, you may be sure, at -
the launching of this man of war of mine, I was no
less amazed to behold with what dexterity my man
could manage her, turn- her, and paddle her along.
Well, Friday, said I, what do you think of it now?
Do you think this will carry us over? "Yes, master."
said he, " we venture over well, though great blow
wind." But my design was yet farther, which he was
insensible of; and that to make a mast and a sail, and
provide her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast
that was no diflicult thing at all to procure: so fixing
upon a straight young cedar tree, which I found near
the place, (great plenty of it abounding in the island,)
and setting Friday to 'cut it dowu, I gave him par-
ticular directions how to shape and order it ; but as

to the sail, that, I managed myself. I very well knew
, 10"
I had some old ones, or pieces of sails enough, which
had lain six and twenty years by me; but not being
careful to preserve; them, as thinking I should have
no occasion to use themany more, when I came to
look over them, I found "them almost all rotten, ex-
cept two; and with these I went to work, and after
a great deal of pains and awkward tedious stitching
for want of needles, at length I finished a three-cor-
nered ugly thing like that we call in England, a
shoulder-of-mutton-sail, to go with a boom at the
bottom, and a small sprit at the top, like those which
our long-boats use, and which I very well knew how
to manage, especially since it was like that which I
had in my patron's fishing-boat, when with my boy
Xury, I made my escape from the barbarian shore.
It was nearly two months, I think, before I com-
pleted this work, that is, the rigging, and fitting up
my mast and sails; and indeed they were nicely done,
having made a small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it,
to assist, if we should turn to the windward; and,
which was still more, I fixed a rudder to the stern of
her, to steer with; and though I was buta very in-
difi'erent ship-wright, yet, as I was sensible of the
great usefulness and absolute necessity of a thing like
this, I applied myself to it with such a constant ap-
plication, that at last I accomplished my design; but
what with the many dull contrivances I had about it,
and the failure of many things, it cost me as much
pains in ordering as in making the boat. Besides,
when all this was done, I had my man to teach what
belonged to its navigation 3 for though he very well
understood how to paddle a canoe alone, he was an
utter stranger to a sail and a rudder, and was amazed
when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea, by them, and how the sail jibed and filled this
way or that way, as "the course we sailed changedROBINSON causos. . ' .115

'After some time, and a little use, I made all these
things very familiar to him, so that he became an ex-
pert sailor, except in relatidn to the compass, and
that I could make him. understand but little of. But
as ithappened, there was seldom occasion for it,
there being but littie cloudy weather, and scarcely
any fog in those parts; the stars were always visible
in the night, and the share by day, except in the rai-
ny season, which confined every one to his habita-
tion. Thus entered into the seven and twentieth year
ofrny reign or captivity, which you please, f(the last
three of which, blessed with the company of my man
Friday, ought not to be reckoned ,) I kept the anni-
versary of my landing here with the same thankful-
ness to God for his tender mercies, as I did before ;
and certainly as I had great cause for thankful ac-
knowledgment for my deliverance at first, I had much
greater now for such singular and additional testimo-
nies of the care of Providence over me, in all my dis-
tresses of both body and mind. and the great hopes
[had of being effectually and speedily delivered; for
I had a strong impression upon my mind, that I
should not be another yearin this island But,'how-.
ever, I still continued on with my husbandry, dig-'
ging, planting, and fencing as usual: gathering and
curing my grapes, and doing all other things that i
were necessary

And now the rainy season beginning to come on.
obliged me to keep the longer within doors , but be-
fore this, I brought my new vessel into the. creek,
where I had landed my rafts, from the ship , so we .
waited for the months at November and December, '
'in which I designed to venture over the ocean.

No sooner did the seasonable weather begin .to
draw near, but so much was I elevated with this new .
designed adventure, that I daily prepared for the
voyage. The first thing that I thought on was, to lay
by a certain quantity of provisions, as a sufficient
store for such an expedition, intending in a week or
a fortnight's time to open the dock, and launch out
the boat for that purpose. But one morning, as I
was very busy upon something necessary for this oc-
casion, I called Friday to me, and bid him to go to
the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tor -
toise, a thing which we commonly had once a week,
as much upon account of the eggs, as for the sake of
the flesh. He had not been long gone, but he came
running back, asthough he was pursued for life, and
as it were flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the ground, or steps he set his feet on :
before I had time to inquire the reason of his precipi-
tation, he cries out. " O dear master, 0 sorrow l sor-
row! Bad! 0 bad !" Why, what's the matter, Fri-
day? said I. "O yonder, yonder," said he, " there
be one, two, three canoes! two, three !"

Surely (thought I,) there must be six, by my man's
way of reckoning; but on a stricter inquiry, I found
there were but three. Well, Friday, said I, don't be
terrified. I warrant you we will defend ourselves
against them,-'a--But though I comforted him in the
best manner I could, the poor creature trembled so,
that l scarcely knew what to do with him: " U, mas-
ter," said he, " they come look Friday, cut pieces
Friday, cut a me up."

Why, Friday, said I, they will eat me up as well
as you, and my danger is as great as your's. But
since it is so, we must resolve to fight for our lives.
What say you? Can you fight, Friday? " Yes,',.' said
he very faintly, "me shoot, me kill what I can, but
there come great many number." That's no matter,
saidI again, our guns will terrify those thatwe do
v

Roamson cnusox. 117

not kill; I am very willing to stand by you to the last .

drop of my blood.
Now, tell me, if you will do the like by me, and

obey my "orders in whatsoever I command ? Friday
then answered, " 0 master, me lose life for you, me
die when you bid die." Thus concluding all ques
tions concerning his fidelity, I ordered him to take
the two quling-piecos, which we'always carried, and
load them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol
bullets; then I took four muskets and loaded them
with two slugs, and five small bullets each; charging
my two pistols each with a brace, I hung my great
sword, as customary, naked to my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet, as a most excellent weapon for
defence.

Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill, to see what, I could
discover; and I perceived very soon, by my glass,
that there were one and twenty savages, three pri-
soners, and three canoes, and their chief concern
seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon three not
human bodies, a thing which by this time I ha ob-
served was very common with them. Upon which!
called to Friday; and showing him a great tree, that
was just at the corner of the wood, near which they
were, I ordered him to repair thither, and bring me
word, if he could plainly perceive their actions;
accordingly he did as I commanded him, and dine
back with this. melancholy story, that they were
all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their
prisoners ; and that another lay bound upon the '
sand, it little distance from them, whom they designed
for their next sacrifice ; and this he told me, was not
one of their nation, but one of those very bearded
' men, who was driven by a storm into their country,.
and whom he had so often spokento me about. You
may be sure, that, upon hearing this, my soul was
ready to sink within me; when ascending up into a
tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, :1 white man, who
lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands tied
with flags or things resembling rushes, beingcovered
with clothes, and seeming to be an European. From ,
the tree where I took this prospect, I perceived
another tree, and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to them than where I was, which by taking a
small circle round, I might come at undiscovered,
and then I should be within half a shot of these'de-
vourers. I therefore got behind some bushes, which
held all the way till I came to the other tree; and
thenIascended to a little rising ground, not above
eighteen yards distance, and there I had a full ~ view
of these creatures, and could perceive all their ac-
tions.

Such a sight did then appear, as obliged me not to
lose a moment's time. Noless than nineteen of these
dreadful wret'ches sat upon the ground, close huddled
together, expressing all the delight imaginable at so
barbarous an entertainment ; and they had just sent
the other twu to murder this poor unhappy Christian,
and bring him limb by limb to their fire; for they
were then just going to untie the bands from his feet.
Hereupon, immediately turning to my man, Now,
Friday, said I, mind what I say, fail in nothing, but
do exactly as you see me do. All which he promis-
ing to perform, I set down one of my muskets, and
the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the same by his; and with the other musket I took
my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like;
are you ready, said I; " Yes, master," said be, why
then fire at them said I ; and at that very moment I
gave fire likewise. __ ,

I only killed one and wounded two; but my man

1' 53N

Mysore reading die bibLe to ht: mam. Fridav
Friday, taking his aim much better than I, killed two,
and wounded three. You maybe sure they were
in a dreadful consternation, at such an unexpected
disaster; and those who had yet escaped our pene-
trating shot, immediately jumped upon their feet,
but were in such a confusion, that they knew not
which way to run or look; not knowing from whence
their destruction came. W'e threw down our pieces,
and took up others, giving a second dreadful volley;
but as they were only loaded with swan-shot, or
small pistol bullets, we perceived only two of them
fall, though many were wounded, who ran yelling and
screaming about like mad creatures. Now, Friday,
said I, lay down your piece, and take up the musket,
and follow me. He did so with great courage, when
showing ourselves to the savages, we gave a great
shout, and made directly to the poor victim, who
Would have been sacrificed, had not our first fire
obliged the butchers, with three others, to jump into
a canoe. By my order, Friday fired at them, at
which shot I thought he had killed them all, by rea-
son of their falling to the bottom of the boat; how-
ever he killed two, and mortally wounded a third.
In the mean time I cut the flags that tied the hands
and feet of the poor creature, and lifting him up,
asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was?
he answered me in Latin, "Christianusz" but so
very weak and faint, that he could scarcely stand or
speak. And I next asked him, what countryman he
Was? He said "Espaniola," and then uttered all
.the thankfulness imaginable for his deliverance.
Signior, (said I, with as much Spanish as I was mas-
ter of,) let us talk afterwards, but fight now; here,
take this sword and pistol, and do what you can.
And indeed he did so with such courage and intre-
pidity, thathe cut two of them to pieces in an instant.
I ordered Friday to run for the guns we had lea at
the tree, which he brought to me with great swift-
ness, and then I gave him' my musket, while I loaded
the rest. But now there happened a fierce encounter
between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who
made at him with one their wooden swords; and
though the former was as brave as could be ex-
pected, having twice wounded his enemy in the
head; yet being weak and faint, the Indian had
thrown him upon the ground, and \vas wresting my
sword out of his hand, which the Spaniard very
wisely quitting,'drew out his pistol, and shot him
through the body before I could come near him,
' though I was running to his assistance. As to Fri-
day, he pursued the flying wretches with his hatchet,
despatching three, but the rest were two nimble for
him. The Spaniard taking one of the fowling-pieces,
wounded two, who running into the wood, Friday
pursued and killed; but the other, notwithstanding
his wounds, plunged himself into the sea, and swam
to those who were left in the canoe, which with one
wounded, were all that escaped out of one and
twenty.

The savages in the canoe worked very hard to get
out of our reach, and Friday was as eager in pursu-
ing them: and, indeed, I was no less anxious about
their escape, lest after the news had been carried to
their people, they should return in multitudes, and
destroy us. So being resolved to, pursue them, I
jumped into one of their canoes, and bid Friday fol-
low me; but no sooner was I in, than, to my sur-
prise, I found another poor creature, bound hand and
foot for the slaughter, just as the Spaniard had been,
with very little life in him. Immediately I unbound
him, and would have helped him up; but he could;
neither stand nor speak, but groaned so piteonaly,
as thinking he was unbound in order to_be slain.
Hereupon I bid Friday speak to him, and tell him of
his deliverance; when pulling out my bottle, I made
the poor wretch drink a little, which, with the joyful
neWs he had received, so revived his heart, that he
sat up in the boat. As soon as Friday, began to beat
him speak. and look more fully in his face, it would
have moved any one to tears to perceive his uncom-
mon transports of joy; for he kissed, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his Pace and head, then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature: so that'it was a great
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell
me what was the matter with him; but when he came
to the liberty of his speech, at last he told me it was
his father. '

Here, indeed, I was infinitely moved to see that
dutiful and tender affection this poor savage had to
his aged parent. He would sit down by him in the
boat, open his breast, and hold his father's head close
to his bosom, half an hour together, to cherish him: -
then he took his arms and ankles, which were stiff
and numbed with binding, and chafed and rubbed
them with his hands; by" which means, perceiving
what the case was, I gave him some rum, which
proved of great benefit to him. -

While We were busy in this action, the savages
had gotten almost out of sight ;- and happy_it was we
did not pursue them: for' there arose from the north-
West, such a violent storm, which continued all night_
'ong, that I could not suppose otherwise, but that
they were all' drowned. After this, I called Friday
tome, and asked him, if he had 'given hisfathe: any
bread? He shook his head, and said, " None, no:
one bit, mo eat a up ali;" so I gave him a cake of
bread out of a little pouch I carried for this end. I
likewise gave him two or three bunches of raisins
for his father.

Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was be-
witchcd, with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight as it were in an instant; but, at
his return, I perceived him slacken his pace, because
he had something in his hand. And this I found to
be, as he approached nearer, an earthen jug with some
water for his father, with two more cakes of bread.
which he delivered into my hands. Being very thirs-
ty myself, I than]; some of the uater, ofbwhich when
his lather had drank sufficiently, it mo1e revived his
spirits than all the rum I had given him.

I then called Friday to me, and ordered him to
carry one of the cakes, and some water to the Spa-
niard, who was reposing himself upon a green place
under the shade of a tree, but so weak, that though
he exerted himself, he could not stand upon his feet.
'Upon which, I ordered Friday to rub and bathe his
ank'les with rum, as.he did his father's. But every
minute he was employed in this, he would cast his
eyes towards the boat, where he left his father sit-
ting; who suddenly disappearing, he flew like light-
ning to him, and finding he only laid himself down
to ease his limbs, he returned back to-me presently,
and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help
him, and lead him to the boat in order to be conveyed
to my dwelling, where I would take care of him.
Upon which, Friday took him upon his back, and so
carried him to the canoe, settintr him close by his fa-
ther; and presently stc ppi My out again, launched the
boat oh, and paddled it alumr the shore faster than I
could walk, though the wind blew ve1y hard too;
all-ll having brought them sale to the creelt,a way he
w: s to fetch thee other canoe, which he b1ought to

"1'..5,

ROBINSON causorz. 123

the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; then
wafting me over, he took our new guests out of the
boat; but so weak were they, that I was forced to
make a kind of a hand-barrow: and when I came to
my castle, not being willing to make an entrance in-
to my wall, we made them a handsome tent, covered
with old sails, and boughs of trees, making two good
beds of rice straw, with blankets to lie upon and
cover them. Thus, like an absolute king, over sub-
iects who owed their lives to me, I thought myself
very considerable.

To get provisions for my poor weak subjects, I
ordered Friday to kill me a yearling goat; which
when he had done, I cut off the hinder quarters, and
chopping it into small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and rice into the broth. This I car-
ried into their tent, set a table, dined with them, and
encouraged them. Friday was my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who spoke
the language of the savages pretty well. After din-
ner, I ordered.Friday to fetch home all our arms
from the field of battle, and the next day to bury the
dead bodies, which he did accordingly. And now I
made Friday inquire of his father. whether he thought
those savages had escaped the late storm in their
canoe, and if so, whether they would not return with.
a force too great for .us to resist? He answered, that
he thought it impossible that they could outlive the
. storm: or if they were driven southwardly, they
would come to a land where they would as certainly
be devoured, as if they were drowned in the sea.
And suppose they had attained their own country,
the strangeness of their fatal and bloody attack would

make them tell their people that the rest of them _

,were killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand; '

ha

    
 

K 'il'

;0f man, but by two heavenly spirits (meaning Fridgys :
and me,) who were sent from above to destroy them.
And this, he said, he knew, because he heard 'them
say the same to one another. And indeed he was in
the right on't; for I have heard since, that these four
men gave out, that whoever went to that enchanted
island would be destroyed by fire from the gods. 253' 4
No canoes appearing some time after, as I expectu
ed, my apprehensions ceased; instead of which my
former thoughts of a-voyage took place, especially
when Friday's father assured me I should have good.-
usage in his nation. As to the Spaniard, he told uie
that sixteen more of his countrymen, and Portuguese.
who had been shipwrecked, made their escape thither;
that though they were in union with the savages,
yet they were very miserable for want of provisions
and other necessaries. When I asked him about the
particulars of his voyage, he answered, that their
ship was bound from Rio de la Plata to the Havana;
that when the ship was lost only five men perished
in the ocean; the rest having saved themselves in
the boat, were now landed on the main continent.
And what do they intend to do there? said I. He
replied, they had concerted measures to escape by
building a vessel, but that they had neither tools nor
provisions, so that all their designs came to nothing.
Supposing (said 1,) I should make a proposal, and in-
vite them here, would they not carry me prisoner to
New Spain? He answered no; for he knew them to
be such honest men, as would scorn to act with such
inhuman baseness to their deliverer: that if I pleased,
he and the old savage would go over to them, tall!
with them about it, and bring me an answer :>> that
they should all swear fidelity to me as their leader,
upon the holy sacrament; and, for his part, he would
not only do the same, but stand by me' to the last
drop of his blood, should there be occasiotn "
These solemn assurances made me resolve to grant
them relief, and to send these two over for that pur-
pose; but when every thing was ready, the Spaniard'
raisedtan objection, which carried a great deal of
weighijin it: " You know, Sir, said he, that having
been-some time with you, I cannot but be sensible
thatyour stock of rice and card may be sufficient,
perhaps, for us at present, but not for them, should
they come over presently, much less to victual a ves-
sel for an intended voyage. And therefore, my ad-

' vice is, to wait another harvest, and in the mean
time, cultivate and improve some more land, where-
by we may have plenty of provisions, in order to
execute our design."

This advice of the Spaniard I approved ofextreme-
ly; and so satisfied was I of his fidelity, that I es-
teemed him ever after. And thus we all four went
to work upon some more land, and against seed-time,
we had gotten so much cured and trimmed up, as
was suflicient to sow twenty-two bushels of barley
on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was in short all
the seed we had to spare. As we were four in num-
ber, and by this time all in good health, We feared
not an hundred of Indians, should they venture to
attack us; and while the corn was growing, I pitched
upon some trees, fit to build usga. large vessel, in
case the Spaniards came over; which being marked,
I ordered Friday and hisfather to cut them dowu,
appointing the Spaniard, who was now my privy
counsellor, to oversee and direct the worli. I like-
wise increased my flocks of goats, by shooting the ,
wild dams, and bringing home their kids to my sis '
closure; nor did I neglect the grape season, bdt'
cured them as usual, though I had such a Quantity".

. new, as would have filled eighty barrels with raisins ' \- "

' And thus all of us being employed, they' in work- ' 4;;

\
ing, and I in providing for them, till harvest came,
God Almighty blessed the increase of it so much,
that from twenty-two bushels oi barley, we thrashed
out two hundred and twenty, and the like quantity
of rice, sufficient to victual a ship fit to carry-me and
all the Spaniards to any part of America. _

Thus the principal objection being answered, by a
sufficient stock of provisions, I sent my two ambas
sadors over to the main land, with a regal authority
to administer the oaths of allegiance and fidelity,
and have an instrument signed under their hands,
though I never asked whether they had pen, ink, or
paper; when giving each of them a musket with
eight charges of powder and ball, and provisions
enough for eight days, they sailed away with a fair
gale, on a day when the moon was at full. .

Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my head, but
impatient for their return, I laid me down to sleep one
morning, when a strange accident happened, which was
ushered in by my man's coming running to me, and
calling aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are
come." Upon which, not dreaming of any danger,
out I jumped from my bed, put on my clothes, and
hurried through my little grove; when looking to-
wards the sea, I perceived a boat, about a league and,
a half distant, standing in for the shore, with a fair
wind. I beheld they did not come from the side
where the land lay on, but from the southmost end
of the island. So these being none of the people we
wanted, I ordered Friday to lie still, till such time as
I came down from the mountain, which, with my
ladder, I now ascended, in order! to discover more
fully' what they were: and now, with the help of my
perspective glass, I plainly perceived an English
ship, which I concluded it to be, by the fashion of its
long boat; and which filled me with such uncommon ' z
transports ofJoy, that I cannot tell how to describe;
and yet some secret doubts hung about me, proceed-
ing from I know not what cause, as though I had
reason to be on my guard.

Not long it was, before I perceived the boat to ap-
proach the shore, as though they looked for a place
where they might conveniently land; and at last they
ran their boat on the shore upon the beach, about
half a mile distant; which proved so much the hap-
pier for me, since. had they come into the creek,
they had landed just at my door, and might not only
have forced me out of my castle, but plundered me of
all I had in the world. Now I was fully convinced
they were all Englishmen, three of whom were un-
armed and bound; when immediately, the first four
or five leaped on shore, and took those three out'of '
the boat as prisoners, one of whom I could perceive
used the most passionate gestures of entreaty, afflic-
tion, and despair, while the'others in a less degree
showed abundance of concern.

Not knowing the meaning of this, I beckoned to
Friday, who was below, to ascend the mountain, and
likewise view this sight. " 0 master," said he to me,
" you see English mans eat prisoners as well as sa-
vage mans." And do you think they will eat them.
Friday? said I. " Yes," said Friday. " they eata all
up." No, no, said 1, Friday, I am much more con-
cerned lest they murder them; but as for eating them
up, that I am sure they will never do.

And now I not only lamented my misfortune in not
having the Spaniard and Savage with me, but also
that I could not come within shot of them unperceiv-
ed, (they having no fire-arms among them,) and save
these three men, whom I thought they were going to
kill with their swords. But some comfort it waste
Inc, that I-perceiveil they were set at liberty to go
where they pleased, the rascally seamen scattering
about as though they had a mind to see the place;
and so long did the negligently ramble, that the tide
had ebbed so low, as to leave the boat aground. Nor
were the two men that were in her more circumspect:
for having drunk a little too much liquor, they fell
fast asleep: but one of them waking before the other,
and perceiving the boat too fast aground for his
strength to move it, he hallooed out to the rest, who
made all possible expedition to come to him; but as
Providence ordered it, all their force was ineffectual
to launch her, when I could hear them speak to one
another. " Why let her alone, Jack, can't ye, she'll
float next tide :" by which words I was fully convinc-
ed they were my own countrymen. I this while lay
very quiet, as being fully sensible it could be no less
than ten hours before the boat would be afloat, and
then it would be so dark, that they could not easily
perceive me, by which means I should he at more
liberty to hear their talk, and observe all their mo-
tions; not but thatI prepared for my defence: yet as
I had another sort of enemy to combat with, I acted
with more caution. I took two fusees on my shoulder,
and gave Friday three muskets; besides my formida-
ble goat-skin, and monstrous cap, made me look as
fierce and terrible as Hercules of old, especially when
two pistols were stuck in my belt, and my naked
sword was hanging by my side.

The three poor distressed creatures, too anxious to
get any repose, were, however, seated under the
shade of a great tree, about a quarter of a mile from
me. -

Upon which, without any more ado, I approached
towards them, with my than following behind me,
and. before I was perceived, I called aloud to them
in Spanish. what are ye gentlemen?
At these words they started up in great confusion,
when they beheld the strange figure I made; thev
returned no answer, but seemed as if they would fly
from me: Gentlemen, (said I, in English,) don't be
afraid, perhaps you have a friend nearer than you
expect. " He must be from heaven," said one of
them, gravely pulling off his hat, " for we are past
all help in this world." All help is from heaven,
said I, but sir, as I have perceived every action be-
tween you and these brutes since your landing, only
inform me how to assist you, and I will do it to the
utmost of my power.

"Am I talking with God or man i" said he, in melt-
ing tears. "Are you of human kind, or an angel?"
Sir, said I, my poor habit will tell you I am a
man, and an Englishman, willing to assist you, hav-
ing but this servant only, here are arms and am-
munition; tell freely your condition, can we save
you? "The story." said he, "is toolong to relate, since
our butchers are so near: but, Sir. I was master of
that ship, my men have mutinied, and it is as a favour
they have put my mate, this passenger, and me, on
shorewithout murdering us, though we expect no--
thing put perishing here. Are your enemies gone?
said I. No, replied he (pointing to a thicket,) there
they lie, while my heart trembles, lest, having seen
and heard us, they should murder us all. Have
they firearms? said I, They have but two pieces,
said he, one of which is left in the boat. He also
told me, there were two enormous villains amongst
them, that were the authors of this mutiny, who if
they were killed or seized, the rest might be induced
to return to their obedience.

When he had given me all the satisfaction I could
desire, I gave him and his two companions'each of
them a gun, with powder and ban sufficient, and fir-
ing myself, killed one of the Captain's enemies, and
wounded the other, who ratgerly called for assist-
ance; but the Captain, (who had reserved his piece.)
coming up to him, '- Sit-r211," said he, " tis too late
to call for assistance, )ou should rather cry to God
to pardon your villainy :" and so knocked him down
with the stock oi his gun: three others were also
slightly wounded. who,a at my approach, cried out
for mercy. This the Captain granted, upon con-
dition that they would swear to be true to him in
recovering the ship, which they solemnly did: how-
ever, I obliged the Captain to keep them bound.
After which I sent Friday and the Captain's mate to
secure the boat, and bring away the ears and sail;
when the men, seeing their late distressed Captain,
now their conqueror, submitted to be bound also.
And then it was, that having more liberty, I related _
the adventures of my whoie life, which lie heard
with a serious attention. After this, I carried him
and his two companions into my little fortified castle,
showed them all my conveniences, and, when this
was over, we began to consider about 10m rinintr the
ship :he said that there were twent) -si\ hands on
board who knowing their lit es 1'. ere torfeited by th 0
law, for conspirac'x and mutiny, were so very hard-
ened, that it would be danirerous for our small com-
pany to attach them. 'Ihis 11 as a reasonable infer-
ence, indeed; but something we must resolve on.
and immediately put in execution: we therefore
heaved the boat upon the beach so hinh, that she
could not shoot of" at high \ ater mark, and biolte a
hole in her not easy to be stopped; so that all the
sinnals they gave for the boat to come on board were
In vain. This obliged them to send another boat
ashore, with ten men armed, whose faces the Captain
plainly 'lescried. the boatswain being the chief of-
ficer; but he said there were three honest lads
among them, who were forced into the conspiracy.
Hereupon, I gave him fresh courage, (for I had per-
ceived he was in concern,) in the mean time while
securing our prisoners, except two, whom we took
to our assistance, we thought ourselves able enough
to endure a battle. When. the sailors landed, and
beheld their boat in that condition, they not only
hallooed, but fired, for their companions to hear, yet
they received no answer. This struck them with
horror and amazement, thinking their companions
were murdered, they made as if they Would return
to the ship. I could perceive the Captain's counte-
nance change at this, till, of a sudden, three men were
ordered to look after the boat, while the other seven
.eapt on shore, in order to search for their companions:
and, indeed, they came to the brow of the hill, near
my ancient castle, from whence they could see to a
great distance in the woods, and there shouting and
hallooing till tired and weary, they at length seated
themselves under a spreading tree. My opinion
was, that nothing could be done till night, when I
might use some artifice to get them all out ofthe boat:
but of a sudden they started up, and made towards
the sea-side; hereupon I ordered Friday and the
Captain's mate to go over the creek, and halloo as
loud as they could, and so decoying them into the
woods, come round to me again. And this, indeed,
had good effect; for they followed the noise, till
coming westward to the creek, they called for their
boat to carry them over, and taking one of the men
out of her left two to look after her, having fastened
her to the stamp of a little tree on the shore. Here-
upon immediately the Captain and our party passing
the creek, out of their sight, we surprised them both,
by the Captain's knocking down one and ordering
the other to surrender upon pain of death, and who,
being the honestest of them all, sincerely joined with
us. By this time it was pretty late; when the rest
returning to their boat, which they found aground
in the creek, the tide out, and the men gone, they
ran about wringing their hands, crying it was an en-
chanted island, and that they should all be murder-
ed hy spirits or devils. My men would willingly
have fallen upon them, but I would not agree to haz-
ard any of our party. But to be more certain, Friday
and the Captain crawled upon their hands and feet,
as near as possible; and when the boatswain ap-
proached in sight, so eager was the Captain, that he
fired and killed him on the spot: Friday wounded the
next man, and a third ran away. Hereupon I ad-
vanced with my whole army; and it being dark, I
ordered the man we had surprised in the boat, to
call them by their names, and to parley with them.
Accordingly he called out aloud, "Tom Smith, Tom
Smith !" He answered, " Who's that '!" " Robin-
son!" answered the other. " For God's sake, Tom,
surrender immediately, or you're all dead men."
" Who must we surrender to 2" says Smith. "To
our Captain and a large force here, who have taken
me prisoner, wounded Will Fyre, and killed the
boatswain." "Snall we have quarter then l" said he.
Hereupon the Captain calls out, "You, Smith, you
know my voice, surrender immediately, and you
shall have your lives granted, except \Vill Atkins."
Herenpon Atkins cries out, "What have I done,
Captain, more than the rest, who have been as bad
as me ?" but that was a lie, for he was the person
that laid hold of him, and bound him. However, he
was ordered to submit to the governor's mercy, for
such was I called. And so laying down their arms,
We bound them all, and seized on their boat.
After this, the Captain expostulated with them,
telling them that the governor was an Englishman,
who might execute them there; but he thought they
would be sent to England. Hereupon they implored
the Captain to intercede .for their lives, and begged
they might not be sent to England. This answered
our'project for seizmg the Shlp. For, after sending
them, fast bound, to the care, I sent the Captain to
treat with them in the governor's name, offering
them pardon if they would assist in recovering the
ship. Upon which, they all promised to stand by
him till the last drop of their blood ; and 'whoever
acted treacherously should be hanged in chains upon
the beach. They were all released on these assur-
ances: and then the Captain repaired to the other
boat, making his passenger Captain of her, and gave
him four men wellarmed ; while himselfl, his mate,
and five more, went in the other boat. By midnight
they came within call of the ship, when the Captain
ordered Robinson to hail her, and tell them that
with great difficulty they had found the men at last.
But while they were discoursing. the Captain, his
mate, and the rest entered. and knocked down the
second mate, and carpenter, secured those that were
upon the deck, by putting them under hatches, while
the other boat's crew entered and secured the fore.
castle; they then broke into the round-house, wnere
the mate, after some resistance, shot the pirate Cap-
tain through the head, upon which all the rest yielded
themselves prisoners. And thus the ship being re-
covered, the joyful signal was fired, which I heard
with the greatest joy imaginable : nor was it long
before he brought the ship to an anchor at the Creek's
month, where coming to me unawares. " There,"
sayshe. "my dearest friend and deliverer, there is

your ship. and we are your servants :" a comfort so 'l3! ur- my savanna" or

unspeakable, as made me swoon in hisarms, whfle,
with gratitude to heaven, we were tenderly embracing
each other. _ ' _ . j . ' '
Nothing new 'remaincd, but to consult what 'we
should do with the prisoners, whom he thought it
was net safe to take on board. Hereupon, concert-I
ing with the Captain, I dressed "m self in one of his
suits, and sending for them, told em, that-as I was'
_ going to leave the island with all my people, if they
would tarry there, their lives shou d be spared ; it
not, they should be hanged at the first port they
came to. They agreed to stay. Hereupon I told
them my whole story, charging them to 'be kind to
the Spaniards that were expected, gave them 'all my
arms, and informing them of every thing necessary
for their subsistence, I, and my many Friday, went on
board. ' But the next morning two of the men came
swimming to the ship's side, desiring the Captain to
take them on board, though he hanged them after-
wards, complaining mightily how barbaronsly the
others used them. Upon which I prevailedwith the
Captain to take them in ; and having rebeived sofi'
punishment, they proved more honest for the {mm-cl
And so I bid farewell to this'island, carrying along
with me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat-
skin cap; setting aailDecember 12, 1687, after tWen-
'ty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days mi.
dence; and ianding in England, June 11, 1688,'a'fter
' five and thirty ears absence from my own country"
which rendereg me altogether a stranger there,

PINKS.9.23m"? '-

'..',3.3

if I'M.