THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

Or Yonx, Mum-1m.

ILLUSTRATED "TH!

ONE HUNDRED AND TEN WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

 

BOSTON:
DE WOLFE, FISKE & 00., PUBLISI--IERS.
365 wasumo'mN STREETCONTENTS.

 

SECTION I.
anl'a Family, aux--His Elopcmeut from his Pamnts. -......

SECTION II.
First Adventures at Sea. and Experience of a. Maritime Lita--Vow to

Gaines................mm..-"....................................................... 5

SECTION II I.
Robinsm's Captivity u; Sauce--Wye with Xury.-- Ari-in! u the muila. ll

SECTION IV.

fie settles in the Brazil: as a "witch--Makes moth" Voyage and in ship.
wrecked

PAOB
1

 

............ mum--m... ......... . ........ Onon'... ....... 23

SECTION V.

Robinson finds him" in 3 Dim [slant--Prawns I Stud: 0! Arlicivs
hum the Wreck--Comtructc him limitation .............. a:

 

SECTION VI.

Carries all his Riches. Provisions. 84:. into his Habltntiom--Dmrlnnm of
Soundercomolmy Reflections ..................... .......... ......................... 00

SECTION VII.

Bobtmt's Mode of Reckoning Tima--Dllliculties Rising from want of
Took--119mm his Habitation.-- ....... ....................................... . 48

SECTION VIII.

Robinson's JOIII'mInn-DENIS of his Domafio Economy and Contrlvaneu.
--8ho<<-k of In Enabqunke .....................................>>.............................. 48

SECTION 11.
Robinson obtains more Articles from the Wreck--ms mm and mm". as

SECTION X.

His Wm.---Ein_0omfion in Reading the Scriptures--Makes In Ext-ur-
liou into the Interior of the lam--Poems his " Bower" ..... ................ 51iv comm-rs.

man
SE CTI 0N XI.
Robinson makes :1 Tour lo Explore hi. Island............................................ 65

SECTION XII.
no returns to his Cum--His Agricultural Labours and Success .................. 69

SECTION XIII.
His Manufnclun- of Pottery. and Contrivance for baking Bread.................. 74

SECTION XIV.

Mediates his Esmpe from tho Island.-Builds a Cancer-Failure of his
Schema--Resignation to his Conditiou.--Makes himself a new Dress ...... 78

SECTION XV.

He makes a smaller Canoe, In which l-c attempts to cruise round the Island.
---Bis perilous situation at SPA-H0. returns home...................................... 80

SECTION XVI. .
Be rears n Flock of Goats--His Diary--His Domestic habits and Style of
Living--Increasing Prosperity ..-"... so

SECTION XVII.
Unexpwted Alarm and Cause for Apprelmnsion.-- Be Fox-lilies his Abodei-- 6

SECTION XVIII.

Precautions arm-inst Sumrisc.--R.obinson disnovum that. his Is and has been
visited by Cannibals.... . ........ .......... 99

SECTION XIX.
Robinson discovers a Care which sorVL-s him as n ill-treat against the

SaVagr:s...4...... ...... ....... ............. 108

SEC'l'I 0N XX
Anomer Visit of the Savages--Robinson sees them dancing.--Pcrcoivos the
Wreck of a \"usol......... ........ . ......... ............ . .............. .......... 108

SECTION XXI .

He visits thr- Wrerk and obtains many Stores from it.--Aga.in thinks of
quitting the lslsnd.----Has aremarkahle Dream ............ ........ ........ ...... .. 112

S PCTION XXII.

Robinson rescues one of their Captiws iron: the Savages. whom he names
Friday, and makes his Servant .................. ............... ..... 116

SECTION XXIII.

Robinson instructs and civilizes his man Priday--Endoavonra to give him
an Idea 0! Christianity"-.. .. .i-........... 124

 

 

u
SECTION XXIV.
no:

Robinson and Friday build a Canoe to carry them to Friday's country.--
Their Scheme prevented by the arrival of a Party of Savanna"... ....... 131

SECTION XXV.

Robinson releases a Spaniard--Friday discovers his Father.--Am-ommodn-
tion provided- {or these new Guests--who arc alterwards sent to liberate
the other Spaniards--Ankle! of In English Vessel .......................>>......... 137

' SECTION XXVI.

Robinsor discoters himself to the English Captain--Assists him in reduclng
his mutlnous Gram--who submit to him ...... 152

SECTION XXVII.

Atkins entmats the Captain to spare his Life-The letter recovers his Vessel
from the Mutiuwrs.---And Robinson leaves the Island 163

0 SECTION XXVIII.

Robinson goes to Lisbon. where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders
him an Account of his Property in the Emile--Sets out on his Return to
England by Land............ ........ . .................. ........... 171

SECTION XXIX.

Friday's Encounter with n Been--Robinson and his fellow Tnvellers
attacked by a Flock of Wolves>> His Arrangement of his main, and
Marriage after his Return to England...

SECTION XXX.

no is seized with a Desire to revisit his Mend--Loses his Wife-is tempted
to go to Seem--Takes out n Cargo for hrs Colony um..- 15']

 

................. 179

 

 

SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew of a French Vessel that hsdenusht Fire... 190

SECTION XXXII.
Rolims the Crew of a Bristol Ship, who are starving-Arrives at his

Island ...... ................................ ..... .mu...................................................196

SECTION XXXIII.

Robinson and Friday so ashore--The latter meets with his Father--Account
of what passed on the Island utter Robinson's quitting it ...... 199

SECTION XXXIV.

The Account eontinned.--Quurrels between the Englishmen.--A Battle
between two Parties of Savages who visit the Island--Fresh Mutiny
among the Settlers .........................,m............................................. -..... I).

lvi contours.

SECTION XXXV.

PAFR
The mntinnus Enzlishmen are dismissed from the Island.--mzturn with '

several captive Savages.--Takc the Females mi Wives 2:29

SECTION XXXVI.

Several Savages killed; the Krinainder leavu the Month--A Fleet. of them
afterward: anivm--A general Battle--The Savages no overcome, and
tranquillity restored ..... . .............. ........ 233

SECTION XXXVII;
Robinson learns from the Spaniardx the DilllcultiI-s they had to cuwuntor.--
no furnishes the People with Tools. Ste.>> The French Ecclwinslic............ 246
SECTION XXXVIII.
Encounter with Sanka at Sea.~Friday's lk-ath.---- Robinson finds his former
Partner in tile [Zinnia--Sails for the Baa: Indies :25"
SliC'l'l ON XXXIX.

The Vessel touches at Madagmmn--Afllm with the Natives,~who are ma's-
menu] by the Crew--Thu Sailors aftern'an'ls refuse to sail with Rnhi mu.
who is left by his Nephew. the Captain, in Bengal ........... . .................... 293

 

SECTION XL.

Meets with an English Merchant. with whom he makes some trading
Voyagnzs.--'!'h\-y are mistaken for Pirates.--Vanquish their Pursm~rs.-
Voym to (Ilium--Reconm', with the Cruzhin-('.him-si-.--Islaud of lv'ornm.~a
--Gulf of Nonquin.----Apnrehonsiou of falling into the Hands of the Dutch. 26!

SECTION XLI.

Journey to Firkin--Robinson joins 3 Caravan proceeding in Mmcow.--Rm-
centres with the Tartan ............................... ........ . ...... 284

SECTION XLII.

Route through Musccvy.--Robinson and a Scots Men-Inuit clam-y an Idol.
---The whole Caravan in great Peril from the Pufiuit of the Pagans.--
Tobolski.--Dvpartnrc {rum Ti)I}hI~kl.-Ell('ltl|lllnr with 3 Triton ol Rnhhcis
In the Death--Robiusuu teat-km Archangel, and finally amvcs in England :53BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE

OF THE

AUTHOR OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

DANIEL Daron, the author of numerous works of fiction, among
which the " History of the Plague " has attained a certain popularity,
and " Robinson Crusoe " a lasting and world-wide renown, was born
in the parish of St. Giles, Cri plegate, in the city of London, in the
year 1661. He was educal at a dissent' school at Newington
Green; his father, astrict dissenter, intending rim for the priesthood.
But this project seems to have been abandoned, for some unknown
season, and young Daniel became a tradesmen, like his father. Some--
thinn of the roving, restless nature, so admirabl described in
" Rdhinson Crusoe," seems to have been inherent in fee himself;
for his life is full of strange vicissitudes, and he a pears continually
involved in trouble on one account or another. Viie find him taking
part in the most ill-considered and unfertunate enterprise of his
time, the Rebellion of Monmouth, and narrowly escaping what the
cynical spirit of the time dubbed " a merry o-round at rope fair,"
namely, death by strangulation, for the 0 once. In after-life he
was hotly embroiled in the political quarrels of his age. At one
time he was compelled to stand in the pillory, as a punishment for
writinn a well-timed and thoughtful pamphlet on "The shortest wa
with the Dissentcrs." The )opulace, sympathizin with and -
miring him, crowned the pil cry with flowers, an converted his
penance into a triumph; but this could not relieve him from the

urdcn of the heavy fine he was compelled to pay, and which ham-
pered him for years afterwards. At another time he suffered along
unprisoumeul, obtaining his release after twb years by the interven-
tion of Harley, Earl of Oxford. But he had not the art of advancing
his fortunes, though his evident merit procured him em loyment in
several matters of eonse nence; and, at the end of his ll) life, he
was in poverty and new eet. He died in his native paris of St.
Giles, Cripplegate, Apri 24, 1781, at the age of seventy, and was
interred in Bunhill Fields burial-ground. -

The political works of Defoe are numerous, and had a sensible
effect on the times in which he lived. A thorou h Eashshman, out-
spoken, vehement, aud uncompromisi , he s 10" out lustily
against abuses and wrong-doing wherever to found them; and in many
rcsliects his ideas were greatly in advance of his time. Some of his
schemes may have been Visionary and impracticable; but it is pleasant
to hear his sturdy voice raised, and to see his nervous pen wielded so
unliinchingly in advocacy of his nrineiples, and to mark hownnvaryingly
those principles point to moderation, melcy and the low of kindness.
His Review, which he conducted for nine years, may certainly be
considered as the pioneer of the Spec/aim, il'al/er, Guardian, and
other collections of essays which enriched the. literature of the first
half of the eighteenth century.

llis political writings, however, have mostly passed away with the
truublous times which gave them birth, and to which their interest
was confined. It was as a writer of fiction that Defoe was to
achieve more lasting fame, Two, at. least, of his works have a value
and a significance iiite irrespective of time and place,--the one as a
record of a national calamity, the other as a wonderful piece of ima-
'inary autobiography. These two books are the "History of the
fungi": of 1665," and the " Adventures of Robinson Crusoe."

.-\t the time when the scourge was deciuiatinw London, Daniel
Defoe was only four years old. It could not, ticrel'ore, be from
memory that be so vividly described its incidents; though, doubtless,
in his youth he heard man)v an anecdote about the pestilence and its
ravages, from men of mat urcr years, on whose inenioricsit must have
made an indelible impression. But his chief talent lay in the
management. of detail and accurate description; and it is ditlicult to
imagine, as we read the graphic record of the state of the terror-
strickcn, desolate city, that we have not before us the real daily
notes of at.- actual indwellcr in the city of the laguc. In Robinson
Crusoe the. Same marvellous ower is shown, nit in a much hiuher
degree. With matehless 5k" 1, the doubts and sorrows, the shifts
and cxpedients, the little domestic triumphs and disappointments of
the ship-wrecked mariner in his solitart' home are put before the
reader in the very form most- ealculaled to enlist his interest and
sympathies. So thoroughly has the author identified himself with the
hereof his romance, that Defoe disappears, and it. is Robinson Crusoe
himself who becomes a living personality. and moves and speaks
before the reader, and becomes as clearly and distinctly personified
as any hero of real life.

The first edition of Robinson Crusoe was published in 1719. In
the century and a half that has since elapsed, hundreds of edi-
tions have aipcared in all European languages. Everywhere the
book has \rorlted its way; and as for the German version, " Robinson
dc. J angel-e" is chronicled as one of the greatest succches ot' the
eminent llanibttrgh lit-tn of Cuinpe and Co.

In the present volume, the original text, slightly shortened, has
been adhered to. The operation of modernizing the language, ne-
cessary, perhaps, in a scientific work, would have taken away one of
the chief charms from the narrative of the simple sailor, who is
therefore left to tell his tale in his own rough, pathetic, old-fashioned
way. The drawings are from an eminent German pencil, and apart
fil'lmn their artistic value, serve the purpose of thoroughly illustrating
t e text.
ROBINSON'S FAMILY, Era--ms ELOPEMENI FROM HIS PARENTS.

I WAS born in the year 1632, in the cit of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father ein a foreigner of Bremen,
named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hul . He got a ood estate
by merchandise, and leavin of his trade, lived afterwar at York '
from whence he had marrie my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after whom I was
so called, that is to say, Robinson Krentznaer; but, by the usual
corru tion of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call
ourse ves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of my second brother, I never
knew, any more than my father and mot er did know what was
become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. My
father, who was very aged, had given me a competent share of
loami ,as far as house education andacountry free school nerall
go, an designed me for the law; but I would be satis ed wit
nothinv but going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
ntrougl'y against the will, na , the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties an persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that pro nsion of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to efall me:

1 B
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
mornin into his chamber, where he was confined by the. gout, and
tcxpostn atcd very warmly with me upon this subject; he asked me
what reasons, more than a mere wandering inclination, I had for
leaving his house, and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raisinir my fortune, by application
and industry, with a life of case and casurei He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes, on one hand: or of superior fortunes, on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, aspiring to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me. or too far below me ; that mine was the middle state, or
what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found, by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human ha )piness; not armed to the miseries and hard-
shi s, the labour an sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind,
an not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of
the upper part of mankind : he told me, I might judge of the happi-
ness of this state by one thing, \'iz., that this was the state of hle
which all other pcoiilc envied ; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of bein" born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of two extremes, between the
mean and the rreat; that the wise man gave his testimony to this
as the just stan ardol' true felicity, when he prayed to have "neither
povert nor riches."

He adc me observe it, and I should alwnrs find, that the calami.
ties of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind;
but that the' middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
thoSed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who, bv vicious
living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, by hard labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insullicientdiet, on the other hand,
bring distem )CI'S upon themselves by the natural consequences of
their way of 'ving; that the middle station of life was calculated for
all kind of virtues, and all kind of cujoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, societv, all agreeable diversions, and
all desirable pleasures were the blessings attending the middle
station of tile. ; that this way men went- sileutly and smoothly throu h
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with t e
labours ol' the bands or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery
for dail bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob
the son of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the passion
of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly"venous or momson mason. a

tasting the sweets of living. without the bitter; feelin that they are
happy, and learning by every day's experience, to now it more
semi )ly.

After this he resscd me earnestly, and in the most afl'ectionate
manner, not to p ay the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born in seemed
to have rovided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my brea ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending
to me; and that if I was not very easy and ha py in the world, it.
must be my mere fate, or fault, that must hin or it; and that he
should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in \rarniiw me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt;
in a wow , that he would do very kind thin for me if I would
stay :ul settle at home as he directed; he to (1 me I had in elder
brother for an example, who had run inro the army, where e was
killed during the Low Country wars; that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist in my reeove .

I observed the tears run rdown his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed , and that, when he
spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was
so moved, that he broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was
so full, he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any
more, but to settle at home, according to my father's desire. But
alas! a few days were it all oli': and, in short, to prevent an of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after-I reso red
to run quite away from him. However,l did not act so hastily,
neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought heralittle pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anythinw with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give me his
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now e' htecn
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or c erk to
an attorney; that Iwas sure, i I did, would never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my master before my
time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to
let me make but one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did
not like it, I would go no more; and 1 would promise by a double
diligence, to recover the time I had lost.

This put my mother in a great passion: she told me she knew it
would he to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such a sub-
ject; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent

324- ADVZNTUEES 01' 30313501! 0111180].

to anything so much- for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing, after such a discourse as I had from
my father, and such kind and tender ex rcssions as she knew my
fniher had used: that for her art, she wo d not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I 3110 d never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as 1 have
heard atterwards, she reported all the discourse to him; and that
my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her With a sigh :
" That. boy mioht be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he \viil be the most miserable wretoh that ever was born ;
I cannot give consent to it."

 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose; though
in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of
settling to business, and frequently expostulating wit my father
and mother about their being so positively determined against what
they knew my inclinations rompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, whether I wont casually, and without any purpose of making
an elopement at that time, and one of my companions then goin
to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting me to go wit 1
then by the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., that it should
ecst me nothing for my passage, 1 consulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left
them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing,
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows. .
FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A mum LIFE.
VOYAGE 'IO GUINEA.

ON the lst September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any yo adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued anger, than mine. The ship had no
sooner got. out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise, in :1 most frightful manner; and as I had never been
at sea before, I was most inexyressibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind; I be n now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and
how justly Fives overtaken lzlthe judgment of Heaven, for wickedly
leaving my father's house. I the good counsels of my arents, my
father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now resh to my
mind; and m conscience, which was not yet come to the itch of
hardness to which it has been since, re'proaehed me with t e 0011-
tempt of advice, and the abandonment o my duty.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what
I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after;
but, such as it was, enough to shoot me then, who was but a yonn
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I expecte
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that eve time the
ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow oft 6 see, we
should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I made nmfilfy
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to s are .m ' e
this voyage, if ever I got my foot once on dry land, we d
directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again whigl:

10
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life; how easy, how
comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed
to tcmpcsls at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would,
like a true repenting rodigal, go home to m father.

These wise and so or thoughts continue during the storm, and
indeed sometime after; but the next day as the wind was abated,
and the sea. calmer, I begun to be a little inurcd to it. However, I
was very grave that day. being also a little sea-sick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm.
ing' fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and.
rose so the next morning; and havinglittlc or no wind, and a smooth
sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that I ever saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but
verv cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough
and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and pleasant in a
little time after.

 

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, " Well, Bob,"
clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I warrant
you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew a cap-
l'ull of wind ?"--" A cap-full, do you call it i?" said I; " 'twas a terrible
storm."--" A storm you fool P" replies he, " do you call that a storm!
Why, it was nothing at. all ; give us but a good ship, and sea-room,
and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; you are but
a. fresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us nmke a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. D'ye see what charming weather 'tis now 'r'"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in
one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.
1n a word, as the sea was returned to its smoothiess of surface and

v
settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of
my tho hts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowe up b t e sea forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returns , I entirely orgot the vows and promises I had
made in in distress.

The sixt day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads '
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had
made but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great
many ships from Newcastle came into the same roads, as a common
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had lain
four or five (is s, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a arbour, the anchorage d, and our ground tackle
very strouo, our men were unconcerne , and not in the least appre-
hensive of!3 danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as

ossible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode
orecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought, once or twice our
anchor had come ome; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and cables veered
out to the better end. '

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen themselves.
The master was vigilant in the business of preserving the ship; but.
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
it]? to himself several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be

lost; we shall be all undone -," and the like.

The storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and ex ccting every moment the ship would go to
the bottom. In the mi die of the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, " We have sprnno a leak !" another man said "there was
four foot water in the hold." Then all hands were called to the
puni . At that very word my heart as I thought, died within me,
and l fell backwards upon the side of m bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, an told me that I, who was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at
which I stirred u and went to the pump, and wor ed very heartily.
While this was oin , the master seeing some light colhers, who.
not able to ride out t e storm, were obli ed to slip and run away to
sea, and would not come near us, order us to fire a gun as animal8 mvsnruaes or nonmsox causes.

of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised,
that I thouwht the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing happened.
In a word, was so snr rised, that I fell down in n swoon. As this
was a time when every ody had his own life to think bf, no one
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man step ed
up to the pump, and thmstino me aside with his foot, let me in,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to
in se .

"We worked on; but the water increasin in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and trough the storm_ oegan
to abate alittle, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we
mioht run into a port;---so the master continued firing guns for help;
an alight ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat
lie near the ship 5 side; till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope
over our stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into the boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship {so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could ; and our
master promised them, that if the boat were stared upon shore, he
would make it good to their master; so partly rowing and artly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping tower the
shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship
when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the first time,
what was meant by aship founderint: in the sea. I must acknow-
ledge, I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was
sinking; for, from that moment, thev rather put me into the heat
than that I might be said to go in.. My heart was, as it were, dead
within me, partly with friht, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet iiefore me.

While we were in this condition, the men et labouring at the oar
to bring the boat near the shore, we could, see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a eat many
people running alonn the strand, to assist us when we 5 ould come
near; but we madclbut slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach it, till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the
shore falls oil to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the land
broke ofi' a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and,
though not without much difiiculty, got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the m "istrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by the gmrtlcildhr merchants and owner:
of ships; and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem of our

 

blessed Saviour'slparahle, had even killed the fatfcd calf for me; for,
hearing the ship went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I; the first time he spoke
to me after we were at Yarmouf-h, which was not till two or three
days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; I say the
first time he saw me, it ap cared his tone was altered, and, looking
very melancholy, and she ing his head, he asked me how I did,
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
fora trial, in order to go farther abroad. His father talked very
gravely to me; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; " and, young man," said he, "depend u n it, if
you do not 20 back, wherever you go, you will meet with not ring but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you." - '

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not; as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well as on the road, had many stru glee with myself what course of
life I should take, and whether I s ould go home or go to sea. As
to going home, shame opposed 31.: best motions that ofi'ered to my10 anvnnrnans or maruson cnosoe.

thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed
at. among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not in
father and mother only, but even everybody else. From whence
have often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
tenner of mankind is, esiecially of youth, to that reason which
ong ll to guide them in suc cases, viz.,that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for
which they ought justly to be esteemed fools; but are ashamed of
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Allrica ; or as the
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good com an in Lon-
don; I became acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been
on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again. He, takin a fancv to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at 1 lat time, and hearin me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, that if I would go t iat voyage
with him, I should be at no expensc; I should be his mcssmafc and
his companion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should have
all the advantage of it. the trade would admit_ and orhaps I might
meet with some cncour ocmcnt. I embraced the 0 er, and, cute mg
into strict friendship wilfii this captain, who was an honest and p ain-
dcziling man, I wcm. the voyage with him, and curried a small adventure
with me; which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the ca -
tain, I increased very considerably; for 1 carried about. forty poun a
in such tors and hides as the captain directed me to buy. This
forty pounds I mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with; and who I believe, got my
father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This was the only my e which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which owe to the intevrity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of mathematics and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand some things that were nccdful to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I
took delivht to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor anda merchant ; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, on
my return, almost three hundred pounds, and this fiiled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yet
even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calcnture bv the ex-
cessive heat of the. climutc; our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
ROBINSOK'S CAPTIVITY AT SMILES--ESCAPE WITH KEEN--ARRIVAL
AT THE BRAZILS.

I wns now set up for a Guinea. trader; and m friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I reso ved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest Voy "e that ever man made; for
thou h I did not carry uite a hun red ounds of my new- 'ncd
wealt 1, so that I had two undred pounds eft, and which I odgcd
with my friend's widow who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, viz.--our
ship, making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those Islands and the African shore, was surprised, in the
grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave chase
to us, with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainls'v come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship raving
twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and pomed in a broadside'
upon him, whroh made him sheer off again, after returni our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two hun red men
whom he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all
our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, be entered sixty menu on our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sai s and ti gin". We plied them
with small shot, half-pikes, owder~chests, an such like, and cleared
our decks of them twice. IIllowerer, to cut short this melancholy
art of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men
Billed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port helon ing to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so drea id as at first I appre-
hended; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his proper prize and made his slave, being youn and nimble;
and fit for his business. At this surprising change 0 my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable sieve, l was perfectly over.
whelmed; and now looked back upon or father's prophetic discourse
to me, that I should be miserable, an have none to relieve me.
which I thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that it could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
I was undone, without redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story. '

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes he'would take me with him when he went to sea
again, believing that It "'Ould, some time or other, be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba-
bility in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational;
for I had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me;
'no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Seolchman there but
myself; so that- l'or two years, though I often pleased myself with
the imagination, yet 1 never had the least encouraging prospect of
putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my libert
again into my head. My patron lying at home longer than usual,
without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftcner,
it" the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and go out into
the road a. fishing ; and as he always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and 1 proved
very dexterous in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league
from the shore, we lost si ht of it; and row" , we knew not
whither, or which way, we la cured all day, and al the next night,
and when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea,

 

instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least two

leagues from the shore; however, we got well in again, though with

a great deal of labour, and some danger, for the wind began to blow

Eretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very
ungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and having 1 'no by him the long-
boat of our English shi he had taken, he reso we?! he would not 1310
a fishing any more without a compass and some rovision; so e
ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an nglish slave, .10
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the longboat, hke
that of a barge, with a lace to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, an room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we called a leg-of-mutton
sail, and the boom 'ibbed over the to of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and llad in it room for im to lie, with a slave or two,
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor as he thought fit to drink, and particularly his bread,
nee, and cofi'ce.

We Event frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as level14 ADVENTURES or nonmsox causes.

most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happened that lie-had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction
in that place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and
had therefore sent on board the bout, overnight, 8. larger store of
yironsions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three
usees, With owdcr and shot, which were on board his ship, for that
they desioue some sport of fowling as well as fishin .
I got iiil things ready as he directed, and waited the next morning
with the boat- washed clean, her ensi and pendants our, and every-
thing to accommodate his guests: w en, by and by, my patron came

 

on hoard alone, and told me his guests had put off going, n on some
business that fell out, and ordered me, With a man an boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that
his friends Were to so at his house; and commanded, that as soon
as I had got some fish, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prep'ared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my
command; and my master being gone, I repaired to furnish myself,
not for a fishing business, but for a vogagc ; though I knew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should steer; for any
where, to get out of that place, was my way,

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to s oak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; or I told him we
must not presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the
heat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had heen there beforemvmrrunes or aosmsox causal. 15

for our master. I conveyed also 3 eat lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a undred-weight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles.
A nother trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ishmael, whom they call Muley, or Moley; so 1 called to
him; " Moley," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat, can
you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
alcamics (fowls like our curlews) for ourselves,and I know he keeps the
gunner's stores in the ski ."---"Yes," says he, " I will bring some ;"
and accordingly he broug t a great leathern pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot,
that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat; at the same time I found some (powder of my master's in
the great cabin, with which I filled one o the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, curing what was in it into another;
und thus furnished with every t 'ng needfnl, we sailed out of port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port, when we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from NN. E., which was contrary to or desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have m e the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the buy of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I
had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor: " This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of the boat, set the sails ; and as I
had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and then hrou ht
to, as if I would fish. Then giving the boy the hehn, I stepped or-
ward to where the Moor was, and I took him b surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clean over card into the see.
He rose imniediatel , for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, and to me he would go all the world over
with me. He swam so stro after the boat, that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetchino one of the fowhng-pieces,
1 presented it at hiin,_and told him, f had done him no hurt, and
if he would be quiet, I would do him none. " But," said I, " you
swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm - make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me end
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was gone, 1 turned to the boy, whom they ealled Xury,
and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me 1 Will make you
a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me
(that is, swear by Muhomet and his father's board), I mustthrow you.
into the sea. too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.

 

While I was in View of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that
they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailing on to the soul hward, to the
truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or
more merciless savages of human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening. I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the cast, that I might keep in with the shore; and having a
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quit sea, I made such sail,
that I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon,
"hen I made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and
fifty miles south of Sallce. quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's_.. .-

 

ADVENTURES 03 ROBINSON (2110803. 17

dominions, or indeed of any other king thereahout; for we saw no
eo ile.

p YIet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dread 'ul
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or 0 on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I
had; sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river;
I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swrm on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful horses of the barking, roaring,
and howling of wild creatures, of we kn "v not what kinds, that the
poor boy was read to die with fear, and be ed of me not to go on
snore till day. " ell, any," said I, "then will not; but it may be
we shall see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
" Then we may give them the shoot- un," says Xury, laughing. " make
them run awn . ' Such English ury spoke by conversing amonSS
us slaves. lgwever, I was glad to see the ho so cheerful, and
gave him a dram out of our patron's case of hott es to cheer him up.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our
little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for we slept. none; for in
two or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowinfl' and washing themselves, for the leasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such howlings and yelfings, that I never
indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frightened when we heard one of these creatqu
swimming towards our boat; and we could hear by his blowing that
he was a monstrous, huge and furious beast. Poor Zury cried to me
to wei h the anchor and row away. " No," says I, " Xury, we can slip
our ca le with a buoy to it, and go 06' to sea; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature within two
oars' length, which surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, and takin up my gun, fired at him; upon
which he immediawa tumc about, and swam to the shore
again.

It is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries
and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the noxse or re on of the un; a
thing, I believe, those creatures had never hear before. T '5 con-
vmced me there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that

coast; find how to venture on shore in the day, was another question
c
too; for 'to have. fallen into the hands of any (If the savages, had
been as had as to have fallen into the paw: ol housand tigers; at
least, we were equall apprehensive of t to danger of it. '
Be that as it wouh , we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not. a pint, left. in the boat; when and
where to get it. was the point. any stud. if 1 would let. lnm go on
shore with one of the 'ars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. i asked him why he would go; why 1 should
not, go, and he stay in the boat. The bar answered With so much

 

all'retion, that he made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go away.--" Well. Xurv," said I, " we
will both go; and if the wild mans come, we will kill them ; they shall
eat neither of us." So l gave Xury a new of rash bread to eat, and
n dram out. of our patron's ease of bolt es, which I mentioned before;
nml we hauled in the heat. as near the. shore. as we thought. was
proper, and so waded to shore, carrying nothing but. our arms, and
two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the heat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but the hey, seeing a low
)laee about. a mile up the Country, tumbled to it; and, by and by,
i saw him come running towards me. I thought. he was pursued by
some savage, or frightened hy some wild beast. and 1 therefore ran
forwards to help him ; hut. when l eaine nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that. he had
shot, like a hare, but different in colour and longer legs; however,
we were very glad of it, and it was ver) good meat; but. the great
joy that poor Xury emne with, was to tell me he had found good
water, ant seen no wild mans.
A:- I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd Islands also,
lay not far from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation, to find what. latitude we were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand 05 to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easily found some of these islands. But
mv hope was that if I stood along this coast till 1 came to the part
where. the English traded, 1 should lind some of their vessels upon
their usual design ot Irmle, ltmt would relieve and take us in.

It the best of my calculation, the place where I now was, must
be tint country which, lyin between the Emperor of Moroeeo's
dominions and the Negroesfiies waste. and uninhabited, except by
wild beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
smith, for fear of the. Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrmness; and, indeed both forsakin
it. because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, lco rds, an
other furious creatures which limbour there; so that the loors use
it for their hunting only, where the go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and, inditcd. for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw not hing but a waste, uninhabited
Country by day, and heard nothing but bowling: and touring of
wild beasts by night.

Once or twice, in tho day-time,.l thought I saw the Pico oi
Teueritl'e, being the top of the mountain 'l'cncritl'e, in the Canaries,
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds; the
sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first design, and keep along the shore.

After this st op we made on to the southward continually for ten
or twelvv days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate. very much, imd going no ofteucr into shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this, was to make the
river Gambia. or Senegal; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape
dc Verd, where l was in hopes to meet some European ship; and if
I did not, i knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands or erish among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, w rich sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or
to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and in a word
I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I
must meet some ship, or perish.

When I had ursnod this resolution about ten days longer,
[began to see hat the land was inhabited; and in two or three
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore. to
look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black and stark
naked. Iwas once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but
any was my better eonnsellor,and said tome, " No go, no gm; H31-

090 ADVENTURES 0! "03155024 CRUSOI.

ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them ; and I
found they ran along the shore by me a. good way. I observed
they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had a long?
slender stick, which Xttt'y said was a lance, and that they would
lllruw them a great way with good aim ; so I kept at a distance, but
talked to them by signs, as Well as I could, and particularly made
Signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some, meat ; upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country ; and
in less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieees of dry tlesh and some eorn, such as the produce of their
Country ; but we neither knew what. the one or the other was; how-
ever, we. were willing to accept it. But how to come at it. was our
next dispute, for Iwas not: tor venturing on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way elf till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.

We. made signs of thanks to them, flor we had nothing to make
them amends ; but. an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully; for while we were lying by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the sea ; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or iii rage, we
could not. tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange; bttt. I believe it was the latter, because, in the first place,
these ravenous creatures seldom appear but. in the ni rht; and, in the
second place we found the people terribly frightens , especially the
women. The man that. had the lance, or dart, did not. fly from them,
but. the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
(:01th for their dirersion; at. last, one of them began to come. nearer
our boat than Iat. first expected; but 1 lay ready for him, for 1 had
loaded my gun with all possihle expedition, and bade Xury load both
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot. him directly in the head; immediately he sunk down into the
water, but rose. instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
struggling for life, and so indeed he. was; he immediately made to
the shore ; but. bet ween the. wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the. water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible. to express the astonishment of these poor crea-
tures, at the. noise and tire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror;
but when they saw the creature. dead, and sank in the water, and
that. I made signs for them to come to the shore, they took heart
and came to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I
found him by his blood staining the water; and by the he] of a
rope, which I slung round him, and gaye the Negroes to ho , "I?
dragged him on shore, and found that it ers a must curious leo )er ,
spolted, and fine to an admirable de ee ; and the N egroes he d up
their hands with admiration, to thin what it was I had killed him
with.

The other creature, frightened with the flush of fire, and the noise
of Ihe gun, swnm on shore, and ran up directly to the. mountains
from whence they came; nor could I, at. that distance, know what
it was. 1 found quickly the Negroes were for eating the ilesh of this

 

creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
Were. very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him;
and though they had no knil'e, yet with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took oll' his skin as readily, and much more readil , than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some 0 the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely. and brought me a.
great deal more of their )l'thSiOnS, which, though I did not under-
stand, vet I accepted. i then made signs to them for some water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought. a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I
suppose, in the sun ; this they set down to me, as before, and I sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for eleven
days more, without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land
run a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four
or five leagues before me; and the sea bc' verfincalm, I kept a
large offing, to make this point. At length, oub' gthc oint, at
about two leagues l'rOm the land, Isaw plainly land on t e other
side, to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Can: do Verd, and those the islands, called, from
thence, Cape de Ver Islands. However, they were at a great dis-
tance, and I could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I
should be taken with a. gale of wind, I might reach neither.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin,
and sat me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the
my cried out, " Master, master, a shi with a sail l" and the foolish
boy was frightened out of his wits, tdnking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
got-ten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not onlyihe ship, but what she was, viz. that
it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way; but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, they
Supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost ; so they shortened
sail ; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in
French; but I understood none of them; but, at last, a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an linglislnnan, that 1 had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallce; they then bade me come on board, and
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexprcssible 'oy to me, which any one will believe, that
I was thus delivered, as {esteemed it, from such a miserable, and
almost hopeless condition as I was in; and I immediately oll'ered all
I had to the captain of the shi , as a return for my deliverance; but
he generously told me, he won d take nothing from me, but that all
I had should be delivered safe to me, when I came to the Brazils.
I will carry you thither in charity, and these things will help to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.
n SETTLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A ENTER--MAKES ANO'IHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SKIPWRECKED.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance, to a tittle : for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer
to touch anything I had: then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
nnwht have them, even so much as in three earthen jars. '

I'Vc had a very good vo age to the razils, and arrived m the Bay
de Todos los Santos, or Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two da s
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most nuserab e
of all conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I was now
to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember: he would take nothin of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's siin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the shi to
be punctually delivered to me; and what I was willing to sel , he
bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lung) of hees-wax,--for I had made candles of the rest ;
m a. word, I ma e about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of
all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call
it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of
planting and of making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
fived, and how they get rich suddenly, I resolved, if I'eould get I
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them: endeav-
ouring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and settlement; such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I prop0scd to myself to receive from England.

1 had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English
parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as

was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very soeiably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planned for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land be'nn to come into order; so that the third year we planned
some to niece, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes the next. year.

1 was, in some degree, settled in my measure for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there, in providing
his landing, and preparing for his vov e, near three months; when
tolling him what little stock I had lc t behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: " Scnlior luglcz," says be
(for so he always called me,) " if you will give. me letters, and a pro-
curation here in form to me, with orders to the person who had your
money in London, to send your effeets to Lisbon, to such persons
as 1 shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God Willing, at m return: but
smee human affairs are all subject to changes an disasters, I
would hare. you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and, it' it misearry, you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply." This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that. I could not. but be convinced it was the best. course I
could take ; so laccordingly prepared letters to the gentlcwomun
with whom I left. my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
ca lain, as he desired me.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out
other own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English
oods, such as the captain had written for, sent them directly to
im at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils: I

found means to sell them to a very treat advantage; so that I
might say, 1 had more than four times t to value of my first cargo,talks-c i-vi- '

 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 0317803. 85

and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bourvht
me a Negro slave, and a European servant also , 1 mean anot er
besides one whom the captain brought me from Lisbon.

Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and be 'nning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation,l ha not on]
learned the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had frequently given them an account of in
two voyages lo the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading wit
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for
trifles ---sueh as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like--not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elcphants' teeth,
&c., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but esreoially to that art which related to the buyi
.IVegroes; who was a trade, at t at time, not only not far entertfi
into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the assieutos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed from
Elie public; so that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively

car.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters
of my acquamtanee, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of them came to me the next momin , and told me the had been
musmg very much upon what I ha discoursed with t em of the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind tr
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as
it was a trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a word, the
question was, whether I would goes their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they oll'ered
me that 1 should have an equal share of the Negroes, without pro
viding any part of the stock.

I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
oli'er, than I could restrain mv first ramblin designs. In a word, I
told them I would go with all in heart, if t icy would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it as I
should direct, if 1 miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en-
tered into writings or covenants to do so, in case of my death;
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, m
universal heir; but obliginv him to dis ose of my elfects as I he
directed in my will; one-half of the produce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.

The ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things
done gs by agreement, by partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evrl hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day
rifiht years that I went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the
:0 el to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.

We passed the Line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our
last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati.
tude, when a. violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our
lmowled c; it began from the south-east, came about to the north.
west, an then settled in the north-east; from whence it blow in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive, and, seudding away before it, let it carry us
whithersoevcr fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
lsiivaillowcd up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their

ves.

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master
made an observation as well as he could. He found that he had got
upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the Oronoeo, commonly called the
Great River; and as the ship was leaky and very much disabled he
was for going back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that ; and 100 ' over the charts of the
sea coast of America with him, we conclude there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Carribee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbymvnurunss or lemma causes. 27

doe-; which by keeping off to sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or
ulf of Mexico, we might easily erform, as we hoped, in about
fteen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make Our voyage to
the coast of Atrica without some assistance, both to our ship and
ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered awn N. W.

by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where hoped
for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for in the
latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we stood a greater chance
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own
countr .
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men
early in the morning, cried out, " Land !" and we had no sooner run out
of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world
we were, than the ship struck u n a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sen roke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.

The ship navin thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast
for us to expect er getting off, we were in a dreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving out lives as
well as we could. We hada boat at Our stern just before the storm,
but she was first stared by dashin against the ship's rudder, and, inthe
next place, she broke away, an either sunk, or was driven of to
sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her oll' into the sea was a. doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pliecfi every minute, and some told us she was actually broken

re .

In dds distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
ship's side; and getting all into her, we let go, and committed our-
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea;
for though the storm was abated considerably, et the sea went
dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be we called den wild
zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern
of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it
took us with such fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separa-
tingi us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us time
bar ly to say, " 0 God I" for we were all swallowed up in a
moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet- I could not
deliver myself from the waves :30 as to draw my breath, till that
wave having driven me, or rather carried inc, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but half dead with the Water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the main land than I expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found
it was impOssihle to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after Inc as
high as a great. hill, and as furiOiis as an uni-my which Iliad no
means or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myselfupon the water, ifl could; and so, by swim.
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot mysclt'towards the shore, if
possible ; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would
carry me a great. way towards the shore when it came on, might not
carry me back again with it when it. gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep in its own body ; and I could feel myself carried
with a mi rhtv force and swit'tucss towards the shore, a very great'
way; but held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward
with all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, 1 found
my head and hands shoot out. above the surface of the water; and
though it was not. two seconds of time that I could keep myself so,
yet it. relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. l was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding--,- the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few .unmcnts, to recover breath,
and till the water went from me, and ti en took to my heels, and ran
with what strength 1 had farther towards the shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouriugr
in after me again ; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves an
earned forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well ninh been fatal to me ; for the
sea, having hurried me along, as before, anded me, or rather dashed
me, aeainst a piece of rock, and that. with such force, that. it left me
senseless, and indeed hei less, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow, taking; my side and ireast, beat the breath, as it were, uite
out of my body ; and had it returned again immediately, I must ave
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves; and, seeing I should again be covered with the,
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of rock, and so to hold my
breath, if \ossible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves were
not so big as the first, being nearer land, 1 held my hold till theg
.!
2
t
E
i
,.
5

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBLNSON CBUSOE. 29

wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the next- run I took,
I got to the main land! where, to In great comfort, I clamhered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat mo own upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water

I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and
thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was,
some minutes before, scarcer any room to hope. I believe it is im-
possible to express, to the lite, what the ecstasics and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the grave ;and

 

I did not wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malefaetor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and 'ust going to be
turned ofi', and has a. reprieve brought to him-- say, 1 do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let blood that very
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, liftin up my hands, and my whole
being, as I may say, wra ped up in t e contemplation of my deliver-
ance ; making a thousand) gestures and motions, which I cannot des-
cribe; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself; -for,, as for them, I
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of

their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
3* -
I cast my eyes to the stranded "vessel--when the breach and froth
of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it. lay so far elf-and
" considered, Lord 1 how was it possible 1 could get on shore?"

 

_I began to look around me to see what kind of a place I was
in, and what- was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that. in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did I see any pros met before me, but that
of perishing with hunger. or being devoured by wild beasts; and that
winch was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against any other creatures that might desire to kill me for
theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe, and a little tobacco. Night coming upon me, I began, with a.

envy heart, to consider what. would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country.

All the remedy that ofl'ered to my thoughts,- was, to get up into a
thick bushy tree. I walked about a fnrlnng from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water; which I did, to my great joy ; and
having drunk, and put a. little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and vetting up into it, endeavoured to
place myself so as that, if I shoult fall asleep, I might not fall; and

aving cut me a stick, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and
having7 been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and 516 t as com-
fortable as, I believe, few could have done in-my con 'tion; and
found myself much refreshed.
ROBINSeN FINDS HIMSELF IN A DESOLA'I'B ISLAND--P8060338 A

STOCK 01' ARTICLES 1'30)! THE "'KECK--CONSTBUCTS ms
HABITATION'.

WHEN I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea. did not- ruge and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it.
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, {and the
shi seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that
at east 1 might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my a artment in the tree, I looked about
me agam, and the first. thi I ound was the boat; which lay, as
the wind and sea had tossed not up, upon the land, about two miles

'ou my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to

have got to' her; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being; more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence.

A httle after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could came within a quarter of a mile of the ship:
and here i found a fresh renewing of ntv grief ; for I saw evident ,
that if we had kept on board, we had heen all safe ; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and had not been so miserable as to be
left entirelv destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my e 'es again; but as there was little relief"
in that, I resolved, if possilile, to get to the ship: so I pulled off
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water: but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater
to know how to get on board: for as she lay around, and high out
of the water, there was nothing in my reach to ay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down by the fore-
ehaius so low. as that with great dillieulty I got hold of it, and b
the help of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship. llcre
found that the ship was bilged, and had a great deal of water in her
hold ; but that she la}r so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her uarter was free, and
all that was in that part was dry ; for you may c sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and.
first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
oy the water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room, and filled in ' pockets with biscuit, and ate it. as I went
about other things, for f had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I
had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
New I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had,
and this extremity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three lar e spars of wood, and a spare topmast or
two in the ship; I resolve to fall to work with these, and flung as
many overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one
with a rape, that they might not drive away. When this was done,
1 went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it. very well, but that it was not
able to bear any rcat weight, the pieces being too light: so I went
to work, and wit. the carpenter's saw I cut a. spare to mast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a wreat de of labour
and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with neCessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strono' enough to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what toiload it with, and how to preserve what I
laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering
this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with provisions, viz. bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried oats' flesh (which we
lived much upon), and a little remainder of uuropean corn, which
had been laid by for some fowls which we had brought to sea. with
us, but the l'owls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great. disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, l fouml
Several CilSCS of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters; and, in all, live or six ahons of rack. 'l'hcse
[stowed hy themselves, there being no nee to put them into the
chests, nor any room for them. While I was doinn this, I found
the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the mortilica-
tion to see my cont, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left. on shore,
upon the sand, swim away; as for my breaches, which were only
linen, and open-knead, I swam on board in them, and my stockings.
However, this put. me upon rummaging for clothes, of which 1 found
enough, but. took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore: and it was aft-er long searching that I found the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed emery useful prize to me, and
much more valuahle than a ship-darling of gold would have been
At that time. I got. it. down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what. it
contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were
two very good feuding-pieces in the real. cabin, and two pistols;
these I secured first, with some pow (,r-horns and a small bag of
shot, and two old rusty swords. 1 know there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but. knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but. with much search 1 found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. These two I got to my ruft, with
the arms. And now] thought. myself pretty well freighted, and
began to think how I should _., rt. to shore with them, having neither
sail, oar, nor rudder; and the lt'flsl. capful of wind would have over~
set. all my navigation. I hoped to find some creek or river which I
might make use of as a port. to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it. was; there appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set
into it; so I guided my raft, as well as I could, to get into the
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have suffered a second
shipwreck, which, if I had, I think it verily would have broken my
m-art; for, knowing not-hing,r of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end of it upon a shoal, and, not bring aground at the other end,

. D34 ADVENTURES 111' mmu'sox (7111151111.

1111111111111 11111 a 111th H1111 1111 111\ r 111111 111111 slipped 1111' towardsl 11 11'.
111111 11 11 11115 111 ' , 111111 511 1".1ll11 111 111111 1111'. 11.111121 1ll1l111y uhnosL,
l1\' .x'vHing; 111.1.11l1'111_:11i11.~'1 1l11' 1'l11'51.~' 111 k1'111 111C111 111111011 places:
l111t "1111111 11111 11111151 1111' 1l1c .'1 121111111] 111_\ >11'1'n1_1-1h: neither (111151.
l> $1i1' 11:1111 11111 1111\111r1' 1 1111s 111.1111 111111l:11L1'1111 1111101111815 \1'i1'l111ll
1111' 11112111, I 5101111 111 15111 1111111111'1' 110111 1111111111 l11111r.i11\1l111l1 lime
1111' rising; of 1111'. \1'1111'1 111111111111 inc 11 li11l1' 111111'0 11111111 11 l11\1'l' _. 111.11
11 lilll1' 1'11'11'1, 1111'\1'.11111' $1111 rising, 111v1'11l'1 1l11111111l 111:11i11, 111111 I
1111115. 111'1' 1111' \1'1111 ll1(' 011 .1' I had' 11110 1111: (111111111111, 111111 1l11-11 11111111}:
up l11rl11'r I 111 l1'111:1.)11 1'111111d1111'scll' in 1111'. 111011111 01 11 litilui 1'i1'111',
\111l1 l1111d 011 110111 9.11115 , 111111 :1 strong 11111111111, or 1.1l1: 1'111111i1111' up.
I 1111111011 011 lmih >il1l1's 1'111'11 proper place 11) 2131 1'11 al1111'1.' 1'111' l was
11111 "1111115: 101111 111i1'1n 11111 1131.111 111) H10 1111:. i'1 111111". 1.11
5111' 51111111.. ' :11 11. s1'a, 111111 1110111111111 resolved 1.11 1..111' 11151111 115 1101111
the (1111151115 1 mull.

At l111f.1'1l1 I s]1i11"1l .1 WHO ('111'11 on 1.l1('1'if_1'l11 sl1111'1 r11 1l11' 110111.111
which, 11'i1l1 1:111:11 1111111 111111 1lilii1'11l1_\',I 911111011 111111111, 111111 :11 1:151
1:111 511 1111111 113 11.1..1z1cl1i11g 1.1111111111111111 111_\'11111'. l ('011ld 1l11'11st
inn-1111111111 111; l1111.l1.1'1'c I had lil 1 111 have di11'111'1l 11111115 cargo 11110
11111 51111 211111111, 111 111111 shore l\i111.1' 1111'111' s11'1',p that is 111 5111',
sl11pi11".1l11'1'1' \1'15 1111 1111101: I1) l11i11l. but \1 hole 1111(1 0111101 1m 1111111:
if it 11111 1111 51111111 111111 11 111' so high, and ihc 11111111 sink l11\11'.1'. 11s
110101',(' 111111 it 11111111 11111111111501 m\' ('11rr__:0'1g11i11. All Hm? 1 (11111111 110
was to 112111 111] Ihi' 111l1' "as m. [lie hi1vl11'st l1m111i11g'1l111 1.111 \11111 1111,
1111111111111 11111--.-l1-'11. 11 1111111 1l1c 511111 of 11 12151 10 11111 sl1111'1' 111111111
11111 [11001: 11' 111111111111 11l1icl1 l vxpcctcil 1l1C \\.11('1' 1.1 onld 1l11w111'1'r -
111111 s11 11 11111. .-\:4 1111111 11s 1 found "11101 (11111113111, 1111 1111' 11111 armv
.11111111 11111111 111 111111-31 1 1l1r11s1 1101' 11111111 111111 11.11 piece 01' nrruuml
1111-1 1111'r11 1.151111111 11r 11111111"<1l l11.r. l1\_' slickinn' 11111110 broken 11.115
111111 1111' PS1'.011111l 1.1111' (111 one side 111'11r 01111 1'1111. and one on 1l111 Ulln' 1'
sulr' 111-111 1111 111l1111'111lzz'1111l thus 1 l11\'1ill the water (:l1l1111l1u1ny,
11ml '111'1 111v r111'.1 11.1111 all 1111' (1111111 5111'1' 1111 Show.

Mv 11('\1 "01k was 10 \'l?\\' 11111 (1111111111. 11ml 511111 11 1111111111 {11.1013
1111'111\'l1.1l111.1111111111111 when- 111 511111'1111'1'1111115. 111 scenic tlmn 11'11m
1111;111:111 111i1.:'111 l1 1911011 \\ I11 11' l "113 1 \1'1 km" 11111:"l11'll1cr
11111 11111. c11111i111',111 01' 1111 1111 island; \1'1111111'1'1' inl111l1il1'1l. 111' 111.1 in-

111111111111; wh1"'1hcr 1n 11.111301 of \1il1l 111111sls.11r 11111. l"h1111 \\ 11$ 11
11111.1101. 1111111113 11111110110111 1111'. which 10501111 1'1"1\' $111.01) 111111 hij'h
11111111'1111:l1 51'111111'11 111 01"(1111111 5111111' 11111111 hills, which 1111' 115 111 11
ridge 1111111 i1,1'1111'111\1'11rd. I 111011 11111. 111111 111 1111' 111.111111.1--pi('C1-.'. 111111
0111-01 11111 pistols, 111111 11 horn 111'111111'1111': 111111 111115 111.1111011 11.111 111d
for discovery 11p 10 the 11111 01' H1111 hill; \1l111r1. 111101 I had, 111111
1111 .1t 1111111111 11111] 1111110111113 9111111111) 1l)C 11111 1 511111111 111111.111my
great. 111111011011, viz 111111 1 11118111 1111 island ('111'11'0111111111111'11) \.'11y
will1 1111: son no 111111l 10 he 511.911 excom some rock". 11111111 1111' a
1111 :11 \1 .n' 1111". 111111 1111) <<m: 1ll 1511111115. l1'ss than this, \1h1cl1 1213' about
1111 cc l1'.1'f'uun 1.11 1111 "est.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw
good reason to believe, uninhabited, except. by wild beasts, of whom,
however, 1 saw none; yet I saw abundance of t'owls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what. not. At my coming back, 1 shot. at a great bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since the
Creation of the world: I had no sooner tired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many
sorts, making a confused screaming. and crying, every one according
to his usual note; but. not. one of them of any kind that. I knew.
As for the creature 1 killed, I took it. to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it. had no talons or claws more
than common. Its tlesh was r-arrion, and lit. for nothing.

I now began to consider that l miuln yet get a great. many things
out of the ship, which would be usetul to me. and particularly some
of the rigging and sails, and sueh other things as might come to
land; and I resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that. the first stOrm that blew must
iteceSsni-ily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got. everything out of the shi that. I could get. Then
I called a council, that is to say, in my t oughts, whether I should
take hack the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went. from my but; having nothing on but a
flit-(prom! shirt, 3 pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
eel.

I got, on board the. ship as before, and pre ared a second raft;
and having had experience of the first, I neit ier made this so un-
wivldy, nor loaded it so hard. but yet I brought away several things
wry useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two
or three hugs of nails and 5 films, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of hatehets; and. above al, that most. usetut thint7 called a grind-
stone. All these I secured together, with several filings belonging
to the gunner; particularly, two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven mnskels, and another fowliiigpiece, with
some small quantity of powder more ; a large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet. lead; but this last- was so heavy, I could
not hoist. '1 up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men's clot hes that I could find, and a spare fore--top-
suil, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.

Having: got my second cargo on shore--though I was fain to open
the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too
heavy, being large. casks--I went to work to make a little tent, with
the sails, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into

n 236 AD'v'EXTL'RlfiS or nomxsox cntsorz.

this tent I brought every thing Ihal' I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun; and l. piled all the. empty chests and tasks up in a circle
round the 1cm, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
man or beast.

When I had done this, I hloeked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
j list at. my llt'ml, and my gun at length by me, 1 went to bed for the
first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and
heavy; for the. night before I had slept little, and had laboured very
hard all (lav. as well to felt-h all those things from tlldf ship, as to get:
them on shore. I

 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that over was laid
up, I believe, for one man; but I was not. saiislivd still; for while
the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I could; so every day, at low water, I went
on board, and brought away something or other: but particularly
the third time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a
piCCe of spare canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all
the sails first and last; only that I was thin to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more
useful to be sails. but. as mere canvass only.

But that which emnfortetl me still more was. that,last of all, after

I" fl.- ,

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 37

I had made fire or six such voyages as these, and thought. I had
nulliiuf"r more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling
with; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshcad 01' brand, and
three large runlcts of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of line (tour; this was surprising to me, because l had given over
expect-int: any more provisions, except. what was spoiled by the
water. soon emptied the hogshcnd of that bread, and wrapped it
up, parcel by parcel. in means of the sails, which I cur. out; and, in
a word, 1 got all this safe on shore also.

The next day I made another voyage, and now having plundered
the ship of what was portable and lit. to hand out, I began with the
cables, and culling the great. cable inm pirccs such as I could move,
I not two cables and a huwscr on shore, with all the iron work i
coidd gel ; and having: cut down the spriisail-yard, and the mizcn~
yard, and everything I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it wuh
all those heavy goods, and came away: but my good luck began now
to have me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that
after Iwas entered the little cove, who're 1 had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
ovorset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it last, especially the iron, which I
expected would have been of great use to me: however, when the
tide was out, 1 got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was l'ain to go for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me very much. After this I went
( ror day on board, and brought. away what I could get.

I rad been new thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven times
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one

:iirot' hands could well be supposed ca able to bring; though I
ii-licve verily, had the calm weather hel , I should have brought
away the whole shi , piece by piece, but. preparing: the twelfth tune,

to go on hoard,I mind the wind began to use: however, at low
water, I went on board; and though I thought I had rununnged the
cabin so cifcctunlly, as that nothing could be found, yet. I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one iair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds
in mom-v, some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some. cold, and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight- of this money; " 0 drug!" I or
clanncd, " what. art then good for? Thou art not worth to me, no,
not the taking off the ground; one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; c'cn remain where thou
art, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth
saving." However, upon second thoughts, 1 took it away; and

wrapping all this in a piece of canvass, began to think of making
4 .38 ADVEN'ltittES OF nomxsott causes.

another raft ; but. while I was preparing this, I found the shy over-
Cast, and the wind began to riso, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
a fresh gale from the shore. lt presently occurred to me,that.1t
was in vain to pretend to make a raft. with the wind ofi' shore ; and
that. it. was my business to be gone before. the tide of tlood began, or
otherwise 1 misrht. not. be able to reach the. shore at all. Accordingly
I let. myself down into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
diiiieuity enough, partly with the weight. of the things 1 had about
NW, and partly-the roughness of the. water: for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

 

But Twas got. home to my little tent, where l lay, with all my
wealth about me very secure. ll. blew very hard all that night. and
in the morning, when I looked mu, behold no more ship vas to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz., that 1 had lost. no time, nor abated no
dilieeuee, to get. everything out of her, that. could be. useful to me,
and that. indeed, there was little left. in her that l was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more. thoughts of the ship, or of anything
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wreck; as,
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were
of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about. seeuriug myself
against either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the method how to
do this. and what kind of dwelling to make, whether l should make
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth ; and. in short, 1 resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not he
improper to give an aeeouut of.

I soon found the place I was in 'as not for my settlement, par-
tieularly because it was upon a low. moorish ground, near the sea,:5.-
art
"ii
a
"'5

v".

 

 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOL. ~39

and I believed it would not be wholesome; and more particularly
because there was no fresh \i'fllt'l' near it: so I resolved to find a
more healthy and convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would
be pro er for me; first, air and fresh water, 1 just now mentioned :
second y, shelter from the heat of the sun: thirdly, security from
ravenous. creatures, whether men or beasts: fourthly, a view to the
son, that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advan~
tagc for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish all my
exptctation yet. ' _

n search for a. place proper for this. I found 11 little plain on the
side of a rising hill, wlmse trout towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing., could come down upon me from the
top. 0n the side of this rock, there was a hollow place, worn a
little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not
really any care, or way into the rock, at all.

On the flat. of the , rcen, just before this hollow place, I resolved
to pitch my tent. ' his lain was not above one hundred yards
broad, and about twice as ong, and lay like a green before my door;
and, at. the end of it, descended irregularly every way down into the
low ground by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill;
so that. it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it come to a
W. and by S. sun or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near
the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle. before the hollow
place, which took in about. ten yards in its semi-diameter from
the1 rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its begiinling and
em mg,

In this half-circle l pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest.
end heinw out of the ground, about five feet and at half, and
sharpened.) on the top. The two rows did not stand above six inches
from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placin" other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them. about two feet and a half high, like a spur to
a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast-
conld get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labour, especially to out. the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a
slmrt ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when [was in, l
liflcd over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified,
as i thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it
appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution against
the enemies that I apprehended danger from.SEC-TU 3-}; \'L

CARRI'ES ALT. HTS RICHIE, PROVISIONS, ETC. INTO l! S ILU'J'I'ATION--
DREAHEXESS Hi" SULITL'Dbl--CONSOLATURY iil.l'i.l.C-'l'l().\'$.

Ix'ro this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, i (-arriod nllrny
rlches, all my provisions, :mnnnnition, and stores, of which you hum
the account above; and 1 made a large tom, which, to preserve no
f mm the rains, that. in one art of the your am very violent there, I
made double, \'iz., one small er tom within, and one lnrgcr [out above
it, and covered the uppermost. with a large iii)'pPSlllllll, which 1 had
saved among the sails.

And new 1 lug: no more for awhile in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and
belonged to the maze of the shi .

I nto this tent. I brought al my provisions, and everything that
would poll by the wet; and having thus cncloscd all my goods, I
made up the (railrnncc, which till now I had left open, and SO passed
and rcpassed, as 1 said, by a short holder.

When I had dmw this I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringinn' all the. earth and SiOHl'S that I dug down out through my
tam, Ilaid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ground within about. a foot and a half; and thus I
made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a collar
to my house. It cost me much labour and many days, beforcallnonmsos onusou. 41

these things were brought. to perfection; and therefore, I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up of my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened,
and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the elfect of
it. I was not so much surprised with the lightning as I was with
a thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself : O my powder! My very heart sunk within me when I thought,
that. at one htast all my powder might be destroyed; on which not.
my defence only, lntt the providing me food, as I thought, entirely
depended. l was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder taken tire, I should never have known who
had hurt me.

Such impressions did this make upon me, that after the storm was
Over, I laul aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
applied n'tysell' to make bags and boxes to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever
might come, it. might not all take fire at- oncc; and to keep it so
apart, that it should not be possible to make one part. tire another.
I finished this work in about. a fortnight; and I think my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided into not less than a hundred pureels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that ; so I placed
it in my m-w cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the
rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking vet" carefully where I laid it.

In the interval 01' time while this was doing, 1 went out at least.
once every day with my gun. One day I kitled a site-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved tne
heartily; but. when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by hcr,
till I came and took her up; attd not only so, but when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which l laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up
lame; but it would not eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it
mySeIt'. These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread especially) as
much as possibly 1 could.

And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent; life, such perhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; when
the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head : for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude

of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Line.
4'., lZCTlON VII.

ROBINSON'S MODE OF REt'KON'l'NG TIME--DIFFICULTIES ARISING FRO."
WANT Ol" TOOLS -lll'} .tltltANGES lllS HABITATION.

AFTER I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from tho
working,r days: but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife into a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, I set
it. up on the shore where I first landed, viva, " l' ezunc on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of this square
post. I out every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch
'as as long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one: and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
But it happened, that among the many things which I brought out
of the ship, in the several my tires which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things it? less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found some time after, in rummaging thc chests :
as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books
of navigation; all of which I huddled together, Whether I might
want them or no: also I found three very trood Bibles, which came to
me in my cargo from Englandand which I had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three
popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which 1 carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminent histor I ma have occasion to say some-
thing, in its place; for I carried 0th t re cats with me; and as for
the dog he Jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
Vunt to me for many years: [wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me, I only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pens, ink, and paper, and l husbaudcd them to tnc
utmost; and I shall show that while my ink lasted,I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not; for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand.
ing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much dillicull. .

This want of tools mull: every work I did go on heavily: and it
was nearly a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale.
or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, which were as
heavy as 1 could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing
in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and brinrrmg home one of those posts,
and a third in drivinv it into the ground; for which purpose, I got a
heavy peace of wood3 at first, but at last bethought me of one of the
iron crows; which, however,though I found it answer, made driving
these osts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need {have been concerned at the tediousncss of an thing I had
to do, seeing. I had time enough to do it in; nor ha 1 any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food; which I did more or
less, every day.

1 have already described my habitation, which was a tent under
the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables;
but I might. now rather call it a wall, for Iraised a kind of well
against it of turfs. about two feet thick on the omsidc: and after
some time (I think it was-a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; winch I found,
at some times of the year, very violent.

l have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale,
and into the care which I had made behind me. But I must ob-
serve, too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no room to
turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work further
into the earth; {or it was a loose sand rock, which yielded easily to
tho labour 1 bestowed upon it; am when I found I was prettv
sale as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand,

 

into the rock, and then taming to the right again, worked nine
out, and made me a. door to conzc out in the outside of my pailc or
fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way
to airy ten: and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my
0()( S.
g And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; for without
those I was not able To enjoy the few comforts I had in the world;
I could not write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure;
without a table; so I wont to work. And here I must need ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of mathematics,
so that by stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may he, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my
life; and yet. in time, by labour, application, and contrivauce I found
at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I
had had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than an adzc and a hatchet, which
erhaps were never made that way before, and ihat with infinite
lithour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other Way bnt
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with my axe, till 1 had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method, I
could make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my
time or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another.

I made me a table and a chair, in the first place; and this I did
out. of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the
ship. But when 1 wrought out some boards, as above,I made large
shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails and iron work
on; and, in a word, to separate every thing,r at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into
the wall of the rock, to hang my guns, and all things that would
hang up; so that had my cave been seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had every thin so ready
at. my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see al my goods
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so

rent.
g And now it was that I beoan to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for, indeed, at lirst, I was in too much hurry, and not
only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would, too, have been full of many dull things.

Some days after this, and after I had heeii on board the ship and
got all that I could out of her, I could not forbcar getting up to the
top oEa little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a
ship: then fancy that, at a vast distance, I spied a sail, please my-
self with the hopes of it, and, after looking steadily, till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly. "

But having got over these thin in some measure, and having
settled my household stud" and ha itation, made me a table and a
chair, and all about me as handsome as I could, I began to keep my
journal: of which I shall here give vou the copy (though init Will be
told all these particulars over again) as long wit lasted ; for having
no more ink, 1 was forced to leave it off.
noamsox's JHIVRNAL --1\}',TAlT.S OF HIS DOMESTIC FFOXOMY A30
CONTKIVANCES--SHOCK 01" AK EARTHQUAKE.

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659. l, mm- miserablr Robinson Crusoe, heing
shipwrecked, during a sham in] storm. in Ihe nlling, came on shore
("I this dismal unfortunate islrnnl, which I culled the ISLAND 0P
Dunn-nu; all lhe rest of the ship's company being drowned, and
myself almost (lend.

()L'Tumcr. 1. In the morning I saw. to my; great surprise, the ski )
lizul floated \\ llll lhe high tide, and was drin'n on shore again mun 1
nearer the Maud. I helm-(l, if the wind nhnled, I might get. on
bnnrd, and get some food and necessaries on: of her for my relief.
I spent. great part- of lllis (lay in neglexing myself on these thing:;
but, at. lengt h, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as
near as 1 could, and tln-u swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 151 of ()emlwr lo the B-llh. All these days entirely
spam. in many several voyages to gel uli 1could out of the ship;
which I brought on shore, ever ' tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
ulso in these days, though wit some intervals of fair weather: but
it seems this was the rainy season.

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind blowing
it little harder than before) and was no more to be seen, exec t the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this uy in
covering and securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain
might not spoil them.

From the 26th to the 301i), I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my habitation, though some part of the time it rained ex-
ceedingly hard.

The 31st, in the mornina, I went out into the island with my gun,
to see for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-
"ont, and herdkid followed me home, which i. afterwards killed also,
Because it. would not feed. _

NOVEMBER. 1. I set up mv tent under a rock, and lay there for
the first inght; making it as large as l could, with stakes driven in
to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 4' This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my gun, tune of sleep, and time of diversion; viz.,
every morning I walkedrout with my gun for two or threehours, if
it. did not ram; then employed mysell~ to work till about eleven
o'clock ; then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I
lay down to sleep, the weather licing excessively hot; and then, in
lhe evening, to work again The working part of this day and the
next was wholly employed in umkiug my table, for Iwus yet but
a very sorry workman: though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe t cy would any
ODC (3 50.

Nov. l3. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth : but. it was accompanied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over 1 resolved to separate my stock
of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
be in danger.

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the rock,
to make room for my further convenience.

Norma. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, via, a
picknxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket: so I desisted from
my work and began to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for icknxe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper enough, t ough heavy: but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing efi'ectually without it; but what kind 0! one to
make I knew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, Ifound a tree of
that WOULl, or like it. which, in the Brazils, they call the iron free,
from its r. seeding harilncss: of this, with great labour, alltl alums:
spoiling l.._\' axe. l cut a piece; and brought it home, too, with (lim-
culty (:ii(;iigli,.i'<n- it. was ('XCE'Cilng heavy. The excessive hardness
of the. \t'Otitl. and my having no other vay, made me a long while
upnn this machine: for I worked if. cll'iri-iiizilly by little and little,
into the. form <<if a shovel ot' spade; the handle exactly shaped
like ours in linglznitl, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at the bottom, it wnuld not last. me salon}; however, it
served well eunuch 'ur the uses WliK'lX I had 006151011")th it to;
hut never was a SlmVCl, 1 h:.-lii:\'e, math: after that fashion, or so long
in ziiaking.

 

 

NOV. 23. My other work lini'iii:r now stood still. heeausc of my
makingtliese. tuols, when they were filll~il1('ll I went on; and working
(wary day, as my strength and time ail-meal. I spent eighteen (lays
entirely in \i'it' - ' ~ 'liltl tlct-lwiiing mg; care, that it might hold my
gootls contincii . .

DEG-2MB 'i: ll'. 1 hegaii now to think inv mm or vault finished;
when on a suihlrn (it seems I hail math: it two largo) a great quantity
of earth full rlmi'ii from ihv 10p and one. side; so inueli, that, in short,
it frightened me. and um, \i'ithnnt rcasn- tun; l'oril' I liatl heenlmder
it, I sliouhl ni'Vf'l' have wanted a gra ',_ 'r. Upon this disaster,
Iliad a great th'al of work to do own again, for I had the. 1mm
earth to 0-11); out 1 and. Etieli was of more iziipni'laner'. I ll' ti
'tllzn ceiiing to print up, :0 that 1 might be sure no more would or.

0""11.

DEC. 11. This day 1 want to Work with it accordingly; and gut.
two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each ost: this I finished the. next da ; and
setting more posts up wit 1 boards, in about a week more I ml the
roof secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me for parti-
tions to part off my house.

Dec. 17. From this da ' to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to iang everything up that could be hung up:
and now I began to be in some order within doors.

DEC. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some ieces of boards, like a dresser, to order
my vietuzils upon; but boarss began to be very scarce with me; also
I made me another table.

DEC. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

 

J ANL'ARY 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad ezirly anti late with
my un, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, mg
furt or into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the is and
I found there were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hen-ti
to come at- however, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog
to hniit them down. Accordingly, the next day, _I went out ivith mv
dog, and set him upon the goals: but 1 was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog: and he knew his danger too well, for lie

.wonld not come near them. _ . _ '

J in. 3. Iln-gan my fence or wall; which, being still Jenlous of
my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick am
strong.

During this time, 1. made my rounds in the woods for gameevery
day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveriesbm

these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, 1
5 I50 mvnsrnmas or ROBINSON cutrson.

found a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
inking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but. when they grew older, they flew all away; which, per-
haps, was, at first, for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to
give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got. their
voting ones, which ucre very good meat. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that in rummaging my things, I found a little
bug; which, as I hinted before, had been filled with corn, for the
feeding of poultry; not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose,
when the ship come from Lisbon. \l'hut little remainder-oi corn
had been in the bug was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bug but husks and dust: 'tnd being willing to have the but"
for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when .1 divided
it. for fear of the. lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
corn out of it, on one side of my tbrtification, under the rock.

1!. was a little before the great rain now mentioned, that. I threw
this stuff away; taking no notice of anything, 'and not. so much as
remembering lllut l had thrown anything there: when, about a month
after, l saw some few stalks of sonnet-lung green shooting out of the
ground, which 1 fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green
garley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English

or ey.

I at first thought- these the pure productions of Providence for my
support; and, not doubting that there was more in the place, I went
over all that part. of the island where I had been before, searching in
every comer, and under ever rock, for more of it; but I could not
find any. At last it occurre to my thouohts, that I had shaken out
a bag of chicken's-meat in that place, and then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what>> was common; though I ought to have been
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it had
been miraculous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me,
that should order or a point that ten or twelve rains of corn should
remain nus oiled, when the rats had destro c all the rest, as if it
had been rcppcd from heaven; as also, hat I should throw it
cut- in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprung up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it anywhere else, at. that time, it would have been burned up and
destroyed.

I carefull saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in their
season, whic was about the end of June; and, laying up every com,
I r"\'olve(l to sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have some
quantity sullicinnt to supply me with bread. But it was not till the
fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain of this corn
to eat, and even then but s aringly, as I shall show afterwards in its
order; for 1 lost all that {sowed the first season, by not observing
the proper time; as I sowed just before the dry Season, so that it
never came up at all, at least not as it would have done: of which
in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twent or thirty stalks
of rice, which I reserved with the same care; an whose use was
of the same kind? or to the same purpose, vi2., to make me bread,
or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without bakhw,
though I did that also after some time.----But to return to my J ourmil.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
well done; and the latth of April I closed it up; eontriving to get
into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

APRIL 16. I finished the ladder; so I went u with the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and et it down in the
inside: this was a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was
thus ;---As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, iust at the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened by a shock of an
earthquake !

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one dead
or stupiiied; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock
awakcd me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupified condition
I was in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods, and burying all at
once; this sunk my Very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I begin: to take couruoe; yet I had not heart enough to 0 over my
wall a vain, for fear of" being buried alive; but satst' upon the
groun greatly east down and disconsolatc, not knowmg what to do.
All this while I had not. the least. serious religious thought; nothing
but the common " Lord, llave mercy on me! " and when it was over
that went away too.

This set me thinking about what I had best do; conclud-
ing, that if the island was suh'eet to earthquakes, there would be
no living for me in a cave, but must consider of building me some
little hut in an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as I
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
for if I staid where l was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive 9

3
With these. thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place
where it new stood, being just under the hanging l'ceipice ol the
hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, "'01 (I certainly fall
upon my tent. I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th
oi April, in contriving where and how to remove my habitation. I
resolved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a wall
with piles and cables, 8:0. in a circle as before, and set my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I was
till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This was the inst.

APRIL 2-2. The next morning I began to eOnSider of means to put

this measure into execution; and I was at a great lossabout the

 

tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatehets (for we
carried the hatchots for traflic with the Indians); but with much
chop ing and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches,
and ull: and though I had a grindstone, I could nor turn it and
grind my tools too. This caused me as much thought as 8. states-
man would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel
With a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.

APRIL 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well.

APRIL 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a great
while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit.

cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
RO'BIKSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK--
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.

MAY 1. In the morning, looking towards the seaside, the tide
being low, 1 saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary,
and it looked like a cask; when I came to it I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it further on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastie, which lay buried in the sand, was heaved up at least
six feet; and the stem (which was broke to pieces, and parted from
the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummagino her)
was tossed, as it were, up, and east on one side: and the sun was
thrown so high on that side next her stem, that I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out.

This wholly diverted my the ' rrhts from the design of removing my
habitat-ion ; and I busied mysef mightily, that day especiallrv, in
searching whether I could make any way into the ship; ut I ound
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship
was choked u with sand. However, as I had learned not to (less
of withing, resolved to pull everything to pieces that I eoul of
the 5 ip, concluding that everything I could get from her would be

of some use or other to me.
5.
Mar 3. I began will: my saw. and cut a piece of a beam through,
which I thought. hi-hl some of the upper part or quarter-deck to-
gether; and when I had cut it. through, I cleared away the sand as well
as 1 could from the side which lay highest ; but the tide coming in, I
was obliged to give over for that. time.

MAY 4-. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that. I durst eat
of, till I was wearv of my sport; when just. going to leave off, I
caught a young duiphin. I had made a lon line of some rope-yarn,
but. I had no hooks; yet I frequently caugit fish enough, as much
as I cared to eat; all of which 1 dried in the sun, and ate them dry.

Mar 5 to 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour I loosened some things so much, with the crow,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
scamcn's chests; but the wind blowing from shore, nothin'r came to
land that day but picci-s of timber, and a hogshead, which had some
Brazil pork in it. I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, exec )t the time necessary to get. food; which I always
appointed. uring this part. of my employment to be when the tide
was up, that I mighL be ready when it was ebbed out ; and by this
time 1 had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work, enough to have
built a good boar, ii'l had known how; and I also got, at several
Pups, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet--
(:aL .

J use 16. Going down to the seaside, Ifound a large tortoise, or
turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was only to
my misfortune, not any defect of the lace or scarcity; for had I
happened to be on the other side of tie island, I might have had
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards ; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.

Jun}: 17. I sweat in cooking the turtle. I found in her three-
score eggs; and nor flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury
and pleasant that. I ever tasted in my life ; having had no flesh, but
of goats and fowls, since I iandcd in this horrid place.

.1an IS. Rained all. day, and I stayed within. I thought at
this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; which I
knew was not usual in that latitude.

I?" 19. Very ill, and shivering. as if the weather had been
co .

J use 20. No rest all night ; violent. pains in my head, and feverish.

Julie 21. Very ill ; frightened almost to dearh with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help; prayed to God,
for the first time since the storm off Hull; hut scarce kncw what I
said, or why, my thouglns being all confused.

June 22. A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions of
sickness.

J use 28. Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a violent
headache.nnwsruues or nosmsox season. 55

J USE 24. Much better.

J um; 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven hours;
cold lit, and hot, \vilh faint sweats after it.

JUNE 26. Better; and having no viLunls to eat, took my gun, but
found myself very weak; however, I killed a she-goat, and with
much (lilliculty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. 1'
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

J use 27. The no again so violently that I lay a-hcd all day,
and neither ate norafirank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so
weak, I had not the strength to stand up, or get myself any water
to drink. ,l'raycd to God again, but was light-headed; and when I
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look n on me! Lord, ity me! Lord, have mere
upon me 1" I suppose I 'd noth' else or two or three hours; ti 1
the lit wearing off, I fell asleep, on did not wake till far in the night.

When I awoke, [found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
lion, 1 was forced to lie till morning.

Ihad, alas! no divine knowled e: what I had received by the
good instruction of my father was t icn worn out, by an uninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a. constant
conversation with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last de rce. I do not remember that I had, in all
that time, one thong it that so much as tended either to looking
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stu idity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, ha entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthiuki , wicked creature among our
common sailors, can be supposed to e; not having the least sense,
either of the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to him, in
dclivcranees.

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all m ship's
crev drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a ind of
ecslaey, and some transports of soul, which, had the race of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; nt it ended
where it began, in a more common flight of joy, or, as I ma say,
being glad I was alive, without the least reflection u on the istin- ~
guishcd goodness of the hand which had preserve me, and had
singled me out to be reserved when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why provi cnce had been thus merciful to me; just the
some common sort of joy which seamen have, after they are of. sale
ashore from a shipwreck ; which they drown all in the next owl of
lunch, and forget: almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my
'fe was like it, Even when I was, afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition,--how I was cast off on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or
prospect of redemption, --as soon as I saw but a prospect of living,
and that I should not stature and perish for hunger, all the sense of
affliction were off, and I became to be very easy, applied myself to
the Works proper for my preservation and supply, and was far enough
from being nlllicted at. my condition, as a judgment from heaven, or
as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.

 

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure View of tho
miseries of death came to place itself before me; when mv spirits
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that: had
slept so long, bean to awake; and I reproachcd myself with my
past life, in whiei I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.

" New," said I, aloud, " my dear {Ithcr's words are come to pass;
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
station of life wherein} might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see it myself, nor learn from my parents the blessing
of it. Ilel't them to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my
help, for I am in ggzat distress." This was the first raycr, if I may

call it so, that I (1 made for many years. But return to my
Journal. '
HIS uncanny--ms cannon IN READING me scnmnnns--
MAKES AN Excunsm mm min INTERIOR. or Tun ISLAND--
ronus ms "ROVER."

JUNE 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep Ihad
had, and the {it emg entirely oil', I got up, and considered now
was in time to get something to refresh and support in self
when lyshould he iil. The first thing I did was to fill a r e
case-bottle with water, and set it u on my table, in reach of my be ;
and to take 03' the chill or aguisii disposition of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together.
Then I ot me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but cou d eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withnl very sad and heavyheurted in the sense of my miserable con--
dition. dreading the return of my distemper the next day.

how, as the apprehension of the return of my distemper'terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take
no physio but their tobacco for almost all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which, to this time, I had not found leisure or so much as
inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of
the tobacco I knew not, as to my distmnper, nor whether it Wits
good for it. or not ; but I tried several experiments with it, as if I
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of
a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost
stupificd my brain; the tobacco being green and stro , and such
as I had not, been much used to. Then I took some an steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down: and lastly, 1 burnt some upon a pan of coals, uud hold
my nose close over the smoke of it as long asI could hear it; as
well for the heat, as almost for sull'ocation. In the interval of this
operation, I took 11 the Bible, and begun to read : but my head was
too much disturlw by the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that
time; only, havingr opened the book casually, the first words that
occurred to me were these: " Call on me in the duy of trouble, and
1 will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me," These words were
vary 1th to my case; and made some impression upon my thoughts
at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did utter-
wurds ; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things, that, as the children of Israel said when they
were promised tlesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness?" so I began to say, " Can even God himself deliver me from
this place?" And as it. is not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this rcvailcd vet) often upon my thoughts: but, however,
the words out o a great impression upon me, and I mused upon
them very often. It now grew lute: and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozcd my head so much, that. l inclined to sleep: so I left my lump
burning in the cave, lost. I should want- anything in the night, and
went to bed. But. before I lay down, I did when. I never had done
in all my life: I kueeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I called upon him in the (lay of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect. prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I. llittl steeped the tobacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it
down; imnuuliutely upon this 1 went to bed. I found ptcseutly the
rum flew up into my head violently; but. I fell into a sound sleep,
and wnked no more till by the sun, it must.- necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, l mu partly
of opinion, that l Slc)t all the next. day and night, and till almost
three the day after; ior otherwise, I know not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for it' I had lost it by crossing and
rc-crossing the Line, I should have lost. more than one day; but
certainlyl lost. a dur in my account, and never know which way.
Br: that, however, one. way or the other, when I awaked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful:
when 1 got up lwus stronger than 1 was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry: and, in short, I had no fit the
next day, but continued much altered for the better. This was the
29lh.

The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. 1 killed a seal'owl or

 

me, something like a. brand goose, and brought them home; but

.was not very forward to eat them; So I ate some more of the turtle's

eggs, whieli were ver ' good. This evening 1 renewed the medicine,
which I had suppose did me good the day before, viz the tobacco
steeped in ruin; only I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke: however, I
was not so well the next day, which was the lst of July, as I hoped
I slipuld have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but it was not
mue 1.

J1: LY 2 and 3. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I
( ran '.

JULY 4. In the morning I look the Bible; and beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and imposed uion
myself to read a while every morning and every night; not bin 'ng
myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
work, that I found my heart sincerely affected with the wickedness of
my past life. The words, "All these things have not brought thee to
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened provident-idly, the
very same day, that, reading the saipture, I came to these words,
" He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to give. repentance and to
give remission." I threw down the hook; and with my heart as
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of cestasv of jov, I
cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou cxaitcd
Prince and Saviour! give me re )entauce." This was the first time
in all my life I' could say, in t e true sense of the words, that I
prayed; .l'or new I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture View of hope, founded on the cncouragmcnt of the

word of (JOdZ and from this time, [me say Ibenaut h ' 11
that God would hear me. 3' H a o axe ope

 

From the 'tth of J ml}: to the Nth, I was chiefly ennlovcd in
walking about. with my gun in my hand, a little and a littie at a
time, as a man that. was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it. is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The up )licatiou which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an aguc before:
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry elf the fit, yet it. rather contributed
to weakening me; for I had frequent convulsion in my nerves and
limbs for some time 2 I learned from it. also this, in particular; that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so
I found that this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever
set foot 11 n that place. Having secured my habitation, as I
thought,f ly to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
erfeet discovery of the Island, and to see what other productions
Imizhl. find, which I yet knew nothing of.

it was on the lhth of July that I began to take a more articular
survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, w ere, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good :
but this being the dry season, there was liar-d1 any water in some

arts of it; at least, not any stream. 0n the hanks of this brook

found many pleasant sarnnnnhs or meadows, lain, smooth, and
covered with rass; and on the rising parts 0 them, next. to the
higher groun s (where the water, as it might be sup oscd, never
ovorllowcd), I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and) growing to
a very great and smon stalk: and there were divers other plants,
which I had no know edge of, or understanding about, and that
might, perha s, have virtues of their own, which I could not. find
out. 1 score led for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of; but I could find none. I saw large
plants of alors, but did not understand them. Isaw several sugar.
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, Imperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know the virtue
and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the fields; at least, very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and after
fnlll" something farther than I had gone the day before, I found the
broo and thc savannahs begin to cease, and the country became
more woody than before. In this part I found dil'l'erent fruits ; and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in rent abundance,
and grapes upon the trees: the vines, indeed, ha spread over the
trees, and the. clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very
ripe-and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was ex-
ceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them , remembering that when I was asnore in Barbary,
the eating of gra es killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by tirowing them into fluxes and fevers. Ifound,
however, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to cure or
dry them in the sun, and hue them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept; which I thought woul be (as indeed they were) as whole-
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to he had.

Having spent three days in this journey, I came home, so I must
now call my tent. and my care.

When I came home from this journey, I contaminated with mat

pleasure the fruitfnhicss of that valley, 'and the plcasantncss o the
6
situation; the security from storms on that side; the water and the
"'00d; and concluded that I had pitcln'd upon a place to fix my
abode in, which was by far the worst part. of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation, and in

 

look out. for a place equally sale as where Iwas now situate; if
possible, in that pleasant. fruitful part of the island.

I was so cuanmurcd of this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining part of the month of July; and
though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built:
me. a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a.
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as 1 could reach, well
staked, and filled between with brnsliwood. Here I lay very secure
sometimes two or three nights together; always going over it with
a ladder, as before: so that, I fancied now I had my country and
my sea-coast, house. This work took me up to the beginning of
August.

About the beginning of August, 1 had finished my bower, and
began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August! found the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees;
and it. was very happy that- I did so, as the rains which followed
would have spoiled them, and I should have lost the. best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of them.
No sooner had 1 taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but. it. hogan to rain: and from hence, which was
the 14th of August, it: rained, more or less. every day till the middle
of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of
my cave for several days.
In this season, I was much snr rised with the increase of my
family. lhud been concerned for tie loss of one of my cats, who
ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with three-

kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about the end

 

of August, thouvh I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my
gun, yet I thought it was quite a dill'erent kind from our European
cal-s: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the
old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought it very
strange. But from these three, I afterwards came to be so estered
with cuts that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so that I
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I be an to be straitened for food, but venturin out
twice, I one day kille a goat, and the last day, which was the 4-1 h,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was
now revelated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece 0? the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled for my dinner, (for,
to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything,)
and two or three of the tnrtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I worked dail
two or three hours at enlarging my care; and by de ees worked it
on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the Jill: and made
a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open: for as I had managed myself before, I was in a erfcct
enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet could
not perceive that there was any living thin to fear, the biggest
creature that I had as yet seen upon the islan being a goat.

SEPTEMBER 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of
my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had
been on shore three hundred and sixty-fire days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast-l setting it apart for religious exercise, prostratizzg
myself on the ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing
my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to him to have mercy on me through desus Christ ; anc
having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, 1 then ate a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went. to bed, linishing the day as I began it. I had all
this time observed no sabbatlrday ; for as at first. I had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some lime, omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days were: but
now having east up the days, as above, I found I had been there a
year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for
a sabbath : though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning
to fail me, I contented myself to use it; more sparingly; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my life.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular
to me, and l learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly; but I bought all my experience before I had it.

While my corn was growing, I made a little discovery, which was
of use Io me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November,
1 made a visit up the country to my bower; where, though I had
not been for some months, yet I found all things just as fluid left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew
thcrcabouts, were all shot out and grown with long branches, as
much as a. willow-tree usually shoots the first year after looping its
head; but. I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. Iwas surprised. and yet very well gleased, to see the
young trees grow; andl pruned them, and le them to grow as
much alike as 1 Could: and it. is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years: so that, though the hedge
made a circic of about twenty-(ire yards in diameter, yet. the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
pleto shade, sntlieicnt to lodge under all the dry season. This made
me resolve to out. some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in
a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which
I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about. eight
yards distance from my fence, they grew presently; and were at
first a fine cover to my habita! ion, and afterwards served for a
defence also; as I shall observe in its~ order.Romxsox mums a TOUR. 'ro EXPLORE ms ISLAND.

I rounn now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were encrally thus: From the middle
of February to the middle of Apri , rainy; the sun being then on
or near the c uinox. From the middle of April till the middle of
August, dry; t e snnheing then north of the Line. From the middle
Au st till the middle of October, rainy; the sun being then come
bac' to the Line. From the middle of Oelohcr till the middle of
February, dry; the sun being then to the south of the Line.

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter,
as the winds hap mind to blow; but this was Ihe general observation
I made. After i had found, by experience, the ill consequences of
being abroad in the rain, I look care to furnish myself with provisions
beforehand, that I might- not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as possible during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the time; as I found
great occasion for many things which I had no way to furnish m sell
with, but by hard labour and constant application; particular 3;, I
tried many ways to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose proved so hrittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at ahaskol-maker's in the

town where my father lived, to see thiam make their wickenware;
6" r
and being, as boys usually are, very ofiicious to help, and agreat
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that. I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew, might )ossihly be as tough as the sallows, willows, and
osiers, in Englan , and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next
(lay, I went to my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, 1 found them to my purpose as much as I could

 

desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to
cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was Irreat plenty
of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or (hedge; and
when they were fit. for use, I carried them to my cave; and there,
during the next season, .1 employed myself in making, as well as
I could, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up
anything I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sullicicntly serviceable for my purpose;
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as
my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especially strong deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come
to have any quantity of it.

I mentioned before, that I had great mind to see the whole island;
and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I had
built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore, on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a. larger quantitr of powder and shot. than usual, with two
biscuit-cakesandagreat brunch ol' raisins in my pouch, for my store.
I boom to journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as a xive, 1 came within view of the sea, to the west; and it:
being a clear day, I fairly dcscried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
SW. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions; and
perhaps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed,

had been in a worse condition than I was now. I therefore ac-
quiesced in the disposition of Providence, which I began now to
own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; I say, I quieted
in mind with this, and left oll' aillicting myself with fruitless wishes
0 being there. Besides, after some reflection upon this affair,
I considered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly
one time or other, see some vessel pass or rcpass one way or other;
but if not, then it was a savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of savages;
for they are eannibals, or men-caters, and fail not to murder and
devour all human beings that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found
this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter than mine;
the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and rass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; an fain
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to he tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some pains catch a
young parrot; for I knocked it down with a S'JCK, and, having recov-
ered it, I brought it home; but it was some years before I could
make him s ear; however, at last. I taught lnm to call me by my
name very amiliarly.

'l' 2
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in the low
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes; but they differed
greatly from all the other kinds 1 had met with ; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too , especially those three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle,
or tortoxse.

.Is soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island ; for here indeed
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on the
other side I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds ; some of which I had
not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except those culled penguins.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasant-er than mine;
yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as l was fixed in my
tahitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was
here to be as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I
travelled along the seashore towards the east, Isuppose about twelve
miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the seashore for a mark,
Iconcluded I would go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, cast from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again ; of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss
finding my first dwelling by viewing the country ; but I found myself
mistaken; for beingr come about two or three miles, 1 found myself
desrended in a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and
those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position ofthe sun at that time of the day. And it
happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered about. verv uncomfortable, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, and come back the
same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward,
the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
And other things very heavy.
KEJETUR'NS TO HIS CAVE--HIS AGRICULTURAL mom AND
SUCCESS.

IN this journey, my door surprised at young kid and seized upon it;
and I running to take mid of it, caught it and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and so raise a breed of fame goats, which might supply me with
food when my powder and shot were ll 5 cnt. I made a. collar for
this little crealure, and with 11 string whici I had made of some rope
yarn, which 1 always carried about. me, I led him along, though with
somc dilliculty, tillI came to my bower, and there I cncloscd him
and left him; for I was very impatient to he at home, from whence
I had been absent above a momh.

I rcposcd m ysell' here a week, to rest and rcgnle myself aft-or my long
journey ; during which, most. of the time was taken up in the weighty
alfair of making; a cage for my Poll, who began now to be more do-
mestic, and to he mi rht well no uninted with me. Then I began to
think of the poor ki w \ich I ha penned within mylif.tle circle, and
resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food; uccordingl I went,
and found it where I left it (for indeed it could not at out, but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut goughs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and having fed
it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away ; but it was so time
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog; and as I continually fcd it, the creature he-
came so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards,
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
lifel now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now having changed both my sorrows and my joys: my very
desires altered, my all'ections, changed and my delights were per-
lcctly new from what. they were at. my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past. Before, as l walked about, either on my hunting,
or for vit 'ing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
Would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I ww
in ; and how I was a prisoner, locked n with the eternal bars and
liults of the ocean, in an uninhabited wil erness, without. redemption.
1n the midst of the greatest composurcs of my mind this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and
weep like a child: sometimes it. would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: and this was still worse to me;
but if I could burst- iuto tears, or give vent to my feelings by words,
it Would go oil; and my grief havmg exhausted itself would abate.

'l'hus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the iron do of so particular an
account of my works this year as the first, yet in g-neral it ma be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, having regtdaxly divide my
time, according to the several daily cmployments that were before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which
I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my? gun for food, which generally look me up three
hours every morning, when it dill not rain: thirdly, The ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply; these took up great part of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, l desire may be added the
exceedingly laboriousness of niv work; the many hours which, for
want of tools, want of help, and want. of skill, evarythino I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two anda forty days
making me a hoard for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
when-as, two sawgers, with their tools and a sawpit, would out six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My ('ase was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a liroad one. This tree I was three
days cutting down, and two more in cutting 011' the boughs, and
reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressihle hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it was light
cnou to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth
and at as a board, from end to end; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but labour and patience
carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this in particular, to show the reason why so much of my time went
away with so little work, viz. that what might be a: little to be done
withhclp and tools, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with patience
and labour I went. throu h many things; and, indeed, everything
that my circumstances m' e necessary for me to do, as will appear
by what follows.

 

I was now, in the months of November and December, ex ecting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manurcd or ug up
for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
more than half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the
dry season: but now my crop romised very well; when, on a sudden,
I found I was in danger of osing it again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it nivht and day. as soon as it came
up,1 1and ate it so close, that it could get no time to shoot up into
Sta '.

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it
l72 .mvnxrcnrs or xomxsox CRUSOE.

with a hedge, which T did with a great deal of toil; and the more,
because it required speed. llowcver, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about
three \reeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day
time, I set my dog to guard it at night, tying him up to a stake at
the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a
little time the enemies l'orsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apaee.

 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the
blade, so the birds were likely to ruin me now, when it was in the
ear; for going along,r by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded \rith fools, I know not of howmany sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had my gun with me, and killed three
of them. I took them up, and served them as We serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains, for a terror to others.
It is impossible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it
had; for the fools not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as ling as my scarecrou's hung there. This I
was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my
com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down : and all
I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad swords, or cutlasses, which 1 saved among the arms out of the
ship. However as my first crop was but small, I had no yrreat
dilficulty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for out
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubde it out with my hands ; and at the end ofurns-runes or aoamson i'ausol. 73

all my harvestintr, I found that out of my half peek of seed I had
near two bushes of rice, and above two bushels and a half of
barley ; that isto say, by my guess, for I had no measure.

however, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread; yet here
I was perplexed again; for I neither knew how to grind, or make
meal of my com, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and it how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my desrre of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this ero , but to reserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in t e meantime, to em loy all In
study and hours of working to accomplish this great war of provi -
ing myself with com and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much
upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary in the pro-
viding, producing, curing, dressinrr, making, and finishing this one
article of bread. I that was reduced to a mere state of nature,
found this to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even utter I had got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
sur rise.

first, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it;well, this 1 con tiered by making a wooden spade, as I
observed before; but this id my work in but a wooden manner. The
corn was sown; I had no harrow, but was forced to go over 1t~myself,
and drag a. great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or barrow it. Then I wanted a mill
to rind it, sieves to dress it; yeast and salt to make it into bread,
am? an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without, as
shall be observed; and the corn was an inesrimable comfort and
advantatre to me; and as I resolved to use none of the com for bread
till] ha a router quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myselffrwholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with
utensils proper for the perforating all the operations necessary for
taking corn lit for my use.
HIS MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY, AND COX'IRIVANCE FOR BAKING
BREAD.

Bur now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough to sow
above an acre of "1.0111111 Before I did this, I had a week's work at
least 1.0 make me a spade , "hich, "hen it was done, was but a so
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work with
ho11"e1er, I went tlnough that, and son-ed my sced 1n two large
fltat icces of wound, as near my house as I could find them 10 my
min, and fenced 1119111 111 with a good liedge;1he stakes of which
were all cut 011' that wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one year s time I knew I should have a quick or
livinn', hedge, that 11 011111 want but.) little repair. This 1101-1: took me
up full three months; because a great part of the time was in the wet
season, "'111 11 I could not go abroad. Within doors, that 15, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the followin
occasions , alw avs obsening, that while I was 11.1. work, I diveitc
mvsclf with talking to m1' parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
q1iickly taught 111111 to know his own name, and at last to speak it
out pretty loud, Poll; 11' hich 11' as the first word I ever heard spoken,
in the island by any month but my own. This, therefore, was not
1111' work, 111111111 assistant to my work; for no11',as I said, I hud a.
gloat 01111110111191" 111011 mv hands, as 1'2011011'5 I had long studied,
by some means or 01 1er, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted much, but knew not 11111.11. 10 come at them; how-ADVES'IUKES or msruson cnvsoe. 75

ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I
could find out any clay, 1 mi ht botch up some such ot as might,
being dried in the sun, be bar and strong enoufh to or handling
and to hold anything that was dry, and require to be kept so; and
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should he put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis-
shapen ugly things I made; how many of them tell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stifi' enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily ; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as alter they were dried; and, in sword, how, after havin
laboured hard to find the clay, to digit, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two large northern ugly
things (I cannot call them jars) in abOut two mouths' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and as between the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stufl'cd it lull of the rice and barley straw; and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.

'l'hOugh I miscarried so much in my design for large Eats, yet I
made several smaller things with better success; such as ttle round
pots, flat. dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and everything my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen

at to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
It happened some time after, making a pretty lar 6 fire for cookin
my meat, when I went to put it out a ter 11 done with it,
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeabl sur-
prised to see it; and said to myself, that certainly they mlg t he
made to burn whole, if they woul burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the pattern burn in,
or of glazino them with lead, though 1 had some lead to do it with;
but I placed3 three large (pipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and place my fire-wood all round it, with a great
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, thou h it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixe with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, it I had gone on;
so 1 slacked my tire grzuluuly, till the pols hogan to nhute of the red
colour; and watching them all night, that 1 might not let the tire
nhnte loo first, in the morning 1 had three very good, 1 will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other enrthcrn pots, nshard hurnt_as
could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed With the running
of the sand.

Mr next concern was to get a stone mortar to beat some com in ;
for us to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection
of art with one mir of hands. 'l'o supply this went I was an a great.
loss; for, oi' oi trades in the world, 1 was as perfectly unqlualilied
for It stone-cutter us for any whatever; neither had 1 any 100 s to go
about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow, and make lit for v. mortar; but could find nune

 

at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way
to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient. hardness, as they were all of a. sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither hear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it with sand; so, after a great deal of time
lost in looking fora stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out:
for a block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as 1 had strength to stir, I rounded and formed
it. on the. outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help of the fire, and infinite labour, made a. hollow in it, as theanvmrunns or ltoBlNSON cssvon. -71

Indiana in Brazil .make their canoes. After this, I made a rent
heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood called iron-wood; and t is I
prepared and laid by against. I had my next crop of corn, when

proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into
meal, to make my bread.

The baking )art was the next thing tu heconsidored, and how I should
make bread when 1 came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast;
as to that. part, there was no suppl 'ing the want, so I did not con-
C('l'll myself much about it; but or an oven I was indeed puzzled.
At length I found out an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say,
about two feet. diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and
"hen I.wanted to bake, I made a great lire upon my hearth, which
1 had paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also; but I should not call them s uare. When the firewood was
burned into embers, or live coals, drew them forward upon the
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lietill the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, 1 set down my
loaf, or leaves, and covet-mg them with the earthen pot, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the
heat ; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pics, as I had nothing to put into them except
the flesh of t'owls or goats.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my hams bigger; Iwauted a place to lay it u in; for the
increase of the cam now yielded me so much, that had of the
barley about. twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my bread had
been quite gone a great while; I resolved also to see what quantity
would be sutlicient for me a whole year, and to sow but. once a

(331'.

3' Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume in a your; so I resolved to
sow just the same quantity every year that; 1 sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me With bread, 8m.

 

7e
MEDITATES HIS ESCAPE FROM TIII') ISLAND--BUILDS A CASOE--

FAILURE OF HIS SCIIEMEv~RESIGNAIION TO Ills CONDITION--
MAKES HIMSELF A NEW DRESS.

ALL the while these things were doing, you may he sure my thoughts
run many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island -, and I was not without some secret wi:hedeg
that I was on shore there; faneymg, that seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and perhaps at last. find some means of escape.

Now I wiahed for my boy Xury, and the long-boat. with the
shoulder-of--mutton sail, with which 1 sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast. of Africa; but this was in vain; then I "10!."th I
would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said: was
blown up upon the shore a rent way, in the storm, when we were
first- cast away. She lay near y where she did at first, 'out. not quite,
having turned by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upward, against a high ridge of heaehy rough 51nd; but. no
water about. her as before. If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
very well, and 1 might have gone back into the Brazils with he:anemones or 30313553 causes. 79

easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn
her and set. her u right upon her bottom, than I could remove me
island; however, went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to tr ' what I could do;
suggesting to m 'sell', that if l could but turn or down, and rrpair
the damage she ad received, she would he a very good boat, and I
mi in venture to sea in her.
spared no pains, indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent
I think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, 1 fell to digving away the
sand, to, undermine her, and so as to make her fall ilown, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
had done this, I was unable to stir her up again, or to get under
her, much less to'move her forward towards the water; so I was
forecdvto give it over; and yet, thoughl gave over the hopes of the
heat, iny desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it. was not possible to make
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might. say, without hands, of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy,
and pleased myself extremely with the idea of makin" it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
lmlians ; but not at all eonsidcrin the particular inconvenience
which I lay under more than the In tans did, viz. the want of hands
to move it into the water when it was made,

I went to work upon this boat the most like a feel that ever man
did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
design, without determining whether I was able to undertake it; not
but that the dillienlty of launching my boat came often into my head;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer:
Let us first make it; 1 warrant 1 will find some way or other to
get it nlong when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of to
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. 1 felled a cedar tree, and
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
of the Temple at Jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then tarted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felle this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spreadnw head of
it, cut ofi'; after this, it C(Bt me amonth to shape it and du it to a
pronortion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it one-ht to do. It cost me near three months more
to clear the inside, and work it out seas to make an exact boat of it ;
tnisI did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by30 Anvnx'runns or nonthoN Clu'sol-z.

the dint. of hard lulmnr. till I had hronght it. to he a very hand-
sotm' pcr m, and big vuough to have turricd in: and all my
cargo.

lint. all my tlt'VlSt'S to got it into the water l'nilvd inc; thou rh thvy
cost an ithprosxihh' hdmnr too. [I lay :dmut out: hundrm yards
from tho \mlor, mid not. more; hot tho first. incouvmuoucu 'us, it
was up hill towards the arr-0k. \lel, to "tho u w this discourage-
nicut-, l rcsolwd to dig into the surfovu ot' the c rlh, and so malu- a
dm'liril-y'. this l hogan and it. oust. mo a prodigious dual of pains;
but who grudge pains that. tum,- thcrr dx-liwrum-o in View? Whon
this was \rm'kvd through. and this ditlittultv nnunuzml, it. was still
much tln'. sumo. for I could no mon- stir "to hnnoo than I could the
other boot. Thou I nivusurt'd the distance of ground, and resolved

 

    

     

 

to cut; a dock, or canal, to bring; the water up to the canon, seeing I
Could not bring the count: down to the wnlor. Well, I hrgun this
work; and \vlu'n l hogan to enter upon it, and calculate how doc
it was to he dug, how hrond, how the skill was to he thrown out,
found by the number of hands I had, having none hnt. my own, that.
it, must have been tut or twelve ymrs before I could have gone
through with it ; for the shore lay so high, that, at the upper end it,
must have been at h-nst. twenty feet dot-p ; this attempt, though with
grunt, rclnctnncy, l was at, length ohligrd to give over also.

This rricrcd inc hvartilv; and now I saw, though too late, the
folly of )egiuniug :1 work hcl'orc we count. the cost, and hct'orc we
judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it.

In tho middle of this work, 1 finished my fourth year in this place,
and kept. my anniversary with the same devotion and with as much
comfort as liel'ore; for, b aeonslaut study and serious application
to the word of God, and y the assistance of his grace, I gained a
(lill'ercnt knowledge from what I had before; 1 entertained dill'erent
notions of things ; I looked now upon the world as a thing remote.
which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed, no
desires about: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was even
likely to have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look ll on
it hereafter, viz. as a place I had lived in, but was more out o it
and well might I say, as lather Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee is a great gulf lixed."

 

I spent whole hours, I may any whole days, in representing to
myself, in the must lively colours, how I must have acted it I had
got nothing out of the ship. I could not have so much as SSot any
food. except fish and turtles; and that, as it was long belore . found
any of them, I must have perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any eontrivancc, I had no way to flay or
open it, or part the llesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
u I, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it to pieces With my
views, like a beast. _

These rcilcelions made me very sensible of the goodness of Prop-
(l('ll('t' to me, and very thankful for my present condition, With all Its
hardships and misfortunes; and this part also Iennnot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, " ls
any allliction like mine ? " Let them consider how much worse the

G
cases of some people are, and their case would have been, if Provi-
dence had thought lit.

With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to a resig-
nation to the will of God in the present disposition elm): circum-
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulness tor my condition; and
that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing
I had not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many
mercies that I had no reason to have expected in that place, that I
ouwlit never more to repinn at my condition, lmt to rejoice, and to

gin--i: dail)r thanks for that daily'hrcad, which nothing but a crowd

 

of wonders could have brought- ; that I ought to consider I had been
fed h a miracle (even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens),
nay, )y a long series of miracles; and that 1 could hardly have
named a place, in the uninhabited part of the world, wrcre I
could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I
had no society, which was my aillietion on one hand, so I found no
ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomous or poisonous creatures, which I might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a
life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but. to make myself
seusrhlc of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition ;
and after 1 did make a just improvement of these things, I went
away, and was no more sad.

My clothes now began to decay mightily; as to linen. I had
none {or a great while, except some chequered shirts which 1
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.

I began to consider about putting the few rags I had, which I
called clothes, into some order. I had worn out. all the waistcoat:
I had. and my business was now to try if I could not make 'uckets
out of the great watch-coats that Lhad b me, and with sue other
nmteriuls as I had; so I set to work a tai oring, or rather, indeed, a
hon-hing, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new Waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve Inc a great while.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that
I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched
out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others I found very
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for in
head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot oil' the rain; and this I
performed so well, that after this I made me n suit of clothes wholly
of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breaches open at the
knees, and both loose; for they were rather wanting to kec me cool
than warm. I must not omit to acknowledwe that trey were
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, was a. worse tailor
llowcver, they were such as Imado ver good shift with; and when
l was abroad, if it ha mated to rain, tie hair of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost, II was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an
umbrella. I made one and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
so that. it cast off the ruin like a pent-house, and kept. of? the sun
so effectually, that. I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, could cluse it and carry it under my
arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his roridenee. This made my life
better than sociable; for when began to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutu-
ally witl: my own thouwhts, and as I he 8 I may say with even
God himself, by ejacuhitions, was not better than the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world?

 

o2
11E MAKES A SMALLER. CANOE, IN WHIP" HE ATTEMI'TS T0 CRUISE

ROUND Tlll-Z ISLAND--HIS PERLLUUS SITL'IYI'ION AT SEA'HE
RETURXS HOME.

I C.-\N.\'()T sny tlIIIl after this for five years, any eVlIIaorIliIIIIry thing
happened to me. but 1 lived on in the same cquse. in Iln: sumo pus-
tllN'. IIIIIl place, just as lIIIlIIIIII, IlII: ('llll'l tlIiIIIrs l IIIIs employed in,
besides IIII yI IIrly lIIhInIr 01 plIIIII.iII_II_I my barley and rice, and cming
my raisins ol buthwhieh I aim n' keut up just eIIuIIvle ll) have will-
cIIIm stuck oi one venrs pr'miuon lII-EIIrIIlIIIIId; l snv, besides this
yearly labour, and HIV dIIilI pursuil nl gain}; uul nitlI my" "I"! I had
one labour, to make Inc II canoe II hIIIII III. last. I finished. so that by
digging II cunIIl In it six [C(l'. wide. and four feet deep, 1 [nought i'
into the creek, illlllusl, lIIIll' II IIIilc.

However, though my link: III-riugnII was finished yet the size of
it was not at all answer ll)ll' III the design "lllCll l lind In View II':lII II
I made the lir.;sI I mean of venluringnve 1' ll) IlIII term firm/I, "hurt:
it was above {My Will" lIrIIIIIl ; acemdingly, the sumllness (If my
boat assisted l0 put. an end to that design. and new l thuught no
more ol it. -\s l lIIIIl :I hIIIII. Ill\ 1on! design nus II) IIIIdIII II cruise.
aI'UIIIHl IIIII island; III III l h: ul lIII: In on the (film side in (me plum:
CrUSSl'HL' as l lIIIIII Illl"1PSlll\' lll'.\('llllllll ii, mer llIII lI.InIl SO llIe (lis-
(:(I\'('l'l('..\' I made in Ilml Iillle jI'IuIIIIIy IIIIIdII. IIII' III 1'\' IIIIIIII to see

()1 lnII p. Iris 0| IlIII IIIIII~I . 'Hlltl IIIIII 1 had u. LIIIIII,1 thought ()1 nothing
but smlinIr round the Hand.
It was on the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the so. , some
above water, some under it ; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and come buck again, not knowing how far it might oblige mo
to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boot, I took my gunned went on shore, climb-
ing up on u hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my \'it'willg the sea from that hill Where I stood, 1 crecived a
strong. and indeed a most furious current, which ran to t to east, and
even came close to the point; andI took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some. danger that, when I came into
it, I might be carried out to sea b' the stren lb of it, and not be
able to make the island again; an , indeed, bag I not get first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there was the some
current on the other side of the island, only that it set olf at a farther
distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presentlv be in an eddy.

I lay here. however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty
fresh at E. S. 15., and that being just contrary to the said current,
made n great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was not
safe for me to keep too close to the shore, for the breach, nor to go
too far off, because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight,
the sea was calm. and I ventured; but I am a warningpiece again to
all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when l was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a
null; it. carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
Could do could not keep her so much as on the (nine of it; but I
found it hurried me further and farther out from the eddy, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I
could do with my paddles signified nothing; and now I betran to give
mvself over for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a. few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then 1 was irrecorerably gone; nor did Isec any possibility of event-
ing it; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not b
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.

886 Anvzs'ruuns or uonmsou CRUSOB.

had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tessed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that; is to say, one of my earthen pots; but. what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where there was no shore, no
main land or island. for a thousand leagues at. least?

It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now
to be} into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost.
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard. till
indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and lit'pl. my boat. as
nmch to the northward, that is, towards the side oi" the current
which the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt. a little breeze of wind in
my taco, springing up from S.S.E. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful distance from the
island. and had the. least cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for l had no compass on board, and
should never have. known how to have steered towards the island, if
1 had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, 1
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stnnd~
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get. out of the
current.

Just as I had set my mast. and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away. 1 saw even by the clcarness ot' the water some alteration of
the current was near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but. perceiving the water clear, I found the current.
ahatc; and presently I found to the cast, at about. half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some 1'"ka ; these rocks I found caused the
current to part again, and as the main stress of it. ran away more
southerly. leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned
by the repulse ot the rocks, and made a st rung eddy, which mu back
again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.

T hey who know what it is to have a reprieve brought. to them
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just. going to murder
them. or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present snr wise ol'joy was, and how gladly I put. my boat. into
the stream of t iis eddy; and the wind also freshening, how gladly I
spread mv sail to it, running cheerfully before the Wind, and with a
strong tide or eddy under toot.

'l'hts eddy carried me about a leagucin my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when I
came near the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which
I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way by the
help of this current or rddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
further. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about a league on the other side; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at
least, still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.

About. four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the. rocks which occasioned this dis-
nster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting oil' the current more southerly, had, of course, made another

 

eddy to the north; and this 1 found very strong, but not direct]
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost fu
north. However, having a. fresh gale l stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, came within about a
in": of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
an .

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks
for my deliverance, resolvin to lay aside all thoughts of my deliver.
ance by my boat ; and wires ling myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labour and fatigue of the voyage.
I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough to do for many days to >it still, and to reflect upon the
danger 1 had been in. I would have been ver glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island; but I new not how it was
iraeIieuble to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which
i had gone round, I know well enough there was no venturin that
way ; my very heart would shrink, and In very blood run chi , but
to think of it; and as to the other side 0 the island, I did not know
how it might be there ; but supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, I
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of so many months' labour
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.

in this government of my temper remained near a year, lived a
very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being very much composed, as to my condition, and fullv comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very ha pily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessities put me upon applyingmyself to ; and I believe I could,
upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially consider-
ing how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely easier and better; because I made things round
and sha cable, which before were filthy things indeed to look upon.
But I 1. link I was never more vain of my performance, or more joy'
fat for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a
tobacco-pipe: and though it was ave ugly clumsy thing when it
was done, and only burned red, like ot icr earthenware, yet it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com-
forted with it, for I had always been used to smoke.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this was
a want which it was impossible for me to 511 ply, and I began ser-
ionsl to consider what I must do when {should have no more
pow er, that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, an
is observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a. young kid,
and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of ettin a lie-goat ; but
I could not by any means l)l'ln"' it to pass, tifi m gkid grew an old
mat; and as 1 could never find in my heart to ki her, she died at

t of mere age.
11E BEARS A FLOCK OF GOATS--EIS DAIRY--HIS DOMESTIC HABITS
AND STYLE 0]." LIVING--INCREASING PROSPERITY.

BEING now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as I have said
my ammunition growing low, 1 set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether 1 could not catch some of them
alive. I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the cats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own ma 'mg too, With a rent weight upon them; and several
times I put, ears of barlev and ry rice, without setting the trap; and
I could easily perceive that the gents had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At len [II I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, 1 ound them all
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discourab-
mg: however, 1 altered my traps; and one morning I found in one
otthem a large old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a
male and two temales.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so
fierce, l dursL not go into the it to him; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, whic was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end; so I even let him out, and he ran away, as if he had been
frightened out. of his wits. I went to the three kids, and taking them
one b one, I tied them with strings together, and with some ditficulty

broug it them all home.
8'-
It was a good while before they would feed; hut throwing them
some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they begun to he tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goats' flesh
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, erha is, I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. ut then it occurred to me, that I must keep the
tame from the wild. or else they would always run wild when the"
grew up; and the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so

 

gfi'octually, that those within might not break out, or those without
teak in.

But this was not all; for new I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I leased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the he-
giuning. I id not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now 1 set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when l was a
hay, al'tera great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, and also szdt (though I found it partly made to my
hand by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea), and
never wanted it afterwards.
It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my ma'esty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of a 1 my subjects at my
absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
away; and no rebels among all m subjects.

'I' tell to see how like a. kin!r I ined too, all alone, attended by my
servants; Poll, es if he had been my favourite, was the only mean
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now groom very o d and
crazy, and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on the
ot her, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour.

My own figure was uncouth enough. I had a great. high shapeless
cap, made of a. goat's skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well
to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain of? from running into
my neck ; nothin being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under t no clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and n pair of open-knead breeches of
the same; the breeches were. made of the skin of an old lie-goat,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like ante-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and s toes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either
side like spattcrdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind 0!
fro" on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a
little saw and a hatchet; one on one side and one on the other. I
had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the some manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one or
which hung in powder, in the other my shot. At my hackI carried
my basket, an on my shoulder my gun; and over my head a great
clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me, next. to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees ot
the equinox. My heard I had once sutl'crcd to grow till it was about
a narter of a yard long; but as I had both scissors and razor:
sut icient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had tr no cd into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such
as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustaehioa or whiskers,
I will not so they were long enough to hang my hat upon them, but.
they were 0 a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in
England, would have passed for frightful.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent with the
wall about it, under the rock, with the care behind me, which, by
this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within
another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a
door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, bevoud
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up Will] the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or
fifteen great. baskets, which would hold live or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provision, es )ecially my corn, some In
the candeut oli' short from the straw, and t 1e other rubbed out with
m han .

yAs for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those
piles rew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
sprea so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to
my one's view, of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little further within the land,
and u )OII lower ground, lay mv two pieces of com land, which I
kept uly cultivated and sowed, and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more com, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the. hedge which
encircled it. in constantly fitted up to its usual he: ht, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, whie at first were
no more than my stakes, but were now grown vcr firm and tall,
always out so, that they might. spread and grow thie ' and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which the did efi'eetuaily to my
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent. always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had made
me a squnb or cone 1, with the skins of the creatures I had killed,
and "'th other Soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as he-
longed to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a. great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my chief seat, 1 took up my country habitation.
UNEXPBCTED ALARM AND CAUSE POE APPBEHBNSION--HB FOB/I'l-
FIES HIS ABODB.

IT happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was
CXCCCK ingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition ; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a rising ground, to look further; I went up the shore and down the
shore, but it was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print. of a foot, toes, heel, and every
art of a foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
east imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts. like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself. I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on. but terrified
to the last degree; looking behind me at every two or three Ste )8,
niistukin every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a dis-
tance to c a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes my alfrlghted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what.
strange unaccountable whimsim came into my thoughts hy the way.
When I came. to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
this). 1 fled into it like one normed; whether I went over by the
ladder, as first. contrived. or went in at lhe hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I cannot i'cnimnher; no, nor could I renn'ndier
the next morning; for never frightened hare iled to cover, or fox to
earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

l presently concluded that it. must be some of the. savages of the
main land over against me, who had wandered out. to son in their
cunoex and. eilhendriven by the currents or by contrary winds. had
made the island, and had liven on shore, but were gone away again
to sea; living as loth, perhaps. to have stayed in this dCSUluto island
as I would have been to have had them.

 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankful in my thoughts that. l was so happy as not to he thercabouis
at that lime, or tliat they did not see my boat, by which they would
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps have searched further for me: then terrible thoughts racked
my imagination about their hnvintr l'ound my limit, and that there
were people here; and that if so, {should certainly have them come
again in greater numbers. and devour me: that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and
1 should perish at last for mere wont.

'l'hus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that. former eon-
fidence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience
as I had had of His goodness, as if He that had fed me bv miracle
hitherto could not nrescrvc. by His power, the provision \ilhich lie
had made for me by His goodness. I repmaehed myself with my
laziness, that would not sow any more corn one year than would
just. serve me till the. next, season, as if no accident would intervene
to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; and
this I thought so Just a reproof, that I resolved {or the. future to
have two or three year's corn beforehand. so that, whatever might
come, I might. not. perish for want of bread.

In the middle of these eogitations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it e:une into my thoughts one day, that all this might. be a mere
ehimera of my own, and that this font might be the print. of my
(out, when I came on shore from my beat; this cheered me up

 

a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion,
that; it was nothing eise but my own foot: and why might I not.
come that way from the heat, as well as I was going that way to
the boat? Again, I consid "ed also, that I could by no means tell
for certain, where I had trail: and where 1 had not. : and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, 1 had played the part
of these fools, who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions,
and then are frightened at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to loop abroad again, for I
had not stirred out of my castle for t-ltljt'c ays and nights, so taut. I
began to starve for provisions; for I had little or nothing within
d nu's but some barley cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want- of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the belief
that this was nothing but. the print. of one of my own feet,
and that 1 might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I beg:
to go abroad again, and went to my country house to milk my flock:
but. to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked be-
hind me, how 1 was ready. every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one think I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been latel most
terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as went
down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to
be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothing:r in it but,
am own imagination; but I could not persuade myself folly of this
till l should go down to the shore again, and see this print. of a foot,
and measure it. by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that. I might. be assured it was my own foot: but when 1
none to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that. when I
laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
ahout: secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own
foot, I found my foot. not so large by a great. deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that. I shook with cold like
one in an ague; and I went home again, filled \\ith the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be sur riscd before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security, knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
it deprivr-s them of the use of those means which reason oll'ers for
their relief. The first. thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then frequent. the
island in prospect of the same or like booty; then to the sim IlC
thing of digging up my two eorn fields, lest they should find sue l a
grain there, and still he prom )ted to frequent, the island; then to
demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
Mauritian, and be prompted to look'farthcr, in order to find out the
prawns inhabiting.

'i'nese were the subject of the first night's cogitations, after I was
come home again, white the . prehensious \\'llit"ll had so overrun my
mind wurc fresh upon me, andhny head a as full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifving than
danger itself when apparent. to the eyes; and we find the burden of
anxiety greater, by much. than the evil. which we are anxious about;
and, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resi-vnation I used to practise, that I hoped to have.
I lo: ked, I thought. like haul. who complained not only that the
l'h tines were upon him, but that God had forsaken him: for 1 did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God In my
distress, and resting upon his providence, as I had done before, for
my defenee and deliverance; which, if I had done, 1 had at least
been more cheerfully supportod HILit'I' this now surprise, and perhaps
carried through it wilh more rowlulinn. '

This confusion of my thoughts krpl mo nwnku all night; but in
the morning l l'rli asha-p; and having, h)" tho amnsonwnt of my
mind, horn as it were tin-d, and my spirits i-xhaustod, I slept very
soundly, and wukcd mm'h honor aompnsrd than 1 had ever been
ln'foro.

Now [ hogan sorrly to t'flpt'nt that I had dug m_ cavr so largo as
to bring: a door through ogaim uhir'h door, as l s. id. 0.me out ho-
)'ond wht-rv my i'ortilioat ion juimal to tho rock : npou maturvly non-
sidoriuq this, thvrvt'oru. l ri-solrrd to draw mo a wound fortification,
in tho .<<amn mannvr of a somn'irch'. at a distant-t: from my wall,
just whrrv I had phmtvd n donlilo row of trons ahnut lwclvo yours

ol'm't', of which I nunlo montion: thrso trros luu'ing been planted
So thick hol'orc. thry wank-d hut. few pilrsto ln: driven holwoen
thorn. that thuv might be thivlwr and slrongrr. and my wall would
[)0 soon tinish : su that I lmd now a doublo wall; and my outer
was thickouod with pirm's of timhor, old rahh's, and ort'rytliin I
could think of. to make it strong. having in it sow-u liitlo ho es,
zrhonl. as hi5: as I might put my arm out at. ln tho insidv of this
I thiokrm-d my wall to about. too fort thick, with routiinndiy bring-
in;r t'ul'l h out. of my rare, and i?l)iNSS{ it at the foot. of the wall, and
walking upon it -, and through tho snvon holrs l contrivvd to plant:
the. umskcls, of which l took notice that I. had got srron on shore
out of the ship: tin-so I planted like my 'uunon. and Iitlcd them
into frames, that hold Ihom like :1 carriage, so that I could lire all
tho sown guns in two miuulns' tinn-z this wall I Was mnny a weary
month in finishing, and yol. never thought, myself suit: till it was
dour.

\\'ln-n this was done, I stuck all tln- ground without. my wan, far
:1 great length ori'ry way, as l'ull with st kos, or sticks. of the osicr--
like wood, whivh I found so up! to grow. (Ls lhoy could \\'('ll stand;
insnmut-h, that l hrlivrc I might sol in nmr twenty thousand of
thorn. having: a prvtly largo spam. hotwoou thrm and my wall, that
I might have room to son an onumv, and tin-y might hurt: no . mllcr
from the young: trot-s, if they nitt'mptml to approach my outer wall.

Thus, in two yours' "mo. 1 had a lhirk grow; mnl in lire 0r six
yr-ars' tinn' l lmd a wood hc-l'o-w' ':-y (i\\'t'iiil r, growing so monstrous
thick and strong, that it w ' mod pt't' ._tl_y impuSsahlt; and no
mon of what kind snort-r, "unhl r imagino that thorn. was :mythilr
hoyomtn, mnrh loss :1 haliilation. .\s fortho way in which 1 proposci
to mysc-ll' to 9:0 in and out. (for i left no avmmc,) it. was by setting
two laddors, run: to a. purl, of "to rock which was low, and that
broke in, and loft room In placi- :.-|otht':r ladder upon that; so when
the two iaddors \Vct't' lakrn down, no mm) living could come down
to on: Without doing himsi-ll' nun-hint; and it' they had come down,
they were still H) Lin: outside ol my outer wall.

9 K
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they we;
not altogether without just rcnson, though I foresaw nothing a":
that time more than my more {car suggested to me.

While this was doing, 1 was not altogether careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern for my little herd of goats; they
were not only a ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
he sullicicnt for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.

For this purpose. after long consideration, I could think of but
two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient

 

place to dig a care under ground, and to drive them into it eve
night; and the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of lau ,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as 1 could, where
I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each place ; so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouhle and time; and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.

Accordintrly, I 5 out some time to find out the most retired parts
of the island; andpi pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed,
as my heart could wislr for; it was a little damp piece of round, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where as is 0 served, I
almost lost myself once before, endeaveuring to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece of
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an enclosure bv nature ; at lvust it did not want ncnr so much

labcaur to make it so as the other News of ground 1 had worked so
bar at. '
PRECAUTIONS AGAlNS'E SURFIIISE--MBIXSON hlSCOTERS THAT ms
ISLAND HA8 BEE-N VISITED BY CANNIBALS.

1 unison-rem went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you lease, who were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to he, were well enough secured in it; so, with-
out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-
goats to this iece; and when they were there I continued to perfect
the fence, til I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour 1 was at the expense of purely from my apprehen sious
on the account of the rint of a man's feet which I had seen; for,
as yet, I never saw any unnau creature come. near the island; and I
had new lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my
life much less comfortable than it was before. as may be well imagined
by any one who knows what it is to live in the constant share of the
fear of man.

After I had thus secured one part. of my little living stock, I went
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great dislance. I had
found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me; and
this was so remote. that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, 1 did not know, but as I descended

n2
front the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I
resolved to so no tnurcont without a perspective glass itt my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where,
indeed, I had never been before, I was presently convinced that. the
seeing the print of it man's foot. was not such a strange thntg tn the
islattd as I imagined; and, but. that it. was a speetal providence that
I was cast. upon the side of the island where the Savages nerereamc,
I should easily have known that. not hing was more frequent. than for
the canoes from the main, when they hap )ened to be too far out. at
sea, to shoot. over to that. side. of th ..ltttt for harbot'r ; likewise, as
they often met and fought. in their canoes, the victors having taken
any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, aeeordino
to their drcutdt'ul customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and
eat. them; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore. as I said above,
being.r the south-west. point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded attd amazed; nor is it. possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at. St't'lllf.' the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other l)n!l('s of human bodies; and. particularly, I ob-
servrd a place where there. had been a tire tnade, and a eirele
dua- itt the earth, like a coekpit, where I supposed the savage
wretehes had sat down to their inhuman l'eastings upon the bodies
of their l't-ltmtzereat ares

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while:
all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of
inhuman brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of it often, yet lnever had so
near a view of before.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost :ttl'ectiou of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes,
gave God thanks, that had east my first lot in a part. of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these;
attd that, though I had esteemed my present. condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many comforts in it, that 1 had still more
to give thanks for than to complain of : and this, above all, that I
had, even in this miserable condition, been emut'orted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a
felicity more than sulliciently equivalent to all the misery I had
sntl'ered or mold sutl'er.

I could not think of ever making- any more attempts to bring the
other heat. round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea: in which .l' I had happened to have fallen
into their hands, I knew what would have, been my lot.

Time. and the stttistiu'titm I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to wear oll' my uneastueSs about;anvauronns or uonmsou cnoson. 101

them; and I eager: to live just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this difference, that I used more cuul ion, and kept
my eyes more about me, than I did before, lost I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firipg my gun, lest any of them being on the island should happen
to rear it.
it would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended
to be, to set down all the contrivunces I hatched, or rather hrooded
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in live or six pounds of gunpowder,
which, when they kindled their lire, would eonsmlurntlyr take lire,
and blow up all that was near it; but as, in the lirst place, I should
be unwilling to waste so ranch ponder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its going: off at a certain time, when it might. surprise them:
and, at best, that. it would little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sulIieient to make them forsake
the place 2 so I laid it aside; and then n'oposed that I would place
myself in ambush in some convenient pace, with my three guns all
double-loanled, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at. every shot: and then falling in upon them with my three
islo's and my sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty
should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that l was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several days to find our. proper places to put myself in mnbuseudc,
as I said, to watch for them; and [went frequently to the place
itself, which was now "I'D"'ll more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus filled Willi thoughts of revenge, and u puttin twcnt
or thirty of them to the sword as I may call it, the iorror
had at. the place, and the signals of the barbarous wretehes devour-
ing one another, abetted my malice. Well, at. length, 1 found a.
place in the side of the hill, where l was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw any of their heats coming; and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
imo some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely; and there 1 might sit and
observe all their fearful doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to
inmossihle that I. should miss my shot, or that I should fail woundin
three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then, I
resolved to fix my design; and, accordingly, I prepared two
musket-s and my ordinary lowling-pieoe. The two muskets I loaded
9' '
with a brace of sings each, and four or live smaller bullets, about
the. size of pistoLhullets; and the fending-piece I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: I also loaded my
pistols with four bullets each; and in this posture, well provided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, 1 prepared myself
for my expedition.

After 1 had thus laid the scheme of my design. and, in my
imagination, put. it in practice, I continually made my tonr every
morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I
called it, about three miles, or more, to see it' 1 could observe any
boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least. appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
way. '

its long: as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the rigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while. in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an ofl'ence, which 1 had
not. at. all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further
than my tassious were at first. tired by the horror 1 conceived at the
nnnatura custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had
been sull'ercd by l'rm'idemw, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated
passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely by Heaven, and actuated by
some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. But now, when,
as l have said. l began to he weary of the fruitless excursion, which
1 had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion
of the action itsclt' began to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in: what
authority or call 1 had to pretend to be jndwa and executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so
many ages, to sull'er, unpunished, to go on, and to be, at it were, the
executioner-s of his judgnmnts one upon another
MBIXSOY DISCOVEILS A CAVE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT
AGAINST THE SAVAGES.

IN this disposition I continued for near a year after this. I kept
myself more retired than over, and seldom went from my cell, except
upon my constant employment. viz. to milk my she-goats, and man-'
age my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out. of danger; for certain it is, that
these sum is people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came
with any t mughts of finding anything here, and eonseqnentl never
wandered oil" from the coast; and I doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautions, as well as before.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess
that those anxieties, these constant dangers I lived m, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to all
the contrivanecs that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands
than that of my food. I cared not. to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood new, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a. gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I
was intolei-ahly uneasy at making any lire, lest the smoke, which E:
visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed that part of my business which required fire,
such as burning of pets, iies, &c. into my new apartment in the
woods; where. after I has can some time, I found. to my unspeek~104 anvmrentzs or nomnsott caosoz.

able consolation, a. mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in: nor, indeed, would
my man else, but one who, like me, want-ed nothing so much as a
sale retreat.

While I was cutting down some. wood here, I terceired that he-
ltind a very thick branch of low brttshwootl. or under-wood, there was
it. kind of hollow place : l was curious to look in it, and getting with
ditlieulty into the month of it, 1 found it was pretty large: that is
to say, sullieient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another

 
   
 

/_

0/ .,//M/.

with me: but. I must confess to you that I made more haste out
than I did in, when, looking further into the place, and which was
perfectly dark, I s v two broad shining eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two st. '5, the dim light from the eave's inottth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. l'lneking up my courage, I
took up a tirebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick tlttming in
my hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half expressed, and tlten it deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that, it: put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had a hat- on my head, I will not answer
for it, that, my hair might not have lifted it ofl'. But still pluckinnr
up my spirits as well as I could, and cncouragingmyselt' a little wit

considering that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward ( 1vain, and by
the light of the lirehrand, holding it. up a little over my road, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous, frightful old lie-goat, just
making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed,
of more old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essaycd to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought. with myself he might even he there; for if he had frightened
me. so he would certainly fright any of the savzwes, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while liezhad any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and begtut to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it
might. be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of Nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that it re-
quired me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-hex, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-lire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles
of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tal-
low, but was hard set. for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or
rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a reed like neltlcs) ; and
going into this low place, I was ohlirred to creep upon all fears, as I

are said, almost ten yards; which, b the way, I thought was a
venture hold enou h, considerinw that I new not how far it. might
go, nor what was cyond it. When I had got through the strait, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island. I dare say, as it was, to
look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave Lthc wall reflected
a hundred thousand ..liglits to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather supposed it to he, I knew not. The place I
was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp :r wet on the sides or roof: the cal dilliculty in it was
the enhance; which, however, as it was a p ace of security, and
such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a eopvcnience; 'so
that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those thinos which I was most anxious about
to this lace; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine
of pow er, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all: so I
kept at my castle only live, which stood ready mounted like pieces
of cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my annmnrition, I
happened to open the barrel of powder which 1 took up out of the
sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the water had pene-
tratcd about three. or four inches into the powder on every side,
which caking and growing- hard. had preserved the inside. like a ker-
nel in the shell ; so that I had near sixty pounds of very good pow-
der itt the centre ot' tlte cask : this was a very agreeable discovery to
me at. that time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of )U\\'(lt'l' with me in m_\_' castle, for fear of a
sunrise of any kind: I also carried thither allthc lead 1 had left for
httl ets.

l fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes iii the rocks, where none could route
at them; for I persuaded art-sell". while I was here, that it" live
hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out ; or,
if they did, they would not venture to attack me item. The old
goat. whom I found expiring. died in the month of the cave next
day after I made this tltseovery: and I found it. mneh easier to dig
u gran. hole there, and throw him in attd cover him witlt earth, than '

to drag him out ; so I interred him there, to prevent ott'cnco to my
nose.

 

I was now iii the twenty-third year of my residence in this island ;
and was so naturalised to the place, and the manner of livin , that
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that. no savages \voul come
to tlte duct: to disturb me, I could have been content to have capito-
lated or s ending the rest of my time there, even to the last
moment, ti l I ltad laid me down and died, like the old goal in the
cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass a real. deal more pleasantly with me than
it did before; as, first, I hat taught. my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so artieulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me: for I believe no bird ever
Spoke plaiucr; and he lived with me no less than six and-twetnf'
itars: how long he might have lived afterwards I know not, thougt

know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving eomsanion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time. and then ied of mere old

c. As for my cats, they multiplied to that degree. that l was
0 )liged to shoot several of them at. first, to keep them from devour.
tag me and all 1 had; but, at length, when the two old onesl
brought with me were gone, and alter some time continually drivin
them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all
ran wild into the woods, exec t two or three favourites, which]
kept tame, and whose young, w ien they had any. I always drowned;
and these were part of m lamily. Besides these, I alwavs kept two
or three household kids Mont inc, whom I taught to feed out of my
hand; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all eall ltohin Crusoe, lint none like my lirst; nor, indeed,
did I take lhopnins with any of them [hot I had done with him. I
had also several tame sea-lowls, whose names I knew not, that!
caught. upon [he shore, and cut. their win _; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall eing now rown up to a

rod thick grove, these fowl: all lived among these ow trees, and
filed there, which was very vreeable to me: so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led, if l
could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But. it was
otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz. lion-
freqnentl , in the course of our lives, the evil which in itselfwe seek
most to s run, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the allliction we are taller.
into. Icould give many examples of this in the course of an ht.-
aecountahle life, but. in nothing was it more particularly rcmarltaoto
than in the circumstance of my last years of solitary residence in
this island.
ANOTHER VISIT 0? TM: SW \4';
Manchu

 

'S--lllllllNNlly SEES Tllli'l DANCINO'
.5 THE "'ilEl'K Ul' A \l-..\'SI'CL.

 

IT was now the month of Dccmnhcr. as l snid above, in my lwvnly.
third _\mr; and this bring lhc sunllu-ru solslilcc (for wintrr l cm
not. cull it), was [he pziriiciflur lime of my lmrvusl, :nul ntquirl-d my
living much abroad in the liclds; when going nut pretty early
in the morning, mun hvl'uro, it was thorough daylight, I was
snrprisvd wiih swing a lighl of some lire. upon lhc slmrc, at. u. dis~
lance from me of about lwo miles, towards the mid of the island
win-r0. 1 had ohsurrrd sunu- savages had hum, as below; and not
on llu' other side, bul, to my great alllicLiun, it was on my side ol'
the island.

I was indcrd terribly surprised at the. siglil., uud slapped slmrl.
within my grove, not during to go out, 1051. 1 might be surprised;
and yet 1 had no mun: p 'ucc \\'lllllll,'fl'0lll lhc upprulmusiuns l
had that if these savages, in rumbling orcr the island, should find
my corn slunding or cm, or any of my works znld iniprovmm'uls,
llu'y would nnnu-dmlvly conclude that thou: wrrc pvoplc in lhu
dun>>, and would Ihvu now-r giro m'cr lill lhvy hud l'nund nu: nut.
in Hus vxtrr-nnly, I went. buclx dirl'ully to my cualh', pullrd up the
ludlh-r uhvr luv, and made all things without luck us wild and us
nului'ul us 1 could.

Then I prrpurrd myself within, pulling myself in a posturc of
defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say,
my muskets. which were mounted it )0" tnv new fortification, and
all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last. gasp; not
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of
the barbarians. 1 continued in this posture about. two hours; and
began to be mighty impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had
no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and musing
what. I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in i -
noranee any longer; so setting tip my ladder to the side of the ltil ,
where there was a flat. place, as I observed before, and then pull-
ing the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and tnonnted to the
top ofthc hill; and pulling out. my perspective glass, which I had
taken on puriose, I laid me down tlat on the ground, and began
to look for no place. I presently found there were no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small tire they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbar-
ous diet. of human flesh, which they had brought with them, whe-
ther alive or dead I could not. tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the r ttnrn of the tlood to go away again. It. is not easy
to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me too; but.
when I considered their coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, I be an, afterwards, to be tnore sedate in my mind, being
Sit'JSIlCd. that might go abroad with safety all the time of the title
of tlood, if they were not on shore before; and havinv made this
observation, I went abroad about my harvest Work with the more
content-ire.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the title made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call
it.) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before
they treat off, they went. a dancing; and I could easily discern their
post-tires and gestures by my glass. I could not. perceive, by my
nicest observation, but that they were stark naked, attd had not. the
least. covering upon them; but: whether they were men or women,
1 could not. distinguish.

As soon as I saw them stripped and one, I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and two pistols tn my nfite, and my rent, sword by
my side, without a seabhard, and wit.) all the spec I was able to
make, went away to the hill where 1 had discovered the first appear~
ance of all; and as seen as I got thither, which was not in less than
two hours (for I could not go apace, being so loadeu with arms as
l was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at:
that place; and looking out. farther, I saw they were all at. sea to-

10
gather, making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight to me,
especially as, going: down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror, which the dismal work they had been ulmnt had left. behind
it, Viz. the blood, the hours, and part of the flesh, of human bodies.
eaten and devoured by those wn-tehes with merriment. aml sport.
I wore. out. a year and three months more before I ever saw any
more of the savages.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen mentlus'
interval, was very great; I slept nuquiet, dreamed always fright.
ful dreams, and often started out. of my sleep in the night; in the
day. great trouhles ovvrwhelmed my mind ; and in the night,
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and 0f the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it. H was in the. middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for I marked all upon the post still; l say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that. it blew a very reat. storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of ligltlning and thmu er, and a very foul night it
was after it. I knew not what was the particular oeeasion of it,
but as I was reading- in the liihle, and taken up with very serious
thoughts about. my present condition. l was surprised with the noise
of a gun, as l thought. tired at sea. This was, to he sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met. with before; for the
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I
started up in the. greatest haste imaginable. and. in a triec, clapped
my ladder to the. middle place of the rock, and pulled it. after me;
and mounting it the second time, got. to the top of the hill the ver
moment that a flash of tire hid me listen for a second gun, whie
accordingly, in about half a minute, l heard; and, by the sound.
knew that. it was from that part of the sea where l was driven down
the current in my boat. I inmediately considered that this must.
be some ship in distress, and that. they had some comrade, or some
other ship in companv, and tired these. guns for signals of distress,
and to obtain hel . I had the presence of mind, at that. minute, to
think that thougt I could not help them, it. might be they might
help me: sol brought together all the dry wood I could get at.
hand, and making a good handsrme pile, I set. it on tire upon the
hill. The. wood was dry, and hlazed freely; and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it hurut fairly out: so that. l was certain. it
there was any sneh thing as a ship, they must needs see it. ; and ac
doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire hlazed up I heard another
gun, and aft crthat. several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my tire all night. long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day.
and the air cleared it . I saw something at. a great distance at sea,
full cast of the island: whether a sail or a hull I could not distin-
guish, no. not with my glass; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazr also ; at least it. was so out at. sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that. it
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor;
and being eager, you mu he sure, to be satisfied, 1 took my gun in
m hand, and ran towurr 3 the south side of the island, to the rocks
w terc 1 had formerly been carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being .rfeetly clear, I could
plmnly see, to m grent sorrow, the wreck ol a ship, cust away in
the ni ht upon t. lese concealed rocks which I found when I wns out
in my out; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
strcum, nnd made a kind of counter-strenin, or eddy, were the ocea-
sion of m recovering from the most des crate, hopeless condition
that ever iv hnd been in, in all my life. l'hus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it. seems these men, who-
ever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholl under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wiml )lowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as 1 must
necessarilv sn most: they did not, they must, as l thou ht, have en-
denvoured to have saved themselves on shore by the ielp of their
boat; but their tiring otl' guns for help, es iceially when they saw, as
l inmgiued, my tire, tilled me with many roughts: First, I imagined
that. upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their
bent, and endeavoured to make the shore; but that. the sen goi
very high, they mi ht. hnve been enst uwny: other times 1 ilnagin'dfi
that they might iuve lost their hoot before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship. which many times obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or
shi )8 in company, who, upon the signals of distress the had made,
ha taken them up and curried them otl': other times I nncied they
were all gone oil to son in their boat, and being hurried arm by the
current that I had been formenly in, were carried out into t to great
ocean, where there was not hing but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps, they might by this tune he starving, and in a condition to
think of eating one another.
HE VISITS THE "'REFK AND OBTAIXS MANY STORES FROM 11---
.-\G.-\L\' TIHXKS UP QUITIING THE ISL-13!).

".111 1. I110 Inst. IfI-zn' (If III) licinn' (In this island, I never knew II III'IIIN'
'IIII'IIcrc suIIIl unI III III II xliip III' III; and IIIIII only IIIc :IflIiI'IiIIII,
some daI's IIIIcI' II) S('(' IiIC' I'OIPSC M II dI()\':)|('.Il bIII' come on SIIIIIC
III the uiid of tho island \IlIiI'II "as next the sliipIIIeI-k. "C II. Id no
clothes 011 but :I SCIIIIII'III \IIIisIcozII, a Pull' oI opI-n- -an'.I'd "III'II
(ilfl\\(lSS, and :I MHI' IiIII II slIiII lIuI IIIIIIIiIIg III IIiIII'I IIII'. so much
as II) guI~s_s "imi IIIIIiInI IIc "II: (II he had DuIIIIIin" in his pIII'kI'Is
but No 'IICCIfi-OII- IiuiII and :I Iulmcco pipe :----I.lIc IDIsI "as to me of
ten IiIIIIs mow IIIIIII: IIIIIII iilI' IiIsI..

It "In; now calm, and I III-III a gIT'nI mind to ICIIIuI'c out in my
boat Io IIIis "Ink, not. IIIIIIIIIIIIga Inn 1 IIIigIII IInd SUIIlCIlIng IIII
bIIInII IIII-II might. be usIIIII I0 nn'. lIuI IIIzII Ilid IIUI flung-III"

fess IIII' so IIIIIIII, as "w possibility IIIIII. Ilicrc IIIIL'iIl ht? VI'I. some
iIiIIg ('IMHIIIIII' on IIIIIIIII, I. Jump "In 1 IIIIf'lII not only :II'I', but
min-III. by snIiIIg LIIIII iiil'. ('i'UIIIIUII III) 0"" III IIIIII I'IsI (iI'glIC. And
IIIis IIIIIIiL'iII I'lnng so In In) IIIIIII Mint 1 ('Ullid HM. lJI' IIIieI night
In dIII, hi" I IIIIIsI I'IIIIIIII: Inn. in mI' mm on houlti IiIis IIIIIk; .
IInII CInInniIIing Ilu' II'SI In God's pIuIichIce, I IIIIIIIqIII; Iln im-
pression II': Is so sIIIIIIg II um my mind IIIIIt it could DOI- IJI'I' iI'Il
that it must. (mm: I'Ioni SUIIII' invisible diII'cIion, and IIIIII lslIonlIl
be \I'aIIIiII-v III much if i did no! <<70

Under Inc meI r of this nnprv :iun. I hastened back to my nsIIc,
propzned ('ICIVIIIIIEg IIII- my Imago "Mk II quantity 01 head, :I <<,m III,
put of flesh \I'I'aII' _. a compass [0 sII'I-rhy, II boII.Ic_ of rum II'III'I
had still a great dad of III-III 1ch) Ind a biIsI-Ict of misins- and InnsADVENTURES or 110313301: cnusoe. n3

loading myself with everythin necessary, I went down to my boat,
got the outer out of her, put ier afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home vain for more. My second cargo was a great
bag of rice, the umbrefla to set up over my head for a shade, another
larue ot of freshwater, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or bar cy-cnkcs, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a
cheese: all which, with rent labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
and haying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and rowing, or
paddiing, the canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost
point oi the island on the north-east side.

Having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped

out, and sat me down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and

 

anxious, hetwccn fear and desire. about my voyage: when, as I was
musing, 1 could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood

game on; upon which my going was impracticable for so many
ours. -

I resolved, the next. morning, to set out. with the first of the tide.
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the great
watch-cont I mentioned, I launched out. I went at agreat rate directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I come u to it. It was a
dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its buil ing, was Spanish,
stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the stern zmdquarter of hr 1-
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her fol-castle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with cat violence, her mainmast
and foremost was brought by the boar , that is to say, broken short
08'; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared

firm. Ellen I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her. who,
i
seeing me coming, yelpcd and cried; and as .soon as I called him
jumped into the. sea to come to me. I took. huu into thc'hont, but
found him almost dead with hunger and lllll'sL I gave him a cake
of mv bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf flint had been
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, will: which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, lwrnt on board; but the first sight
1 met with was two men drowned in the cook room, or forecastlc of

 

the ship. with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as
indeed reliable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea bro '6 so high, and so continually over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had been under water. BeSIdcs
the dog, there was nothing: left. in the ship that had lil'e; nor any
goods, that I could son, but what were spoiled by the water.

[ found, however, besides several chests. a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got inlo my boat. with much
dilllculty. There were several muskcls in the cabin, and a great
powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it: as ~for the
muskcts. I had no occasion for them, so I left. them, but took the
powder-horn. I tool: afirc-shovcl and tong-s, which I wanted ex-
tremely; as also two little brass kettles, a cop )er pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron : and with this cargo, an the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and thesame evening,
about an hour wilhin night, I reached the island again, weary and
{aligned in the lust degree. I reposcd that night. in the boat; and
in the morning I resolved to harbour what I had got in my new
cave, and not carry it home to mv castle. All er refreshing myself,
I l all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
I ound on emptying the chest among other things some very good
shirts, which were very weleome to me; and about a dozen and a
half of white linen hamlkerehiel's and coloured neekeloths; the
former was also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Upon the whole, [got very little by this voy-
age that was of an use to me: for, as to some money, I had found
1 had no manner 0 occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt. under
my feet; and I would have given it all for three or four pair oi
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted,
hut haul none on my feet for many years.

I lived in this condition near two years more; all the time filled
with projects and (ll'5i"|lSS, how, if it were possible, I might get. away
from this island; and? believe verily, ifl had the heat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.

It. was one of the nights of the rainy season in March, the four-
nnd-tweutieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitari-
uess, I was laying in my d awake. I had no uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so

as to sleep; no, not a wink all night. long, otherwise than as
follows:

I ran over the whole histor of my life by nbridgment, as I may
call it, to my coming to this is and; and also since I came to this
island. In my reflections it you the state of my case, since I came
here, I was comparing the tappy posture of my affairs in the first

ears of m habitation, with the life of anxiety, tear, and care, which
had live ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand.

Then I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years; and how 1 had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquility, when peril )5 nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approac I of night,
had been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that. of
falling into the hands of cannihnls and savages. I would unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my
great Preserver, to whom all t rese unknown di-liverances were due.

I made this conclusion, however. that. my only way to go about
an attempt for an escape, was, if mssihle, to get a savage into my
possession ; and, if possible, it s ould be one of their risoncrs
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring,r t tither to
kill; but these thoughts were still attended with this ditficulty, that
it was im ossible to effect this without attackinv a whole caravan of
them, on killing them all; and my heart trenrhIed at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was r my deliverance.

However, after many disputes with myself, I determined, if
possible, to et one of the savages into my hands, cost what it would:
so I resolver? to put myself upon the watch to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event.

19
ROBINSON RESCUES ONE 01" THE!" CAPTIVBS FROM THE SAVAGES,
WHOM 11E NAMES FRIDAY, AND MAKES lllS SERVANT.

ABOUT 5 year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by
long musing had. as it. Were, resolved them into nothing, for want
of an occasion to )Hi', them into execution), l. was surprised, one
morning early, witi seeing no lees than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island. and the people \\'llO belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The. number of them broke
all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that. they
always ezune four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it>>, or how to take my measures, to attack
tu'eutr or thirty men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, per-
plexed and discomforted: however. I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that 1 had formerly provided, and was just
ready for act-ion, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set. my guns at. the fool of my ladder, and clam-
l)ercd u ) to the top of the hill. by my two staves, as usual; stand-
ing 30' imvever, that my head did not appear allure the hill, so that:
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the
help of my pcrs cctive. glass. that they were no less than thirty in
number; that t ey had a fire kindled, and. that. they had meat
dressed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but
the were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures
audyfi 'urcs, their own way, round the lire.

While 1 was thus looking on them, 1 perceived, by my .rspec--
tive, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, wrere, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now bronvrht out for the
slaughter. l perceived one of them immediatel fufi, being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden swor , for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that Very moment,
this poor wretcb seeing himself a little at. liberty, and unbound,
nature inspired him with ho res of life, and he started awzy from
them, and ran with incredible swift-ness along the sands, Iil'ectly
towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast where my habi-
tation was. I was dreadfully frightened, 1 must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by the whole body. lion-ever, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him ; and still more was I encouraged
when 1 found that. he outstri ped them exceedingly in running, and

ained ground of them, so not if he could but hold it for half an
our, I saw easily he would fairly got away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I men-
tinned often in the first part of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but longing in, swam through in about thirt
strokes, or thereabouts, anded, and ran on with execedin strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the eree , I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but; went no
further, and soon after went softly back 'n; which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the end. observed that the two
who swam were yet more titan twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant,
and that I was called plainl by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediatey ran down the ladders with all

ossible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
out of the ladders, as 1 observed above, and getting up again, with
the same haste, to the top of the lull, I crossed toward the sea, and
having a very short cut, and all down hill, laced myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, ha ooiug aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at118 [raven-runes or nonmson <<reason.

are as at. them; but. I beckoned with my hand to him to come back:
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked hirrI
down with the stock of my piece. I was loth to tire, because I
would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being cut of sight of the smoke too,
they would not. have easily known what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down. the other who pursued him stopped, as if
he had been frightened, and 1 advanced apacc towards him: but as
I came nearer, l )erer'ived presently he. had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to shoot at me. : so 1 was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at. the first. shot. The poor
savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen and killed. as he thought, yet was so frightened with the tire-
aud noise of my piece. that. he stood stock still, and neither came
forward nor went backward. though he secured rather inclined to
fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him to come forward,
which be easily understood, and came a little way; then stopped
again, and then a little further, and then stopped again; and 1
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as it' he had been taken
wisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were.
l beckoned to him again to come to me, and ve him all the signs
of encouragement that. I could think of ; migraine came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for having saved his life. I smiled at. him, and
looked )leasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at
length ie czune close to me; and then he kueeled down again,
kissed the ground, and laid his head u ion the ground, and taking
me by the foot, set mv foot upon his head: this, it. seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed but, stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself ; so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not. dead: upon this he spoke some words to
me. and tin agh I could not understand them, yet I thought they
"we please it. to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that. u had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-live
years. But there was no time for reflections now; the savage who
was knoekc: down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the
ground, and l perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but
when 1 saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if 1
would shoot itim : upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword which hung naked in a belt
by my side, which I did, He no sooner had it, but. he runs to his
enemv, and, at one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no execu-
toner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought ve strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a swor in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it. seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will
out OK heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in sign of
triumph, and brou ht me the sword again, and with abundance o!
gestures, which I id not understand, laid it down. But that which
astonished him mest was to know how ] killed the other Indian so
far oll' : so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
him; so I bade him go as well as I could. When he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one
side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet hurl made,
which, it seems, was just. in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no nrcat quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, For he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with
sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
so I made signs to him ugah to do so. He fell to work; and, in
an instant, he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, Li
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also: I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
I conveyed him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
farther part of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in rent distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I ma e signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him
a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a b anket upon it,
which I used to sleep u on myself semetimes; so the poor creature
lay down and went to s cop.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectl well-made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and we] shaped, and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He' had a very od coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to rave some-
thing very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an Luropean in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his
forehead very high and large; and a. great vivanity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black,
out very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive-colour, that had something in it ve
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. _ His face was ronn
Ind plump; his nose small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white as
ivor .

Alter he had slumbcred, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the enclosure 'nst. by: when he espicd me,
he came running to me, laying himself own avain upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thank ul disposition, makinv
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his hen
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the signs to
me of subjection. servitude, and submission imaginable. to let me
know how he would serve me as long as he lived. l understood

 

him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to
speak to me: and, first. I let. him know his name should he FRIDAY,
which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time. I likewisg taught him to say Master: and then let. him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some mill:
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him. and sop
my bread in it -, and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly conmlicd with, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know that I
would give him some clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he
. was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had buried
'the two men, he pointed exactly to the spot, and showed me the
marks he. had made to find them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up um, and eat them. At this I appeared very
angry, expressed my a horrencc of it, and beckoned with my handoverruns m noaxssos causos. 131

b him to come away, which he did immediately, with rent submis-
sion. 1 then led him up to the top of the hill, to see ' his enemies
Vere gone; and pulling out in glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
fines where they had been, ut no appearance of them or their
canoes: so that it was plain they were gone; and had left their
two comrades behind them, wit bout any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery ; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Frida
with me, iving him the sword in his hand, with the how an
arrows at is back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carrv our gun for me, and I two for myself ; and awn
we marched to the place where these creatures had been, for I ha
a mind now to get some further intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me, at the horror of the speetnnle: indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothin of it. The place was covered with hunmn bones. the
groun dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant. l'east they had been mukin there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three sculls, live ands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday, by his 8' ns, made me understand that
they brought over four prisoners to cast upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and that he, ointinieto himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great attle tween them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number omrisoners; all which were carried to
several places by those who h taken them in the tight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those
the brou ht hither.

Iy cause Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, and flesh, and
whatever remained, and luy them together in a beep, and make a
great the upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst
not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know that I
would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair
of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest 1
mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a jerktn ol
goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I was now grown I
tolerable good tailor); and I gave him a good cap, which I made 01

nui'e's skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and time ll
11
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It- is
true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at first: wearing the.
drawers was ver awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
gnlled his shoul ers, and the inside of his arms; but after a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himseh
to them, he took to them at length very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for -
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first. As there was a door or
entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, :1 little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the inside, I

 

barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that "ii?
could in no way come at me In the inside of my innermost w ,
without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs
waken me: for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
bill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap door,
which, if it had been attenuated on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a great noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere servant than Frida was to me; without pas-
sions. sullenness, or designs, perfectly ohliged and engaged--his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I
dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God. in his providence,
and in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
so great a. part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the some reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the some sence of grati~
tude, sincerity, iihelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
reccuving good, that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exerting these they are as ready, nay, more
ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed,
than we are.

With my new companion I was reatly delighted, and made it my
business to teach him everything t rat was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; at especially to make him speak, and
understand me when I spoke: and he was the nptest sciolar that
ever was; and particular y was so merry, so constant] diligent, and
so pleased when he could but understand me, or ma e me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could I have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place where I lived.
ROBINSON INSTRUCTS AND Cn'lLlZl-IS HIS MAN FRIDAY--ENDEAVOUR
TO GIVE ill." AN IDEA OP CHRISTIANITY.

AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Friday oil' from his hand wav of feeding,
and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh; so 1 took him out. with me one morning to the woods.
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of to own flock, and
bring it- home and dress it; but as I was going, saw a. she-gout
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I
caught hold of Friday;--" Hold," said 1; "stand slill ;" and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately I presented my iece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who ha , at a distance,
indeed, seen we kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor
could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or crceived 1 had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whet er he was not
wounded, and, as I found )resently, thought I was resolved to kill
him; for he came and knecled down to me, and embracing my knees.mum-mus or nuances censor. 125

said a great many things I did not understand; but I could easily
see the meanin was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon foun a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm ; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw
a great fowl, like a hawk, sitt' upon a tree, within shot; so to let
Friday understand a little what would do, I called him to me . in,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thong it it
lad been a hawk, I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and
to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall,
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird:
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediatel he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwit standing
all 1 had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed. because
he did not see me 'put an thing into the gun, but thought that there
must be some won crful und of death am destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, or bird, or any thing near or far off ; and
the astonishment this created in him was such, as could not wear
off for along time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after ; but he would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not
to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did,
but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
flultered away a good distance from the place where she fell: how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and hrou ht her to me; and as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun efore, I took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that
1 might be ready for any other mark that mi ht present; but
nothing more altered at that time: so I brought home the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as wellas I -
could; and having a pot fit for that purpose,l boiled or stewed
some of the ilcsh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very lad
of it, and liked it vex well: but that which was strangest to iim,
was to see me eat s twith it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his mouth, he
seemed to nauseste it, and would spit and sputter at it, washin
his mouth with fresh water after it- on the other hand, I too
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I pretenlcd to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do; he would never can: for salt with his meat or in hil

broth : at least, not a great while, and then but very little.
11'
Having thus fed him with hoiled meat. and broth, I was resolved
to feast. lnm the next day with roastingr a piece of the kid: this 1 did,
by hangin" it before the lire on a string, as I had seen mnnv people
do in lbngand, selling two roles up one each side of the lire, and
one across on the top, mu tying the string to the cross stick,
let-tin the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much:
but w icn he came to taste the flesh, he took so man ways to tell
me how well he liked it, that Iconld not but understan him ; nndat
last he told me. as Well as he could, that. he Would never out man's
flesh any more, which 1 was very glad to hear.

The. next day I set him to work to healinn' some corn out, and

. . . . O
sifting it In the manner 1 used to do, as I observed before ; and he

 

soon understood how to do it. as well as I, especially after he had
seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of
it. : for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that having two months to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a
larger quantity of cdm than I used to do: so I marked out. a larger

icce of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before,
In which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully : and I told him what. it. was for; Ihat it was
for corn to make more broad, because he was now with me, and
thatI might. have enough for him and myself too. He appeared
very SCllSlble of that part, and let me know that he thou'rhtl
had much more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I would tell
him what to do.shamans or nontnsox cnasne. 127

This was the pleasuntest year of all the lifeI led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost every thing I hnd occasion to call for, and of every place I
had to send him to, and talked a great. dt'lti to me; so thttt, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that. is to say, about
speech. Besides tlte leasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the fol ow himself: his Simple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every day, and I began really to
love the creature; and, on his side, I believed he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.

Iliad a mind once to try if he had any hankerm" inclination to
his own country again; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost. any question, I asked him " whether
the nation that he belonved to never cont tiered tn battle?" At
which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we a ways tight the better : "
that is, he meant, always get the better in light; and so we began
the following discoursezm '

Masren. "You always fight the better? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday 2'"

FRIDAY. "1}? nation beat much, for all that."

Masrea. " ow heat? If your nation bc'at them, how came
you to be taken?"

Futon. " They more money than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand."

Mas-tea. "But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then? "

Futon. " They run one, two, three, and the, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that. time "

MASTER. " Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?"

Futon. " Yes, my nation eat man's too; eat all up."

MASTER. "Where do they carry theta P"

Futon. " Go to other place. where they thit '."

MASTER. " Do they come hither? "

FRIDAY. " Yes, yes, they come lnther; come other else place."

MASTER. " Have you been here with them?"

Futon. " Yes, I have been here , " Spoints to the NW. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their site.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among
the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the
island, on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought. for:
and sotne time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that
aide, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child ~ he could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing
to mo to tell them over,

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows; that
after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and wind, always one
wnv in the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to he no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this
land which I erccircd to the W. and NW. was the great island
Trinidad, on t e north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of pcople, but could get no other
name than Caribs: from whence I easily understood, that these were
Curibbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and on-
wards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great we beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, w ich must be
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and
that they had killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all
the nations, from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this island and
get among these white men; he told me: "Yes, yes, you may go in
two Canoe." I could not. understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what he meant by two cnnoc; till, at last, with great
diillculty, I found he meant it. must. be iii-n large boat, as big as two
canoes. This part of Friday's discourse begun to relish with me
very well: and from this time 1 entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might liud an opportunity to make my escaie from
this place, and that this poor sarnge might. be a means to he p me.

During the long, time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to spcsz to me, and understand me, I was not wantin to
lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind ; particular y I
asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked him who was his
father; but I took it up by another handle, and asked him who
made the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods?
He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all; he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, be said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or
the stars. I asked him then, if this old person had made all things
why did not all thinws worship him? He looked very grave, en

with a crfect look of innooence, said: " All things say to him."
I asked him "if the eople who die in his country went own any

where?" He said, " es: they all went to Benamnekee;" t en I
ashgd gm :' whether these they ate up went thither too?" He
sat , " es.'

From these thin s I began to instruct him in the knowledfie of
the true God: I to d him that the great Maker of all things 'ved .
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that he governed the world

K

 

by the same power and providence by which he made it; and that
he was omnipotent, and could do ever thing for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and t nus, by degrees, I opened his
8 es. He listened with great attention, and received with leasure
t e notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, an of' the
manner of making our prayers to God, and his being able to hear us,
even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Ben-
emuckec, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said: "No ;" they never went that were young men; none went
thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowookakee: that is,
as I made him explain to me, their religious, or elerg ; and that
they went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), an then came
back, and told them what Benamuckee said.

I
I endeavoured to clear 11' this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of treir old men gorng up to the mountains
to say 0 to their god Benamuckce was a cheat: and that their
bringrng word from thence what he saidwns much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be
an evil spirit; and then I entered into along discourse about the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
str'utagems he made use of to deludc mankind to their ruin; how he
had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I look for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that not upon the same principle
will find, that in laying things open to him, I rcallv informed and
instructed myself in runny things that cit her 1 did not Know, or and
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally to my
mind upon searching into them, for the infornmtion of this poor
savage: and 1 had more ufi'eetion in my inquiry utter things upon
this occasion than ever i felt before: so that, wlletlrcl' this poor wild
wreteh was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be thank-
ful that ever he came to me; my rief sat lighter upon me; :3
habitation grew comfortable tome icyond measure; and when
reflected, that in this solitary life vlrich I had been confined to, I
had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek
to the hand that had lu'oucht me here, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for ought I
knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
h-dge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all those things, a secret joy ran through every part of m soul, and
I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this pace, which
] lr:rd south-n thought the ruest dreadful of all alllietions that could
possibly have lie-fallen me.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO FRIDAY'S
COUNTRY--THEIR. SCHEME PREVENT" BY THE ARRIVAL OF A
PARTY OF SAVAGES.

Anna Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all 1 said to him, and speak pretty fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I ac nainted him with my own
history, or at least so much of it. as re atcd to my coming to this
place; how ] had lived here, and how loo"; 1 let him into the mys-
tery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully
delighted with; and 1 made him a belt with a froSS hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the reg, Instead of
a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in pieces belore, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we last when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with m whole strength then; but was now
fallen almost all to pieces. {Ipon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was
he studied upon? At last, he says : " Me see such boat like come
to place at in nation." I did not understand him a good while;
but, at last, w ien I had examined farther into it, I understood by
him, that a bout such as that had been, came on shore nimn the

x132 ADVENTURES 01? 1101111111021 11111751111.

counh'y where 111'. Ii1';cd 111111. is, 115 111'. cxphiim'd 113w" driven
thilhcr bv 511'1'55 01 111-1111111.r I proscnliy i111:1-.:1111'1I 111111 5111116
I". 111111110111 ship must 11:111: 111-1'11 c.1151 away 11111111 1111" 1r 111ml, 111111 the
1111111 111115111. 1:1'1 I111isr , 111111 111'i\1: :1sh111c; 11111. was so (IulI, 111111. I 111' wt
11111.1' 111111114111. 111' mm 1111-1111111: 11111r ('scupc from 11 \1'1'1'1'1; IhiIIu'r,
111111-11 I1-ss \1'111'111.1' 1111111 might cu1nc;sol only inquired aI'Icr a
dcscrxpl 11111 111 1111' 1111211..

I'ri1111v 111-51111111-11 1111- 1111 it In 1111'. chI 11101114111111". bought me
111-111-1' I11 1111111'rsl111111 him 11111-11 I11:' :111111'11 with 51111111 w: 11'111111. " \\ L.'
.1111' 1.111: \\IIII(' 11111115 from 1Ir11\1'.'11 'Ihcn I [1r1-51' 11II\ 11511111 him, if
1111'1'1: 11'1'r1-'1nv 1111111: 11111115, 115 he 1'11111'11 1111' 'm, in 1111'- 1111111.. '9 " Yrs.
h1- s1;111| '1111-111111111111111'1111111: 11111115. ' I 115111'11 him 1111\\' 111111111?
111' 111111 11111111 his [1111:1'1'5 s1"~'.1111|11'11 I 11511011 him 1111-11 \1 11.11 Iu'czunc
11I 1.111111, 111.- 111111 1111:, " 'I'I11v 1111' 1111-3' 1111-1-11 :11 1111' 1111111111

'Ihis 11111 111-11 Ihonghxs 111111 1111' 111211I; for I 1111-5111113! imagined
"1.11. 1111-51: 11 L'IiI. 111' 1111: 111111 1115111111311." 1.1) 1111: ship 111111 was 02.151.
111'11v in 1111'. 51:1" 111' 1111' 151111111, 115 I 111111: c11II1'1111.;1'1111I\1'1111,111'I.1-1'
1111-. ship 11.15 siruI'I; 1111 1111- rock 111111 1111-v sziw 111-'1 1111"\i11'1I1Ii' I115I,
11.111 szm'd 1111-111311va 111 Ih1'ir 1111111. 1.1111 11'1- r1'. 11111111111 11111111 111111. 11'ii1I
511111'1'. 1111111111.: 1111' 5:11'11Lv1-s, I 111111 Ihis, I inquired 111 him 1111111' 1"1iIi-
1':11I\' 1111111 1111's 1100111111: 111 1111- 111; 111'. 11:5111'1'11 IIH.' Ih1-y Ii1'1'.d 511111111311"
Ih.1i. 1111'1' I1:'11I 1101111 1111'r1: 111111111 111111'11'111'5; 111111 111115 111'.1_1.,'1'sI1:I 1111.111
11111111', 111111 111111: 1111-111 1111-1111113 11) Ii1'1' 1111 I 11511111 111111 111111' 111-111111:
111 11.188 1111:3' 11111 1111I 11111 1111-111, 111111 11:11 111c111,II1-s:1i11,"1\11, 1111:v
11111111: 111'111.her wi1111111'1n;".'1.11:11 Is as I 1111111'rsLu111I him. 1111'u11'; 111111
1111-11 111.- 111111011, " '111111' 1101-111 11111115 11111 "11811 make 1111: \uir 1114111:
111111 Ls I11 say, they 111-1111' 0111 :my 1111-11 11111 such 1111 01mm 1111114111
wiIh 11111111, 111111 1111'Lz1111'11 111 111111.10.

1'111111 1I11: \1'111111', I 11115 111' 11 inIm' so Ii.\'1'd 11111nmvd1'<i1,r11111'
gum: 111'cr \1'1111 him 1111111). 0111111111111 [11111.1 111111 11111 1111' wqu1I1.':o
1111.1 11111111111. b11111 as big as 11131. 111111 111: should 1.:0 home 111 11.111:
1111311'1'11'11 1101 0111: 11'0'111,11111 looked 1'1'11' L'r:11'1: 111111 51111.1 115111-11
him 111111111115 11111 111111.111 \1'iIh him? 110 11515011 1111: 111:.1i11, " \I' 111' mu
11112111 1111111 111111 l'1'i1111v ? \I 11111 1111: 11111111. ' ' I 115111211 him 1111.11 111:
1111-11111. " I 111111 111111 I 11.15 11111 angry with him 111 1111." .\'1) 11111.,'1'1' '1'"
3111': 111', r11p1'1111111r1hc 1111r1'Is aevcrai 111111'5, " \I 111' 51-1111 l'r111111 home
1111':1_1'1111111 1111111111. 'J '-- "' \\ hv, " 5111's I "1'1'i1111v,1ii11 11111. \1111 say V1111
11'ixh1 11 \'1111 \1'1:1'1' 1111- e. 5"-- " I'L's, \'1-5,' 5111's he, " \1i>11 11L'I1111111h1-111;
1111 111~I1 Friday lhcn', 110111115111r Ih1-rc " Inmmrd 11111111111111101'1111111
111 going: 1111:1'1: \1111111111 1111'. "I g0111111',c I'riduy."s:1_151;"\1'1111| 5111111 I
1111 Ihcrc. ?" 11c. 1'1'1111'111'11 very quick 11111111 1111: 1.11 Ihis:"I1)u 111101-1111.
111' 111 much good, " says 111' " 1'111111'11c11 \1'iI1I 111111151111 1101111 s11bcr,111111e
mans: 1111111111 Ihem 11111111 1111 11 11561111, and Iiv1'. new 1111'." --".'\l1is!
l1ri11.11'," 5111's I, " 1111111 1111'1111 1101 1111.11. 111011 saycst; 1 am but. an
ignorant 1111111 1nys1'II'."-- " 11's. 1'11 s.' s'ays he," you Ienchce me good,
you 11"1c11cc 11111111 2111111." --"N11 110,1'1'i11111',"s11\'s1,"an shall go
without me, 11:.111c me here to Iiv'e by' myscii,1is I di1I before." 113doves-runes or noumson ransom. 138

looked confused again at. that word; and runningr to one of the hatehets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. " What
must I do with this ?"savs l to him. "You take kill Friday," sayshc.
" What must. I kill you tor?" said I avain. lle returns ver ' nick,
" W hat you send Friday away for? 'l'zdte kill Friday, no son hriday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that 1 saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word. l so ilainly discovered the utmost all'eetion in him
to me, and a lirm resolution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that 1 would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all
the foundation ol' his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent attrition to the u-ople, and his hopes of my doing them good ;
a thing, which as l llllt no notion of myself. so I had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire, ol'undertaking it. But. still 1 found
it. strong inclination to my attempting an escape. as above. founded
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were
seventeen hearded men there: and, therefore, without any more
delay, i went to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to
fell, and make a large periaaua. or canoe, to undertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not
of periagnas, or canoes, but. even of good large vessels; but the
main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we
might. launch it when it was made. to avoid the mistake l committed
at first. At last, Friday iitehed upon a tree; for 1 found he knew
mneh better than 1 what 'ind of wood was littest for it ; nor can i
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except
that it was very like the tree we (-all fustic, or between that and tho
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the Same colour and smell.
Friday was for hurtling the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but. 1 showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after 1 had showed him how to use, he did very handily : and
in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome ; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
heralong, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water;
but when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
case

1 was near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for
I finished them very com ilete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, it we Slit uld turn to windward ; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
l was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
ewn necessity of such a thin", I applied myself with so much pains
to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though. considering the

12
many dull contrirzmees Thad for it that failed, I think it. cost mo
almost as much labour as making the boat.

When the settled season began to come. in, as the thought of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was ireparing daily for the
voyage, and the first thing l did was to lay )y :1 large quantity of
provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a. week
or a t'ortuight's time, to Open the dot-k, and lanneh out. our boat. I
"'st busy one, morning upon something of this kind, when I. called to
Friday, and hid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he Could find a
turtle, or lol'lulst", a thing we generally got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs :1.>> well :15 the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running hut-k. mtd flew mer my outer wall, or lbnce,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet. on; and

 

before. l had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, " Oh master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"--" What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "O yonder. there, "says he, " one, two, three canoe: one,
two, three!" By this way of 5 making, I concluded there were six;
but, on inquiry, I found it. was nt three. "Well Friday, " says I,
" do not; be frightened !" So I heartened him up as well as I could:
however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared : for nothino'
ran in his head hut that they were come to look for him, and would
cut. him in )fieces, and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so that
I scarce. knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could. and told him I was in as tnueh danger as he, and that they
would cut me. as well as him. "lint." says 1, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them." "Can you fight, .l"ridny?"--"l\le shoot,"
says he; " but there come many great. unntber."--"No matter for
that," said I, again, " our guns will fright them that we do not.
kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand b me; and do just as I hid him. He
said, "Me die, when you bid ie, master." So [went and fetched a
good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so ood a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When be ad drank it, I
made him take the two fowlin -pieces, which we alwa 3 carried, and
loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small isto -bullets ; then
I took four muskcts, and loaded them with two 5 ugs, and five small
bullets caeh ; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side; and gave
Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
prrsllicctive glass, and went. up to the sale of the lnll, to see what
I.

coul discover; and 1 found quickly by my glass, that there were

 

one-and'twonty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet anon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast Indeed! but not-lung
more than, as 1 had observed, was usual with them. I observe
also, that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his esca e, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low,
and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
with the abhorrenec of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to
Friday, and told him that I was resolved to 0 down to them and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stan by me. He had now

I: over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram
lulled given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when 1 bid die. .

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one istol to stick in
his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and took one pistol,
and the other three this myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small ottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullets; and, as to orders, 1 charged
him to kee close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do an -
thin . till hid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak a wor .
In tliis posture, "etched a compass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that. 1 might
come within shot of them beforcl should be discovered, which I had
seen, by in glass, it was easy to do.

lenterc the wood; and, with all possible wariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, 1 marched till I came to the skirt.
of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one
corner of the wood, lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at the cor-
nor of the wood, ] bade him go to the free, and bring me word if he
could see there lainly what they were doing. He did so; and came
iimnediately heel: to me, and told me they might be lainly viewed
there; that, they were all about their fire, eating the esh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, :1 little
from them, which, he said they would kill next, and which fired all
the very soul within me. He told me it. was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was tilled with horror at the rer naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plain y, by my
Fluss, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
lands and his feet tied with llags or things like rushes, and that he
was an European and had clot hes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place where I was,whieh by going a lit tlc
way about.,1 saw 1 might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half n. shot of them: so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed emerged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full View of them, at the distance of about

eighty yards
ROBINSON RELEASES A SPANIAR'D-PRIDAY DISCOVERS HIS PATH!"
--ACCOMMODAT10N PROVIDED FOR THESE NEW GUESTS--WHO
ARE AFTEBWAILDS SENT TO INK-ATE THE OTHER SPANLARDS--
ARRIVAL 01' AN ENGLISH VESSEL.

I mm now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the oer Christian, and bring him
perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stoo ing down to
nntie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday--" Now, 'ridny," said
I, " do as I bid thee." Fridu said he would. "Then, Friday," said I,
" do exactly as you see me o; fail in nothin ." So I set. down one
of the muskets and the fouling-piece upon t 0 ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at
the savages, bidding him to do the like; then askinw him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." " Then fire at them," said f; and the some
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that
he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my
side, I killed one, and wounded two. The were, you may he sure,
in dreadful consternation; and all of t em who were not hurt
jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediate] know which way
to run, or which we to look, for they knew not rom whence their
destruction came. riday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I
had hid him, he mi ht. observe what I did; so. as soon as the first
shot wns made, I t rew down the piece, and took up the fowling-
piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock and present; he did
the same again. " Are ou ready, Friday F" said I. " Yes," says he.
" Let fly, then," says , " in the name of God!" And with that I

fired ngnn among the amazed wretchcs, and so did Friday; and as our
12-
ions were now loaden with what I called swan~shot, or small pistol

ullcts, we found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody,
and most of thrrm miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly
utter. though not quite dead.

"Now, lr'i'iday,"said l, laying 'down the discharged pieces, and takin
up the musket which was yet loadcn, " follow me ;" which he did wil l
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, um
showed myself, and Friday close at, my foot. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and running as fast as I could, which by the 'way was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who Was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore,

 

between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers,
\\ ho were just going,r to work with him, had loft him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
'umped into a. canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.

turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and tire at them; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to he
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thou ht- hc had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall of a heap into the oat, though I saw two of
them up again uiokly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat am
it he had been dead

While my man Friday fired at them, I ulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that bound the poor victim; oosing his hands and feet,
] lifted him up and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was.
He answered m Lat in, Christianus; but. was so weak and faint that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making si us that he should drink, which he did;
and 1 gave him a piece of iread which he ate. Then I asked hin
what countryman he was : "Espagniole ;" and being a little recovered,
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
"as in my debt for his deliverance. " t'i or," said 1, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, "we will 1: afterwards, but we must
fight. now; if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully, and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like afury, and had out two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for were amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they had
received, so the other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being Willin to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my. pisto and
sword; so I called to h'rida , and bade him run u to the tree from
whence we first tired and fete the arms which lay t me that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While l was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement. between the Spaniard
and one of thesavages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same-like wea on that was to have killed him be.
fore, it I had not prevented it. he Spuniard,wlio was as bold and
brave as could be im 'ned, though week, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cutafiiim two great wounds on his head; but the
sav. "c being a stout, lust fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him own, beingr faint, an was wringing my sword out of his hand ;
when the Spaniard, though under-most, wisely quittcd the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to he p
him, could come near him.

Friday being now left to his libert , pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in his hand but. iis hatchet; and with that he
dis iatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spanie
coming to me for a gun I gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with
which he pursued two of t e savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both t from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and kill. one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might, off to
those who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one
Wounded, that we. know not whether he died or no, were all that
eseaped our hands ofone-and-lwenty. The account of the whole is
as follows: three killed at our first shot tram the. tree; hm
killed at the next shot. ; two killed by Friday in the heat ; tu'o killed
by Frida of those at first wounded; one. killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed by tla' Spaniard; four killed,heing found dropped
here and there of their "'1 unds, or killed by l'i-ida' in his chase
of them; {our escaped in the boat, whereof one \vuun ed if not dead.
--'l'\\-euty-onc in all.

Those who were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-shot,
and though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find
that he. hit any of them. Friday would l'ain have had me take, one
of their eanocs, and nn'snc them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest, carrying: the. news home to their people,
they should come back perhaps nith two or three hundred of the

 

canoes, and devour us by mere multitude ; so I consented to pursue
them h); sea, and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and
bade Friday follow me; hut when Iwas in the canoe Iwas surprised
to find another oor creature lie there. hound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, or the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak, but groaned most )itcously, believing, it seems, still,
that he was only unbound to he killed. When Friday came to him,
1 hadc him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and,
pulling out. my bottle. made him give the poor \rretcli a drum;
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have. moved any one to tears to have seen how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,ericd, laughed, hallooed,
'umped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
mat his own face and head; and then sang and 'umped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while efore I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little. to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to ex ress how it moved me to see what
cestney and filial affection h worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and on his being delivered from death; nor indeed
can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many times 2 when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and uncles which were numbed
and stitl' with the binding, and chufed and rubbed them with his
hands: and l, werceiviug what the matter was, gave him some rum
out (pf my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of

OU .

g This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost. out of sight. ; and it was happy for us
that. we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could have got quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-West, which was
against them, that 1 could not suppose that their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.

But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him 011' for some time: but after
I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he
came jumpinSS and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme;
then l asked iim if he- had given his father any bread. He shook
his head, and said, " None; unly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of allittlc pouch I carried on purpose; I
also gave him a dram for himself, but. he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given his father these raisins, but Isaw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a
rate; for he was the swiftest follow on his feet that I ever saw: I
say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in
an instant; and though I called, and halloocd out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast. as he went; and as he came
nearer I found his pace slacker, beeause he had something in bi-
band. When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an earthen jug. or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and
that he had two more cakes or loaves of breed; the bread he gave
me. but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, 1 took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just
hunting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said "Yes ; " and l hado him ire it. to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his other; and I sent
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed very weak, and was reposmg himself upon a green time
under the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very sti , and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been fied with.
When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went. to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulnesa that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
lus ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum,
as he had done his father's.

1 observed the poor ufl'eetionate creature, eve two minutes, or
perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his read about to see
if his father was in the same place and posture us he left him
sitting: and at last he found that he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
11055 to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet. to touch the
ground as he went; hut when he came he only found he had lain
himself down to case his limbs, so Friday came hack to me pro~
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could. and lead him to the boat, and then he should carr him
to our dwelling, where I would take care of him; but: Fri ay, a
lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the heat, and set. him down softlv upon the side
or gunnel of the. canoe, with his feet in the inside of it : and then,
lifting him quite in, he set. himself close to his father; and pre-
sently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the store faster than 1 could walk, though the wind blew

rctty hard too: so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
caring them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he assed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
101 me, " Go fetch more boat: " so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wnfted me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, wlnch
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not whut to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in m thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the b while he came to me, I
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Frida and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us. But w on we
got them to the outside of our well, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and
I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again- and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a ver lien omo
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bong s of trees,
being in-the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made

 

them two bedsof such thin s as I had, viz. of good rice straw,
wnth blankets laid upon it, to 'e on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
. My island was now peopled, and I thou ht myself rich in sub.
g-cts; and it was a merry reflection, which? frequently made, how
Are a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my ownmere
property, so that 1 had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were perfectly sub'ected: I was absolutely lord and
lawgiver; they all owed their 'ves to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
dill'erent religions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was
a Pagan and a cannibal, and the S iauiard was a. Pupist : however,
i allowed liberty of conscience t roughout my dominions.---But
this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two week rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular tlock, to be killed; when I cut otf the binder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Fridn to work to
boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, assure you, '
of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice also into the
broth; and as I cooked it without. doors, for 1 made no fire within
my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
table for them, I sat. down, and ate my dinner also with them, and. as
well as I could, cheered them and encountered them. Friday was my
interpreter, especiall to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard
too: for the Spaniar spoke the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other lire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left u )(m the place of battle;
and, the next day, l Ordered him to go and Ibury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
offensive. Ialso ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbaious feast, and which 1 could not think of doing myself; nay,
] could not bear to see them, it' I went that way; all which he
Hunctually performed, and cfi'aeed the very appearance of the savages

cing there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and lirst, 1 set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we
might expect a return of them, with a power too great for us to
I'CSISL His first opinion was that the sav was in the boat. could
never live out the storm that blew that nilrr'ltt they went. off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to he drowned,
if they were cast away : but, as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their beinu'
attacked, the noise, and the tire, that he believed they would tell
the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man; and that the two which appeared, viz. Friday and I,
were two beaven'v spirits, or fuz-ies, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: because he
heard them all cry out so, in their innguage, one to another; for it:
was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak t iunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting u the hand, as
was done now: and this old savage. was in the rig t; for, as I
understood since, by other bands, the savages never attemp'ed to go
over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified by the accounts
given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted Maud would be
destroyed by fire from the gods This, however, I knew not; and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my uard, with all my army: for, as there were
now four of us, I worifld have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes a pouring, the fear of
their coming were 011', and I began to take my ormer thoughts of a
voyage to the main into consi eration; being likewise assured by
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts were a
little suspended when I had. a. serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
nicu and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made theii
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Pluto, to the Havannah,
being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiell hides
and silver, and to bring back what lturopean goods the con (1 meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on
the cannibal coast, where they ex ected to have been devoured
every moment. He told me they ind some arms with them, but
the were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder nor
be] , the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provide themselves
some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no desiim of making their escape, He said the
had many consultations about it; but that having neither vesse ,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receives. proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told him, with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage
of me, if I put my life in their hands, for that gratitude was no in-
herent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they did
bv the advanta es they expected.

He answered with a great deal of eandonr and ingennousness,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible 0:
it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of us any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; an that, if I
pleased, he, would go to them with the old man, and discourse With

them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer; that
13 l-146 am'ttsrunns or nuttmson causes.

he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that

 

 

they should be absolutely under my leading, us their commaude ll|d
captain : and that. the',' should sw tar, upon the holy sacrament. and

gospel, to be. true to tile, and go to such Christian country as that I
should agree to, and no other, and to he. direeled wholly and nhso-
lutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in sueh country as
I intended ; and that he. would bring a eontraet. for them, under
their hands, for that purpose. '

Upon these. assuranees, l resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possihle, and to send the. old satagc and this Spaniard over totht'tu
to "fill. But when we had gt ll things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himst-ll' started an oh) . inn, which had so mueh prudent-e
in it, on one hand, and somueh sincerity, on the other hand, that I
could not. hot he very Well sat islied in it; and, hy hisath iee, put off
the deliverance of his eonu'allt-s for at. least half a year. The case
was thus: He. had been with us now ahout a month. during which
time 1 had let. him see in \\ hat manner] had u'oridrd, with the
assistance of Providence, t'or |u_\_' sup )Ol'l; ant he saw evidently
what stock ol'eorn and rice 1 had lau up; whieh, though it. was
mo': than sutlieient for myself, yet it was not. stillicient, without
ts" hushnndrv, for my family, now it. wa. int-r >ased to four; but
much less would it he utlieient it~ his countrymen, who were, as he
said, sixteen, still alive, should eomc over; and 1 'ast of all would it
he. sutlieient to virtual our vessel, if we should build one, for a toy-
age to any of the ('hristian colonies of America; so he told me he
thought. it. would he more advisable. to let him undthc other two dig
and cultivate some more laml, as much as 1 could spare seed to sow,
and that we should wait. another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his eountrymen, when they should come; for
want. might. be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delitered, otherwise. than out of one dillieulty into an-
other. " You know," says he, " the ehildren ot' Israel, though they
rejniet-d nt. tirst for being delivered ottt. ol' l'Igypt, yet. rebelled even
against. God himself, that deliu'red them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness."

llis -aution was so seasonahle. and his advice so good, that I
could not hot. he. wry "ell pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with histidelity : so wel'ell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as
mueh land eured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
hushels ot' hark-v on, and sixteenjars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves
barley suflicient for our own food, for the six months that we had
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set
our seed aside. for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is sixnionthu
in the ground in that country.ADVEXTUIU'ZS 0F ROBINSON Cltllsllfi. 1'7

Al. the same lime. l contrived to increase my lllltlt' lloek of lame
goals as llilu'll as I could: and, for this purpose, l iiiaih- Friday and
the Spaniard go out one day. and iiiysell' with Friday the next. day
(for we took our turns), and by lliis means we got. about twenty
young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot tho
dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our lluek. But, above
all, the. season for curing the grapes coining"r on, I t'.'il|.\'('(i such a mi-
digious quantity to he hung up iii the sun. that, l believe, hat we
been at Alieaiit. where the raisins of the suit ar: cured, we could
have lillrd sixty or ('ighly barrels: and "W - with our bread, war. ii
great part of our food, and was very good living, loo, I, assure you,
for it is run-ediiigly nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it. was not the

  

 

most plentiful increase i had seen in the ixlaiid, but, however, it was
enough to answer our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley
we brought in and threshcd out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in iroportioii of the rice; which was store
enough for our food to in: next. harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore wilh ine ; or if we lizid been ready for a
"wage, it would very picniirfllly have \'ictiialled our ship to have
carried us to any part. of the world, that is to say, any part ol' Aine-
riea. When we had thus housed and secured our Ilingnlilli' of corn,
we fell to work to make more wieke ware, viz. great baskets, in
which we kepl it; :nid the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous
at. this purl. and often blamed me that. i did not. make somethings
for defence ol' ibis kind of Work ; but. 1 saw no need ol' it.

And now, having ii. i'ull supply of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, 1 gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the lllilll'i, to see

1. .MS AIH'I'INTL'IUCS or iioiimsoN cnusoe.

Mimi he eoulil do willi those. he had left behind li-iiii lliero. I gave
him a siriet. charge. not. in brine' iiuy man with him who would not
lirsl swear, in the present-e of himself and lhe. old savage, that. he
would no way injure .zlit. \i'illi, or :illnek lhe iei'son he should find
in the island, who w m kind :is to send lor t ieiii in order to their
deliverance; but that. they would slziiid by him, and lil'fl'llli him
iiguiiisl :ill sin-h :itteiupls, and wherever they wenl, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and llisil this should be put
in writing, and signed willi lheir lizinds. How they were. to have
done. this. when I knew lliey liziil neillier pen nor ink, was :i ques-
tion which we. never llhki'll. Under ihese iiislriielioiis,llu- Spaniard
nnd the old savage, the father of Friday, \veiil. away in one of the
canoes wliieli they miglil he said lo come in, or other were bruuglin

  
 

 

in, when they 'mlN' :is prisoners lo lie. devoured by the savages: I
gave eneli of them :i iiiuskel., willi a. fircloek on it, and uboiil. eight
charges of powder iind hiill, charging l.licni to he very good husbands
of both. and not. lo use eilher of them but. upon urgent. oceusmiis. .

This was ll cheerful work, being llie first. measures used by mo, in
view of my delii'eruiiee, for now twenty-seven years and some dogs.
I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sullieieut. lur
themselves for niziiiv days, and Mllllclmll for all he Spaniards for
iilioiil eiglil. daiys' lime; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw
them go; agreeing willi them about 11 signal they should hung out
on their return, bv which I should know them again, when they
came liziclz, :it :1 distance, before they come on shore. They went
uwziv with :i fiiir giile, ou the day lhul. lhe moon was at. full, by my
neeiiuiit- iii the month of October; but. us for :in exncl. reckoning of
days, all" 1 hzid onee lost. il. I could never recover it again; nor
hiid i, kept even the number of years so iiiiieliizilly :is to he sure I
was. right; though, :Ls' it proved, when iil'lerwzirds examined my
account, I found 1 liiid kept a true reckoning of years.mux'wiuzs or nonmsmr cnusou. 14"

It was no less than eight. days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervmied, of which the like has not.
perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master. they are come, they are come! " I
jumped up, and, regardless of danger, 1 went, out. as soon as I could
ref my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
by this time grown to a very thick wood; I say, regardless of dun-

 

ger, I went. without. or arms, which it. was not my custom to do;
but I was surprised, \i' ran turuin ' my eyes to the sea, 1 presently
saw a bent about. a league and n roll distance, standing in for the
shore, with a slu)nlder-of-uinmm sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing fair to bring them in: also I observed presently, that. they
did not. come from that. side which the shore lay on, but. from the
southernmost. end of the island. Upon this, I called Frida in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not. the people we looke for, and

that. we might. not. know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
is!1.0 ADVENTITR'PS 0F unmxsnx rmzsm-Z.

In llu'. mxl place, I "will. in to l'clnh my P"TSP('.('l-i\'c glass. to see
nl~al 1 (wild mnku nl' lhvm; and linvin: laki'n the laddvr (mi, 1
('limln-d up In lln- Iup nl' llu'. hill, as l usvd In du whvn l was appre-
hi-nsivvul' anything, and lo lakv my \'ll'\\' llu' plaim-r willmul ln-ing
di.~cnwrcd. I had warm- s'ol. my I'nul. upnn Ilu'. hill. nln-u my ('_\'(2
nlaiuly disi-uwri'd a xhip lying ul anchor, :ll almul, hm haunts and a
iiall (llhlilm'u from nw, 5.5.". lnil nul. alum: a h'agu- and a hall
fmm lln- shunt. 3y my ()lmvrvaliun. i!>> apprari-d plainly In he an
l'lnqlisli ship, and lln'. lmal- appvarrd l0 ln' an l'lligluh lung-Inuit.

l <<annul. (-xprx-ss llu' Hilll-llhlnll I was in; (lmngh lln' joy of
svving a ship, nud unu ihal. I had rvasun lu lnvliuvu was manned
by my own ('unnii'yuu-n, and, i-nuxi-ipirnlly. frirnds, was such as l
('nnnul (lvsm'ilw; lnil \'l'.l I had mnu' ci-rm. dunlns hang: almuli nu: >>--
li'annnl lull l'mm n-lwnw lln-y (-amv. bidding mu km-p upon my
guard. ln llu- lirsl plum il m'i-urn-d lu llH' in mnsidv'r whnl. busi-
nt-ss an l'lnglixh ship muhl haw in that parl ul' llu' world, SSlll('l' il.
"as nnl llu- \\'.'\' to Hi l'rnm any pail, of (he wnrld whvm lln' 'l'lnglisli
had any ll':illl('; and l km'w Iln-l'c hail ln-vn no slurnm lo drin- lhmn
in lln'n', (la in dim-v55; and that. if l.ln~y \u'ru rvnlly .l'lnglish. ill was
nunsl pruliahh- lhal Iln-y \u'l'c lu'ri- upon nu guild di'sign; and that I
had lM'lll'l' mndinm' . s l was, than full iuli) llu- hands of lhiitvi-s and
mnrdvri'rs.

1 had nul. lu'pl. n "rlf .ung in "Us pnslurv, hill. 1 saw lhu lmal.
draw nrar Ihv shin-r, :u if lvlu-y lunkt'd fur a i'rrck l0 llu'nsl in .11.,
I'm' lhu (:mn'i-nimn'u of landing; lmwvvcr, as llu'y did no! ('nnn:
quilc far <<mingli. Ila-y did nul. SN? llu: liLlh' inh'l whrru l fin'nwrly
landed my ral'ls, lml run l-ll('.ll' hunt, nu shore upon the lu-ai'li, al.
nhnul hall' a milr lrmn llli', which was vvry happy lnr me; for nlhvr.
wisu lln-y n'unld haw l1ll|ll('(l just al. my door, in; I may say, and
wnuld sum) ham hralm nu', <<ml. of my :asllo, and purlmps liavi- plun-
(ll'l'I'll nu: uf all 1 had. \l'hvn ley warn on shore, l was fully Mills>>
"('ll llu-y \i'm'u l'inglislnnon, all. land. Innsl. (if Ila-m; mm or Um I
thought wvrc l)lll.l'll, lml it did not pruu- su, lhcrc \w-rv in all
t-lvwn nwu. \vlwrvul'lhri-u I found \\'l'.l'l' unarmed, nnd,as l lhunghl,
hound; and when lhc first. four or lin- nl' llmn were jumped un
Show, iln'y look llms lhri'i' uul 0|. lln: limit, ' < prismu-rs; um: of
tlu' 1hrm' l muld pi'i'r-vii'r using the must. unminnalv gl'slnrrs of
('llll'r:il_\', :dlliuiinn. and di'sp. ' . m-vu in a kind of uxiravmymcu: llm
othvr Inn. 1 (muld pvrvvu'v, lil'li'd up Hair hands snnu-linn-s. and
uppi-arvd ('1)ll('('.l'll('ll, indi-ml, lllll- nnl. l0 Slfl'll a drgruv as llu- first.
1 was pvrl'vrlly ('unl'mindml al. thc si'rhl. and kin-w nut \i'hal. Ila:
meaning of il should he. Friday tallvd nut l0 lm', in English, as
well as he (muld. " U mash-r! you .' 'u l'Inglish mans cat prismic' as
"'0" as savage mans." - " Why, l"rid v " says I, " dn ynutliink tlii'y
an: guiug ln cal lln-m lln-n '3 "--" Yi- , ' says Friday, " lht'y wdl cal.
lhmu." " N0. nn." 5: 's l. " Friday; 1 am al in! they will nnirdi-r
them, indeed, lnil you may be sure Lluty will not cut them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expectingm'ery
moment when Ihe three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the \'iiluins lift in ibis arm with a great entlnss, us the semuen
call it, or award, to strilre one of the poor men ; and I expected to
see him full every moment; at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the sm'nge that was gone with him, or that. I had any
way to have eome umliseoverml within shot of them, thut I might
hnxe rescued the three men, for I saw no lire-onus they had mnon
them : but it fell out. to my mindnnot her u ny. After] had ohservcil
the (numerous u e of the three men by the insolent seamen. I
observed the fellmm run stuttering: about the island, as if they
wanted to see the vumnry. I olmerved that the three other men

 

had liberty to go also where. they pleased; but. they sat. down all
three upon the ground, very penswe, and looked likemen in despair.
'I'his put. me in mind of the first time when 1 came on shore, unp
begun to look nbo J me: how I gave. myself over for lost; how
wildly I looked around me; what dreadful up )rehcnsions I had; and
how I lodged in the tree ull ni ht, for fear oflieiugdcvoured by wild
bemts. As I knew nothing tint night.- of the supply I was to re-
ceive by the providentinl driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms nnd l-l(l('-, by which I have been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three )oor desolnte men knew nothing how certmn
of deliverance nud supply they were. 80 little do we see before us
in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the grout Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst eirmnustmiccs, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliveruuec than they im: fine; nuy, are even brought to their
deliverance by the means by which they seem to he brought to their
destruction.
ROIHNSON DXSCOVERS lllhtSl-ilk' T0 THE 'thlell ('-\l'T\lN--ASSISTS
III." 1N REDUHNG llIh MUTlNOLTS CIKEW-- \VHU SUMMIT TO "1.".

 

IT was just. ut "w {up (If high water whvn Ihn'sr' people. came (m
shoro; and partly while tlu-y rmnhlud ahnut. to 500 what. kind of a
place they wcn.' in, 1hr) hull (-zm-lrs. y stay-(l till thu lltk' \ms spout,
and the watt-r "us t-hhul (mnsillunhly :m'uy, h-aving tlwir hunt.
ngrouml 'l'lwy luul lrt't lwu mm in the hunt, who, as l l'mnul ut'tvr-
wards, having drunk :1 little tun much hrzuuly, t'vll :tsh'cp; hth-wr,
one of thrm wnl'inqn litth' Stlmlt'l' than the other, and thulins: the
hunt. too fast ugrunzul for him to stir it, hulhmvtl nut for the rust,
who wvru struggling ulmut; upon which Iht'y all soul) came to the
hunt : but it was punt nll thvir >1 rt'ngth tn lnum'h lu'r, the hunt lining
wry lw:n'y,:1ml thc shnrv on that siulu lwinq :\ sutt ("my Smul,al|uust
lulu: u quirhxmul. In this ('nmliliun. lilu' true M'zumm, who are
In'rhupfi thu lt'flSl (Ill all mankind gin-n tn forvthnllgllt, thm' gave it
(war, and :m'u)' tln-_\' slmlh'tl ztlmnl. the country again; nntl l hvnrtl
one of them say :tluml lu nuullu'r. mulling thvm ()tl' frmn tho. hunt,
" Why, lot. hm' :xlmw, .lm-h. mnt't yuu? slu-'ll tlnut nvxt title: " hy
which 1 was fully unntirnu-d in "w muln imuiry of what country-
mrn thvy wvrc. All this whilu [ ht-lut. mysvllf wry ('lnsu, not. once
(lurtng tn stir out of my cmthe, any furl-her than to my plum: of
ohsvrmtinn, m-zu- the to}: of tlu: hill; and very ghul I was in think
how well it was familial. l lull-w it. was no lvss than tvn hnurs
hut'urc lhc hunt. cuuhl tlout :Ltguln, and by that linur it would be dark,
and I might be at. more liberty to see their motions. and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I titted myself
up for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made. an excellent marksman with his gun,
to load himself with arms. I took myself two l'owliug-pieees, and
I gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I
had my formidable goats' skin coat. on, with the great ea I have
mentioned. a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a
gun upon eaeh shoulder.

It. was my desivu, as I said above, not to have made. an at tempt
till it wa. dark: hut about two o'clock, being the heat. olythe day,
I found that, in short. they were all gone straggling into the Woods,
and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
sat. down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of an of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, an learn some-
thing of their eondition; immediately I marched in the figure as
nhore, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidahle
for his arms as l, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did. I eame as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, hetero any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
" What. are ye, gentlemen ? " They started at the noise; but were
ten titties more, confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but. 1 thought I
tereeired them just. going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in
fi'luglish: "Gentlemen," aid 1, " do not he surprised at. me; per-
llups you may have a frieml near, when you did not. expect. it."
" He must he sent direetlv from Heaven then," said one of them
very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat. at. the same time to me;
" for our condition is past the help of mau."---"All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I : " But can you put a stranger in the way how
to help you? for you 25 em to he in some real. distress. I saw you
when you landed; and when you secure to make supplieation to
the hrtltes that, came with you, I saw one of them lift. up his sword
to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running: down his face. and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, " Is it a real man or an
angel?"--" Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; " it God had sent
au'augeI to relieve you, he would have come hotter clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears ; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you
see I have one servant. only; we have arms and mmuunition; tell
as freely, can we serve you? What. is your ease ? " ----" Our case,"
said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so
near us; but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men
have mntinied against. me; they have been hardly prevailed on not. to
murder me : and at. laat have set, me. on shore. in this desolate plnee,
with mese two men Willi me, one my mate. the other a passenger,
where. we expeeled to perish, believing the place. to he uninllahittd,
and know not. yet. what to think of it."----" Where are these l)rutea,
your enemies?" said I : " Do you know where they nro gone? "--
" 'l'here they lie. sir," said he, pointing'' to a thielutt of trees; " my
heart. trenthles for fear they have seen us. and heard you spunk; if
they hare, thev will eertainly murder us all."----" [lure they any
firearms 2' " said I. He. answered, " They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the, hoat."- -" Well then," snid l. "leave the
real. to me: l see they are all asleep, it is an may thing to kill them
nll : hut shall we rather take them prisoners? " lle. told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was aenrcc safe to

 

show any merey to; lmt if they were secured. he. believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were?
llc told me. he eonld not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would ohey my orders in anything I would direct. " Well," says I.
" let. us retreat. out of their view or hearing. lest; they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went. back with me, till
the, woods eovered us from them.

"Look you, sir," said 1. "if lrenlnre upon your deliverance.
nre. you willing to make, two muditions with me P " lle nnticipnted
my pro iosals. hv telling me. t'hat hot h he and the ship, it recovered,
should to wholly direeted and eounnamled ltv me in every thing;
nnd, if the ship was not reeovered, he would live and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him; and the. two
other men said the same. " Well." says I. " my eonditions are. but.
two: first, 'l'hat while. you stay in this island With me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all occasion, give them 'up to me, and do no prejudice
to me. or mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be governed
by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered.
you will carry me and my man to England, passage free."

No ave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man
could revise, that he would comply with these most reasonable
demands : and, besides, would owe his life to me. and acknowled *0
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. "Well then." said ,
"here are three Inuskets for you. with powder and ball: tell me
next what you think is pro m to he done." He showed me all the
testimonies of his gratitude that he was able, hut oil'ered to be
wholly guided b me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; buttie best method I could think of was to fire u )0"
them at once, as they la , and if any was not killed at the rst
Volley, and oll'ered to an unit, we might save them, and so put it
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot." He said very
modestly, " that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it: but
that. those two were ineorri ible villains. and had been the authors
of all the mutiny in the slip, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all." "Well then," says I, "necessity
ligitimatcs my advice, for it is the eel way to save our lives.
However, seeing him still cautious of sieddin blood, [told him
they should 0 themselves and manage as they ound convenient."

In the mitdlc of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him " if
either of them were the heads of the mutiny?" He said "no."
" Well then," said I, " you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest escu ie you, it is our fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket had given rim in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
Ill his hand; the two men who were with him going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other vcr much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, an called eagerly for help to
the others; but the captain ste ping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for he] ), he should cal upon God to for 've his villaay;
and with that war knocked him down with the stoe of his musket,
so that he never spoke more; but there were three more in the
company, and one ol them was also slightly Wounded. By this time
1 was come; and when they saw their (longer, and that it was in
'ain to rvsist. they brggrd for mrrry. The captain told than he
would spam thrir liww'. If "my would Lriu! him any assu'auvnof
thrir abhorrvnm: ol' tlu- trraclu-ry tbvy had hia'u guilty of, and would
swvar to ho faithful to him in rrrnwriu;r tlu' shi v. and ul'lrrwnrds
in rarrying hrr bark lu .Iainat 'i from "lH'IN't'. tiry canto. 'l'bry
garv him all tln: protrstations ot' lhrir siIu-vritv that. with! be
d4 lt'l'tl, and In" was willing to brlirvo tlwm. and apart: tlu'ir ln'rs,
whirh l was not against, only that l obligrd hint to lu'rp thi'ui
bound hand and too! while Ila-y wrrc on the island.

Whih'. this was doing, I srnt. Friday with the captain's matr to
tho boat. with orders to M'rnrt' hrr and Iain}; away tlu'. oars and
.-Lll8, "'Illl'il tlu'y dill; :nul by and by "tl't't' at :Lgling: turn, that.
were. (happily tor tlimnt partial from the rrnl. ranns b:u-l\ upon
lu'aring tlu- guns tirml' and swim: litt' raptaiu, who lu'l'oru was llirir
prisoncr. now tlu-ir i-nniparrnr, Ilu'y subinittcd to be bound also;
lllttl .'ZKI Ultt' \Ilt'll'l'y \\'.l.\ l't)l|ll'll"l'.

It. now rvmanml that. tho raptain and I should inquirr into one
utmthrr's ('lrvutnslanct. l hrgan tirst, and told him my whoh: his-
tory, \ihivh lu' [want with an atti'nliou own to lltllttzt'lltt'lll.; and
particularly at tho wondvrl'nl mania-r of my brim; furnished with
provisions and annnnnilion; and, indvcd, as my story is a. whole
t'ollrctiou of "'Ulltlt'l'b', it. :ilh'rtvd him th'vply. But. when hi: rrth'rtt'd
from lhrurr upon himsrll', and how I srrmrd to have hrrn prvrrrwd
tlwn: on purpim- In NH" his lit'r, tho. trars ran down his law, ' id
hr ('nnld not. sprak a word inorr. Aflt'l' this ('otmnuuicution wax at.
an vnd, l rarrital hint and hm two turn into my apartuu'nt, h'adin
than in 'usl whrrv l ranu- out, \'iz. at Ihr. top ol' tlu: llttllN', wlu-rrl
t'vt'rmln'd thian with >m'h pl'n\'i.~i0tls as I had, and shom'd llll'llt all
t.lu- rolilt'ii'aiu'rs 1 had made, during my long, long inhabiting of
that plan:

All I bhowrd tlu-inl all I said to thvm, was pvrt'vr'tly' :unaziug; but
uhor ' all. ttn- captain athnirrd my l'm'titlcatiun. and how lwrtt'rtly I
had (-oiu'ralvd my rrtrraL with a grow or lrrvs, which, having; hm n
now plantml urar tm-nty I'rars, and the trrvs growing llItl('l| t'asti-r
than in l'lug'land, was hrmnn ~ a lllllt'. wood, and so thirk. that it. was
ilnpilh 1va III any part of it. bill at. that. onvsidv \\'ltt'l'(: ] had rrst'rvvd
my htllr winding passagr into it.. I told him [him as my (' stir and
my rvsinh'nrr, but that. l had a scat ill tlu' country. as nu;..t. prlnt'm
haw, \\'lut.lu-r I could rvlroal. upon "mansion, and I would show him
that too anotlu-r tinir; but at prrsrut our husitu-ss was [.0 ('ousidrr
how to N'Ctn't'r tlu' ship. lh- : rrvvd with nu- ax Ln that; but. told
Itu' hc waS l't'l't't'rtly (it. a hiss what. nu-asurvs lo I: 'r, for that. lhrrc
wt-n' still a' uid-twi'nty hands on board. who havmg: (-ntrrt'd into a
cursrd ('ous nra y, by whirh they had all l'ort't-itml t.lu'ir livrs to the
law, would in hardrm-d in it. now by drspwation. and "WIN ('ml'y it
nn, lumwiuglhat, il' thry \u-i'itsubdiml, tlwy Would bx: brought. In the
gallows, us soon as thuy canto to England, or to any of the l'lngliah

 

 

    

 

     

r
colonies; and that, therefore, there would he no attacking them with
So small a number as we were.

1 mused for some time ttpon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something' was to he
resolved on speedily, as well to d'aw the. tttett on hoard into some
some for their surprise, as to prevent. their landing upon Its, and
destroying us. Upon this it [)I't'M ntly oeeurred to me, that itt a
little while the ship's crew, Wondering what had become of their
eomrades, and of the heat, would eutainly come on shore in their
other heat, to look for them: and that then, perhaps, they might
come armed, and he too strong,r torus; this he allowed to he ~ iottal.
Upon this, I told him the lirst thing we. had to do was to s we the
heat, whielt lay upon the heaeh. so that they might ttot ( try her
oil'; and taking everythingr out of her, leave he so far use '55 as not
to he lit, to swim; aeeordingly we went on hoard, took the arms
whieh were left. on board out of her, and what ever eise we found there.

Then we. knocked a. grrat hole in her bottom, that, if they had
hum" strong enough to master us, yet they could ttot carry oll' the

out.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first. hy main
strength, heaved the. boat. upon the heaeh sohigh, that tlte tidewottld
not. llnal. her oil' at high-water mark, and besides, had broke a hole
in her bottom too big to he quickly stopped, and were musing what
we should do, we h .. d the ship lire a gun, and saw ltcrtnake a wait
with her ensign as a signal for the heat. to come on heard; but no
heat stirred; and they tired seve'tl times. making other si nals for
the. hunt. At last when all their signals and tiring proved ruitless,
and they found the hunt did not. stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another hoat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found, as they up n-ottehed, that there were no less then ten men
in her, and that they lhad tire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces;
because the tide having: set them a little to the east of the other
heat, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by this means, I say
we llflll a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he said there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy hy the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the heatswain, who, it seems, was the chief ollicer among thetn,
atul all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and
terrihly apprehensive he was that they would he too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men itt ottr circumstances were
past the operation of fear; that seeing almost every condition that

Could he was better than that which we were supposed to be in, we
u.158 Al!\'lfi.':l'l'l(l'.$ (Ill IIUIIINSUN (IIU'SIIIL

0";th In ('Vpl'cI Ilml. Ilw mum-qumm', wlmIIu-r Ilrulh or liI'c, \vnuId
h" NIH." '0 lil' H Kl"|I\l'rqu.I'.

\\'u IlmI, "pun Ilw first. :Imn-zu'unm- nI' IIII' huut's coming I'rnm Hm
ship, ('Ullt'lIII'TI'II ul' 2w I2\I'.IIIH'_{ nul pl'isnIn'I'S' and \\u had. iuIII'I'II,
um'nx'vd lIu'm ('II'I-n'luzx I.\'. 'I'un nl' lIu-m, <<I "quu llu' mpluin was
Inns :ISMII'I'II IIIun III-Jimmy. I .wnl. \\'IIII l"rquy. :nuI nllu' uI' IIu- Ihrvv

 

 

 

   

 

 

dvhn-x'ml Im'n, In my ('zn'v. \H-n' Illry \\'lu'rr I'c'mnlv I-nuu;~ I,
and (MI uI' Jungrr nI' Imm: III'HI'II nI' IINMI'I ml, nr nl' Iimlx IIH'II'
\m (ml nI' Ilu' "mule: Il' Ilu')' cnuIIl Inn'r nIrInn'n'd IIu-um'ln a. I In":

IIIE)' II'l'l lIwm lmuml. Iml "'IH' Ilmu lll'1)\l.\IIIIl?~'. :qu 'n-umm-Il lhmn
iI' IIu'y ('nnliuumI Illl'II' qln H}. In gru'l' IIIvm IIII'H 1")me III .'I day
nr Inn; Iml. IImI il' lIu'y :IIlvmlIInI IIn'ir I'N'Ilifl'. III-'y .\I|nu'.II In: lull
In tImIII "'IIImnl Iurrvy. 'I'III-y luunnsrd I'nilIIIIIII)' In Imu' llu'ir (-uu-
IIIH'IIM'III \IIIII llilIII'IH'I', :Iml \wu' \vr)' IhznnkI'uI IImI IIII~_\' ILIII SHI'II
gnml us :n- us. In lluw- pz'tnINIUIIhHIIII IIHIII II-I'L Illvm; I'm Irrlduy
gmr IIu'Iu l':llllIII'.'~ (~11le :15 "r "Iqu (HH'M'IYI'S) I'nr IIu-ir I'nmI'url ;
muI lIu'y IIIII unI, Inn-u 1m! IIIuI Iu- >lmnl m-nIinvI OH'I' Ilwm :II. II":
l'llI-I'IIIH'I'.

l'lu- uthm' primun'rs II:uI I|I'I'I'.l' us ': urn of "Inn "111' krill.
'nmunvd, iIIIII'I'zI. Im'uum' IIII' val-Iain was nnI. I'I'H' In IrusI IIII'IHC
mI Ilu~ nIlu r Iunm'n' Inkvn Imn my N'l'\'I('I'. npnu lIu- mpIuin's
vaImm-mlulinn. IIIIII nlmn IIIrir mlrmuly rugngmg In Iivr and die.
n III>> nu ; an "'IIII Ilu-m :qu IIII' IIII'I'I' Imnvsl luv", \u' mmv 5mm un-n
m-II III'IIH'II: :IIIII I mzuII: IIIHInulII \w sIInuIII In: :IIIII' In III'ul \vrII
t'IInIIgII will) llu- Iru IIInI \u'rv running, vmmidvring Ilml lIn- vupluin
Iuvl mid IImI Ilwu- \n-n- IIH'l'I' ur I'uur hum-M nu-n unsung: lhu'm :nlm.
As .'mnll us "my gut In IIII' pIuI'v' \IIII'I'I- IIII'II' nIIu'r ImuI I:|\', Ilu')' 1':le
Ihrir Imul mm Ilu- I)l':|('I|. :Iml vulm' ml sIInrv, hauling IIu- Illlnl up
uI'Ivr (In-m, "IIII'II I \ma ;:'I:ul In sm'; for l was :II'I' iII IIII')' \xnuIII
I'uIIn'I' Imu' II-I'I IIII' ImuI :II :III :IlH'IIIH'. sumo IILxlnm'v Ihl'UllI IIN' >110";
\HIII snmv IlzmtIs in Iu'r In :31:qu Iu'l', and .\n \w >IIIIIIIII III)! In' :lIIIu
In .wm' Ilu' InmI. "I'Illg' (m .xlml'v, Ilu' lilaxt Illing llwy (IIII. Hwy
run all In IIH'H' HIIH'I' Imul: 11ml iI W R v: '_v In srr IIu'y \\'( '1'. umII-r
n gzrml. >Iu'prisu In I'm-l III'I' hIl'Il'l'l'lI. :Is (IIDUVI', "I. :III Hm \I: ~i In km,
and :1 grmI Imlv in Izrr ImlInIn. :\I'Ivr IIu-y Inul must-II :I\\'IIII(: upnu
IIIIS. IIII')' srl up I\\'n nr lIIl'l'l' :JI'I'JI .\IlI)||I&_ IIuIInnIn-g \vilII :III I'n'Il
nught. In Irv il' IIH')' I'HHIII mnkz' IIH'II' I'mupnninnx Iu'm'. hill :1" mm
In no purpnsc; Him "In; ('mnv :lII I'IIIM' in :1 ring. and Iirt-II :I \'uIlI-y
of (In-Ir sumII :u'ms, "IIIK'II. iIIIIn-I-II, "'I' lll'fll'II. zqu "W rchnrs 1":qu
Ihv wnmls ring; Iml il \\':\.\' :III nm'; Ilmsr in "W mm' we \\'l'l'I' sun-
('UIIIII nnI Inuxr; :uIII IIIIISP in nur lemming, lhnugh Lhry III'IH'II IIu'I'II
rnnugh, y'I (IIII'SI- 'm' no :lll.\\\('l' In IIn-Iu. 'l'IIr)' \"l'l'I' .x'n :Islnnishcd
uI IIn: surprisr nf I Iis. I-lml. us Ilu-v told us nflvru'urds. Ilu-y u-snlml
I-n go :III on board :lj"lIlI In IIu-ir >I|i I, and IvI IIn-m knnw Ihul Illu
mm mm: a" InunII'mI. and tho Inuglmnl. .\I1l\'l'll; :uw'nrdingly,
thvv Innm'IIIuIrIy IuIIm'III-II II" II' hunt. again, and gut all of them on

bOI'II'II .AM'IaNTHIu-zs OF nonlenN ('Iursmc. 159

'l'hv captain was tvrrihly amuzt-d and 0.va Nmt'mnuh'd at. this,
bulivving tht'y \vould go nu board tin: ship ngain, and art. sail, giving
tln-ir t'unn' lrsovrr for lost, and so hv almuld .xtill tom: the ship,
whirh In: wax in hopus \vv should haw I'm-oVI-n-d; but. he was
quivkly as tllll('ll ti'ightt'lu-d tho ollu-r way.

'l'hvy had not. hvt'u long put. utl' with the boat, but, "'0 pcrt'uiw-d
tln-m all rooting on :aborv again; hut. with this m-w Invaxnrn in thrir
conduct. nhivh it. st-ulns thry consultml togt-Ilwr upon. fix. to h'avo
tln't-u mm in tlw hunt, and tlw rest. to go on .shorv, and go up into
the country to look for their t'rllows. This was a grant. disappoint.
mount. to us, for now we. \vn'o at. a loss what. to do; in; our smiling
thosu sou-n turn on short: would hv no advantugt'. to us, if we lot. the
boat. cscapr; because they would tlwn row away to the ship,ar..1

 

 

tht-n tho rrst. ot' tlu-Iu would bv. Sllrt' to wv vh zunl srt. sail, and so our
n-vovm'ing tln: ship would lu- lost. llowv ' wt: h l no n-uwdy but
to wait and SW what. thv ilet'. of things might. u'ttsan The seven
nwn <<mm: on shore, and the lhrvv who l't'ltltlillt't in tilt: bunt. put: her
otl' to a good distance from the shore, and mum: to an (lllt'tltll' to wait:
for tht'm; so that. it. was impossible for us to mum at. "Will in the
hunt. 'l'hosu who 0:qu2 on shore kopt. oloso togrtlu'r, mnrchinw
towards the to ) of tho little hill uudvr Wllit'll my habitation lay ; am
we (-ould um: tn-m plainly, though t-hvv could not. perceive us. We
could have bm'n \'t'l'_\' glad it thny would haw: count: nnnrcr to us, so
that. wu- might. haw tin-d at. t.|u'm, or that. tin-y would have {gone
fartlu'r otl', that we might. have come abroad. l'ut. when they were
(2mm: to the brow ol' tlu- bill, when: thuy Could an: n grout. way into
the vullcysaud wood>>, which lay towards the north-oust part, and160 "1'.-131111111121; 011 11111111111011 ("1113011.

\1111'1'11 1111' 1.\lullll 1111' 111111151. 111111 511111111111 :IIIIl 1111111101111 11" Hwy were
1111:11'1'; :11111 11111 1':11'111:. 11. 51-111115 111 1111111111 1':'11 1'1'11111 1111' 51111111. 110!
1:11'1'1'1111111111- :1111111111'. 111111 5:11 111111'11 I111__1;1--11111 IIII1l11I' :1 11",11' 1.111'1111-
511111 111" "1:11 1111>>. 111111115111 111 111 11:111' 1.:111111 111 11111'1I1 1111'11'. 11.1: 1111!
11IlII-r part 111 1111' 1111 11:111 11111111 Il1:' '_1 [1:111 11111111. 1111'j1111 .111 115; 11111 Hwy
\1'11'11 11111 11111111 :II I1:1111I1>>i1111x 111 11.111_1:1I'11 1'1'11111r11. 111 1:11 11) sl1'1'I)
"11111;:11 1111' 1' 1111Il1l 11111 11" 11l1:11 1111111:111_2:11'\1'.1:1'11111; 11: 111 111 F1. '11'.

'111111 11:1I1121111 111:1111 :11'11'_\'j11.\'. III'IIImsul 1111111' 11me 1l11>111111 111111111111
111' 11111115 117..111:11 I111'11:1I1:< 1l111_1'1111111111111111'1'111'1111111':I:.1':I:II 1111'11-
111:11'1'1111 111 111:11111 1111.11'11'111111'5111':11'. 111111 Il1111 11'1- 3111111111 3115:1111 "I"'"
1111111. juxl :11. 1111'j111111111'11 11111111 "Mr I1iI-1111s. "1111' all 111:11"l1;11'::1-1l, 111111
llII'_'1 111111111 1'1 I1. '_1111l1' _\'11l11. 11ml ""1 111111111111:11111111'11111'111111111 111111111
3111' 11 l 1: 111' 11 1111s III'11II-111' I1 IH'UV11l1' '11 11 \1' .15 1111111' 11111.11 "1' 11"11'1' 111'111'
IIImeglI 111111IIII' 11I1 11111111111 l111'11I'. 1111 1' 111111111 111:111 1111' I1' I1111111.1 ':11_: :1111.
11111. IlIix 1'1'1'11 11111 11111 l'-'"l'1""- :III1l 11'11 1:11 111111 :1 l1III_:.11 1111111 1'1'1Iy
111'11511111111111111 ('1'lll'x1' 111 1:.1111- \I l1II_1:1|I l 111111111111111111'1'11'1111111
1111. 11111111111: 1111111' 111 1111'11I111111111 Iill 1111.:111 . 111111 1l11II. iI 1.l11'_1'1li1| 11111.
1'1'111111 11) 1111: 1111:11 I11 111: 1px "'11 11113.:111 111111 :1 11:111 111111111 111111111111 1111111
:11111 11111 51111111. :11111 51>> 111111111. 1151' 11111111- 5113111131111 11'IIII 1.111111 lll 1111'.
1:11:11 111 1.:1'1 1111111 1111 31111111 ""11. 11'11111l:11:1'11:11 1111111' 1111111-_:l11'111'_v
iIuII:IIi11III F111 1|1111'I'11111r1'111;:;11111111'1111' 1'11'1 111111.151 11111111 .11111' 111111.:
11111151111: II 11111>> \1'1' \1'111 1111111 :1" 51:11'1 IIII. :11111 111:11'1'11'1111\1'11111111'111111IlII:
511.11 11 51 '11 111.4 11111 11' had >111111 111'1-11111111 :1I1I1111 1111151111" IIImII 1|11I11 01' 1111:
11:11111'1'11 111'1111- I1|:11-1- 111:11 1111' 1' 11~~111111l In 1:11 1111 1111:11111111'. :~'lIiII :11.::1111.
13111-11111'1 1'11111I1:11111>11.~'111'-'11 111111131, 111111 ..11 1.:1) 1111 \111l1 1111" '11 iI111111l11l
1'111. 11:11 11'1111 1111' \111'.)

As 5111111 :11: 1 I11 1'1111'111 1.111111 1111.:11 13111111115 11111. 511111'1' l 1111111.:111111
i1. 111 111. :Is it l"1.'lll\' \1:1> 111:11 llll'_\ 11.111 1111111 111'11' 1111111' 511111111. 111111
11011: 1111' 14111111.: 11:11:11 :11::IIII', :11111 1111' 1':1III.1111, :15 5111111 :1.~' I 111111 111111
1111' 1l111111..1'III:1 :1, was 11.1111 111 111111 111 111'1I1I1111111n11111's 111' 11 [ml 1
1"'" 11111' 111111I1.:|11 11l. 111211.1111111 1.11 1111111 11111111 11111111 again and
11111111 :1111111'11'1'11 1111 1'.":111 111:1 II'IIl11. 1 111111111111 11"1111:1_v 111111 1111' 011p-
111111. male 111 1:11 111'111'1111 111111' 1'1'1'11k 11'1's1.,\v:1r11 11111. "11119 1l111I1111nc
\1'11111'11 11111. -:'11:11_:1. 111111111 1111 1111110 1111111 l"'1i11:111 11:15 1'11x11111l, :1111lz13
3111111 113 111111' 11:11111'. 111 :1 1111111114111; 14111111111, :11 :Il111111 11:111 :1 1111111 1113-
1:'111111 1 1111111 11111111 11:1ll1111 11111 1m 1111111 as 1111-1'1'1111111. 111111 \ 1111 H"
1111'1'111111111 11111. 511311111 11 1111: 1111 1111'111' 111111 1111 51111111 11:1 1-1"1I' 1111111 111:1r11
1111' 31111111111 :111511'1'11 1111111 1l11- -v >l11111l1l I'11.'1111111. :11.:111111 111111 1111- -11 1.1- -1 I1-
1111.: 11111 111 si1r|11 MM :1 111111111 :1111':1_1.'1111:111"1'1111_1: 11111111 ")0. 111l1111's
11:1111111111 111 Jr '1'11 11111111 :13 |:'11 111111 1.1111. isl: '11111, 111111 1111111113.: 11111 111111115
115 ||1)S.\ll)l\. :11111 111111 \1111'11 :11)11111.:1;::1111 to 11111, by s11cl111'211'1111s [
:1111101111 11111111.

"1111111 11'1r11j1151._1.:11111;: 111111 11111 1111:11 11'111111 l'I'iIl11v 111111 1111' 111111.11.
1131111111111: 111111 11111' 11'1111'11111' l1111r11 11111111 111111 11115111111114. 1'1111 11111111;
1111- 51111111. 11114111111 1111\:11'11s 11111 1111111 11111' 111111.11 11111111 11111' \1'11r11
I11'1' M' IIIl_\' "l"l'l"' 11l 111' 1111- 1' 1'1'111, \1'111' '11 11111 11'1111' r l11'III1_: HI) 11111 1'1111111
11111 1511 111'-11', 1111.11 1' 111111 lur 11111110111 111 0111111? 11]) 111111 .1111 1111:111 011:1 ;Al\\'l-'.N'l'lI|lI-'.R III- IImIIVsox I-III'sIm. '01

us. iIIIII- -,IIII I (\III'("I'II. II III~II IIII'V II III SI'I. IIII- IIIIsIIIII-R over, I
IIIIsII I\l'II IIIIII IIIII IIIIIII IIII IIIII; IIIIIIII :I I'IIIIII mm mm IIII- II',II~IIII IIIIII, II:II
iI "I'II'. in :I II: llIlUllI' II'iIIIiIi IIII' iIIIIII. IIIIII IIIIIII Ulllc III "III lIllW'. IIII' n
IIIII III III I' III I'II :IIIIIII" \IiI.II "II III, :IIIII II:II. IIIII II III'I) iII IIII: IIIIIII,
II:IIiIII; I'.I\II-III II lIII'I III IIII' slum}; OI :I link: In I' (III IIIII. :IIIIII:. "IIIis
II:Is \I'II. II I IIisIII-II for, . and mm. mli: III. Iv II:IIVIII;: l I'iIIIIy IIIIII IIIII. (mp-
IIIiII s III III' III IIII'II IIiIsiIII'ss, I IIKIII IIIII IIIsI. IIiIII IIK'. IIIIII I-Iussiug
IIII- I"IIIIIII IIIII IIIIIII II sight, \I'II ~III- DIN II I'm IIIII Im II III-'I'IIIII. I.III-y
\\I'I :IIII: II'II; l)||(' III IIICIII lying on I -. IIIIIIIIII, IIIIII IIII'. KIIIII'I' III III" in
NW IIIIIII. 'IIIIY fIIIIIIIv (In Show \ Ins IIII\\I'l'll sle'piIIg :mII \\' .III'iIII',
and gain: In sum up; IIII: II:III. I,\IIIII ":h I-I)I'I'IIIU.\'I, I'IIII iII IIINIH
IIIIII, :IIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIII IIiIII IIIIIIII- , :III I III'I' 'll (.IIII II IIIII II) IIiIIi III III('- lmat
III \'II III. or II(' II:Is :I III :III IIIIIII 'IIIII I'II IIIII:IIIIII \' Iv III IV :III:IIIII(~IIIs
III II' IsuIIIII- :I siIIgIII III III to field II III II III: s. w IIII. IIIIIII upon him,
IIIIII III'? ("iIIlIII IIIIi kIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII':;I IIII>iIII~.I:, lIIis II:Is, iI. SIIIIIIIII, (mo of
IIH" IIII'I'I'. IIIIIII \\"Ill' IIUI so IIII' ' iII IIIit IIIIIIiIIII us IIII' Icsl. III "II:
I'l'l' III. and [III II Inns \ :Is II:IsiII' II... II:IIIIIII IIIII IIIIIy III III III IIIII :IIII I'-
\\ .IIIls In inin III-ry siIIIII I'I I\' IIiI.II us III IIII' IIIII:III IIIIII', IIriIIIIy IIIIII
IIU'I II:IIIIuiII .s IIIIIIII so \\I' III IIIIIIIII'.' (III "III II IIIIIIiIIIIss "I'IIII IIII" III'sI. III:II.
"III (III' "\\ IIIII I,nI IIv II:IIIIIIIIIII: :IIIII IlllS\\-'('.|III',:, IIIIIII am III" III :IIIIIIJII-I,
:IIIII II'IIIII IIIIII IIIIIIII In :IIIII'IIII IIII IIIIIy IIIII only II :IIIII_\ IiI'I-II IIII III
IIIII II II IIII III \IIIII'II: IIII_I' III I'IIIv SIIII' IIIII (-IIIIIII III)! II'.' IIII II:III II II)
IIII' III-.II IIIIIIII'I: it \HIb II:IIII; :IIIII, IIIIII'I'II, III('\ IIIIII- II"1ll|Ii_\ III'IIII
IIII- IIII~II IH'.\ III.\() I)_\' IIIII. IIIIIII III'.' I (.I'llm'. II:III II III us

\\ I- II:III IIIIIIIiIIfi; IIIIW I0 IIII IIIiI In "Mr II IIIr III: III in IIII' II:Il'k :IIIII
II) IIIII IIIIIIII "WI", 5:) II.\ I:I IIII.III- MII'I' \I'III'I'I \\'IIII IIII'III II II:III
SI'VI'I'HI IIIIIII'II :II'II-I' I'II .I_\' "In": I)'I.'I; II) :III- IIII II I' IIIII) :IIIIII- II:IIIk
III IIII' Il' haul; and we r-IIIIIII IIIIII I'm: II)I"IIII)3I, III' IIII III, II:III: Ill I'IIII'
IIIII IyI 'IIIIII' (IIIIII' "1|, I'HIIIIIL,' III IIIIN'. IJI IIiIIII III I-IIIIII :IIIIIII'; :IIIII I'IIIIIII
HIM) III :II' IIII'III :III~:I\I I, and I'IIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIII' IIIIIIII :IIIIl "III II IIIII I_\I III-III,
.IIIIII IIIII IIIIII- III ('UIIII'I any IIIsIII', "II:I'II II:Is \"(IV \\I"I(I|llll' III \Is II)
u>. .'\I IIIII'III IIII')' ('I'IIIIII III) III IIIII IIImI; IIIII H is iIIIIIIIssiIIII: II)
(\IVII'SS IIII II I'IIIIlIIsiIIII "III II IIII' -_\I IIIIIIIII IIII' IIIIIII Insl 'I'UIIIIII III the
I'I'I'I" IIIII IIIII' I-~lIIIIII IIIII, and "Mr IIIII IIII-II 5.:IIIIII. I II'NIIH'II II)
\I': III, III \I I' i! IIII\ (IIII IIIII. SI'IV 'IIII', III,)II IIII I'IIIIII' III III:IIIII. .\IIrI' ()I
IIII III, I IIII II "II :IIIIIIIIsI-IIIIII. IIIIIIIII I, :IIIII IIIIIIIIIIII MN. II and IIII' mp-
IIIiII III ('lI'l") ullnll IIII'II II II II\ and lIIII. II~ I'IUM' II) We I.:I'IIIIIIII :Is
IIII .' I'UIIIII, IIIIII. IIIII IIIiglII. IIIII I)(' III: I)\'( IIII. :IIIII _I.:III ilh' III- III IIIIIIII
:6 III: I IIIIIIIII pImsiIiII', IICIIHI' IIII y IIII'I-IIIII III IIII'

"'IIII) II III IIIII IIIIIII IIIIIIJ; III IIIIII. IIIIsIIIII: II III II IIII' IIIIIIIMYI'IIII \\ III)
. IliII [IIIIII iIIIII Iiug -.IIII- II III IIH' IlIlIIlII). and II: III IIIIII shown him-
.xII'II IIII- mural IIIjIIIIII-II IIIIII IIisIIiIiII-II III :III, II:IIIII' II.IIIIiII3_: IUWHIIIS
IIII- III. II iIlI I\\II IIIIIII~ (II IIIII (Ir-III. IIII'. II:IIII: IIII was an (':I'.,"("l III. having
this IIIiIII-ilIIII IIIgIIII .in IIlllI'II in his IIIIIII'I', III: II III' I' 'HIIIII II.IIIII3 II:IVI'
I:I' II'III'I'. II) III IIIIII IIIIIIII~ M) IIIIIII' .Is In IN'. sun: II him I'm IIII'V only
II :IIII hire IIIIIIIIIII IIII IIIIII: IIIII \I'IIII II "w v I'nIIIII III-:III I IIIII PfilpII'IIIl and

hub). <I:IIIiiII.: up I)" IIIL'II II I:,I IcI Ily :II IIIIIIII. 'I'Iic boatsnain was
H" xI"? ADVI:1NTL'RI".3 ()l' HUIUNSUN FINISH?"

ttith-(t upon tho alt-IL; tlu' Iii-\'t. mall was shot in t.ttt' hmty. and fvtt
just h_v him, thnugh tiv Itilt nut ulir litt an hour ur twu at'lvr; amt the
thirst ran for it. .-\I Itw nuisr uf tht' tire, I iuum'ttiatvtv attvanct'd
with my \x'hutv army. which mm mm right mun. \'iz' mysvtt', gcum'at-
iasinm; Friday. my tirutrmmt gvm'ral; thv captain amt his two awn,
and thc thrt-c priwm'rs uf war, \\'hnm \vc hmt truxtr'tt with arnm.
Wr vanw upon tin-m. imh'rd, in thu dark. so that. tht-y mnht not. are
our mnuhrr ; amt l Itttlttt'. 1hr man they had loft in ttw huat, who was
nuw um- M as. tn ('att thrm hy uanu'. tn try it' t ('uuht him I tlu'm to
a paltry, amt MI might f- 'mlis rwhm- thmn tn turnm; whim fall out.
just aw \n- ttl'Stl't'lt', t'nr, Imh'mt. it was _\' tqthink, ax lhrir ('tlHttt-
tlun ltu-n was. they wunhl ttt' wilting tr '1 vitutatlt. Sn he calls out.
In hunt R?>> hr (<<with In mu' ut' tin-m. "'t'nm Smith t Tom Smith 5"
Tom Smith annwvrmt ilunu'ttiatt'ty. "Is that Ituhinsnn ?" For it.
scrum. hr tuu'w ttn' min: 'l'tu' uttu-r ans" at, " .-\_v, as ; for Unit's
satm. 'l'um Smith, throw nluwn ymn' arnw amt yirttt, or you arr att
(ti-ml Im'n thimnnmvnl." " Who must. w yirht In? Whrn- im- thry ?"
says Smith again. " tlrx't' thuy arc," saya ta". " tll'l't '3 uur captain
amt lit'ly mm with him. haw hn-n huntm; 3'qu ltll'M' tam hnm's: the
Imatawain is kittnt, Witt Fry ix \\'Ulllltt|'lt, amt l am a lvrimnrr; amt
it you .10 not yirht. you an: alt lusty." " Witt ltu-y gin: us quarter
lhrn P" sms Tom Smith, "amt \H'. witt yii'ht." " t "1H ;:n amt ask,
if \u u pruulisv tn _\'i('t\t," says ltnhiuauu: su hr mt'nt tho 'aptain;
and ltu ittttlt himartl' thvu (watts nut. " Yuu, Smith. you knmr mv
.vuirv; "nu tay :tuu'n ynur arm: imnu'dialrty, amt suhmit. you shut!
haw your tin-3, att but Witt Atkina."
 

lTRlNS \l'l'tll-fa'l's' 'I'Ill". C.\l"l'.\l'l 1'1) Sl'zllll'l IIIS HFI". Tl": IAT'I'RR
RECIH'tZIRN [HS \'l"'4.l".l. FROM Till-Z Mli'l'lk .F.I(SA AND ROBINSON
LEAVES l'lll-l ISLAND.

 

     

lll'lN this \l'ill Atkins (Tins mil, " Fm- Gml'a sake, 0aptain, give me
quartm': what. haw l dnln'l' 'l'lu-y haw: all law" as hatl as l:"
"'lllt'lt. by llw way. n as nnt lrnr; fur it manna, this Will Atkins was
"in first man ill I, lzlltl holtl til the militant "'ltl'll tlu'y Innlinii'd,
'lltl ll.\l'll him liarharnusl)'. in lying his hamla, and giving; him inju-
riuus language. llo\\~'\'t't', Ilw captain tuhl him he must lay down
his an -tll'~('l't'lil|ll and trust in tlu: gm'vrnur's nu-rvy ; by which
lu- ll|t'.'llll nu'. t'm' lln ill (-ullml tnn governor. In a ward they all
laitl (hurt! their :lt'ttl\ :nnl lu'ggt'tl thvir lmuv. and l N'lll thc Illiul
that. haul parh'yml "ith "WI". and tau Inurt', "'hn lmnnil tlu'nl all;
and lhvn my grt'at army ul- lil'ly nwu. whirl! particularly with those
lhrm'. \n-rt' in all hut right. ranw up and svizml "me tlwtn. and upon
lln'ir lmal ; only that l lwpt myst-ll' and one nun-v. out. of Sight. l'or
l't'asnns nl'atalt'.

()ur nvxt work was In repair tlu' hnat. and think of solving llm
ship: aml as for "H" mplain. Ilmv ln' hail ll'iStll't' tn path-y with thl'm.
llt' vxpmtulatml with llll'lll upon the villain}; of tlu-u' pramh-vs with
him. aml at lvn-gth upon tlw lurtllm' \vn'ki-ilnvm of Ila-1r (Ii-sign, aml
ltuu' t-rrtmnly it must. lil'ttlg' tin-m I." misvry and (lhtrt-ss in the Hill,
and lli'l'ltiltm tn Illt' gallun's 'l'ln'y all uppt'al'vd wry punila'ltt. lllltl
ln'ggi'il haul l'm' tlu'ir ln'vs. As l'm' that. ltt'. l.nl(l lln'm that. they
\H't't' nmw ut' his plasma-rs. hat, the cttllllllfltitlt'r's ul' thv island ; that
tiny thmrrht lhvy hml svt lnln un short: on a l):ll'l'('ll, ulnnliahitt'd
bland ; hut It had ph'ast'il (ital so to dirt-cl thvm, that It was inhabit.-

it 2
ed. and Mini. lhe governor was an Englishman; Hint he might. hung
"will all Ihere, if he plezisn-il; hui :l.\ he hail given them all (nui'li'i,
he supposedin1\\'nnhl.~i'mi them all In England, to he. den l. with
lher: HS jnsliee required, excepl .-\l|\'ins, whom M was emnmnnih'il
h_\- the governor ln :ui\'i>r to prepare for death, for Lhnt he would hu
hung; in the nun-Hing.

'l'huugh n" this was but :i iielion of his own. yet, it hzui Hie. ilvsiri-d
ell'eei: Atkins fell upon his kne-s, to beg: lhu eupinin lo inlerrnle.
wilh 1he governor for his lil'l'; and H." the I'NI. I)!';{"I'li of him, for
(imi's snlug thni Ihry mighl not he. sent to l'inghunl.

 

Tl, now oeeurn-d in me lhnl. the. lime of our de|iveruunm was come,
and lhnt it would in- .'| nmsl- easy Ihing to bring: these "ellows in in
he hmriy in gelling I'Uhsi'N'SiUll ul' Ilie ship; so I retired in lho dnrk
from them. that lhe)' mighl. no! see what kind of n governor they
il:|(i. :nnl enlienl the eiiplnin In nn': when l euih'ii, :m at n, guml
(immune, one of the mm was ordered to speak nguilu, nnii my to lhi:
cnplain, " ('nplnin, the eunininniler enlis for you 2" and liresentiy lhe
enplnin replied. " 'l'ell his eweih-ney l mu just nroininq. ' This more.
perfectly ih'eeivmi (hem. .'nnl lhi')' :ill helim'ed that the mnnniunh-r
wzisjns't, by with his lil'ly men. l'pon the. eziplnin's coming Io me. i
luhi him my In'ujrel for se ' lg the ship, whieh he liked \Vnmlm'l'uily
well. and resolved Io pni. it inln exeenlion the next morning. Bul,
in order to exeeule it with more heart, and lo he srenre of Nll('('('.\fl,
I told him we. mn>| divide. the primners, :nui lhon he should no and
lake Atkins and lwo more of lhe. worst. of them. nnil semi llll'lll
pinioneil lo Hie mm where the. others This was committed in
Friday and {he two IH.'II who (tune on shore with 1he 'illlnin. They
Were eunveyeil lo the cure. :is in a prison: and il. was imh'i'd n Alis-
nlnl place, esln'eiuily In men in their eunihlion. The, others I
on red to my hower. i l eniied it, of whleh l have given n full
deseriplinn: and :Is it was feneed in and they piniulu'ii. lhe place
was secure enough. eunsiili'i'ing they were upon kln'n' hehzn'iuur.
To these in the morning I sent. 'he eaplai-t. who wan to enter into
n parley with them; in a word. to try tltem' and tell me whether lo
though: they might he trusted or no to go on hoard and .xllf'll'lflt! the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done hint, of the. ('outlillou
they \rere brought. to, and that. though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives as to the present. notion. _ 't. that it they were
sent. to l'lnglnnd, they Would all he hanged in ehuinaI to he sure : hat.
that it they would join in so just. an attem Dl ax to recorer the ship,
he weold hare the governor's engagenn-nt or their pardon.

Any one may ;-,u. :1 how readily such it proposal Would he no-
eepted hy men in their eondition; they fell down on their knees to
the eaptaio. and promised, with the deepest. llll])l"t't'ttll(|tl3, that they
would he l'ailhl'nl to him to the last drop, and that they should owe
their lives to him. aml would go with lnm all over the world 2 lhat
they would own him as a father as long as they lived. " Well," says
the I itaia, " I must go and tell the governor what. you say. and src
n hat. ran do to bring him to eonreut. to it." So he. brought. me all
:n't'ottnl ol' the temper he had t'ound them in, and that he. verily he-
liered they would he. faithful. However. that we might be very
seeure. I told him he should go haek again and choose out those tire,
and tell them that. they might. see. he did not want men, that he
would talte out those tire. to he his assistants. aml that the. governor
would keep the other two. and the three that were sent prisoners to
the t~lle (my eare) as hostages l'nr the fidelity of those tire; and
th. . If they proved ltl aitht'ul in rxeeutiou. the lire. hostages should
he. hanged in chains alive on the shore. 'l'hin looked severe, and
mun-im'ed them that, the governor \'as in earnest: however, they
had no way left. them hut toaeeepl. it- and it. was now the. huainess
ol' the prisoners. ' murh as of the captain, to persuade the other
lire to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first the
captain. his mate. and passenger; seeoud, the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom. having their eharaeter from the captain, I had
given their liberty. and trusted them with arms- third, the other two
that I had lu-pt. till now in my hower, pinioned, hut, on the captain's
\notion. had now released : fourth. these live released at, last; so that
\M'it'. were, twelve in all, besides tire We. kcpt. prisoners in the raw
l'or hostages.

When I showed mvsell' to the two hostages. it was with the cap-
tnin. who told them l was the. peraon the governor had ordered to
look after them ; and that. it was the governor's pleasure they should
not. stir any where hut. by my direetion; that it" they did. they would
he fetched into the atstlo and la d in irons: so that us we never
sull'ered them to see me as the governor. I now appeared as another
iersou. and spoke of the governor. 'he garrison. the castle, and the
like, upon all oe rasions. . . _

The captain now had no dillieulty before him, but to Tan-wish ht:
two boats, stnp illt' ltl't'llt'll at one, mnt man "will. "0 made his
)msscngvi' captain of inn; with four of lllt'. mini; and liinisi-It'. his
nnitt', anil tiw inuri', "'('Hl in tliv nthi-r; aiiil tlwy itiintriw'il thvir
liiisiiii'ss \i-i'y \i'i'll. t'iir tln'y ('ainv up tn llll' ship :iliniit midnight.
As simn as tho)- i-aim' \\ itliiii ('Illl of "in ship. ltt' iiiath' lluhinsun hail
lllt'lll, and it'll thi'in [hi-y hail hrmiglit all. thn lltl'll :inil thi' hiiat, hilt
that. it. was a lung Iinn' lii-l'nri- tln-y hail rfllllltl llii-ni. and "It! like,
hiihlin; lllt'lll in :i i-liat till "my mum: to tho ship's sithi; Wlll'll the
('ziptaiii iniil lln: inatu Cllll't'lng first with lllt'lr arms, inlnicdiatlcly

 

knm'lmil down the si'i'uiiil matt' iinil viii'lii'ntvr \Vllll the hut. out] of
thvir nniskt-ts. ltl'lllf: \('t faithfully '('tll|llt'(l hy lhvir mini; thi-y su-
nlli'i'il iill IlH' rt'st that \\'('l't' iipiiu the iiiiiiii :inil ([llltl'lt'l' tll'('k$. anil
hogan to l'nsti'n thi' llill('lll'.\, tn kvi'p "It'lll (ll)\\'ll that. "'(Yl't' hi'liiw;
wlu'n thv uttii-r huat mid their lllt'tt ('nli'riiig at the fnrv-t'liains.
St'l'lll't'tl lllt' Iiii'i'vasth- iil' thi- ship. and tho si'iilth' which wont tlUWll
intu thv ('Holi-t'ttttlll, making lltl't't' niml thi'y liniiitl thorn ln'isunt'rs.
"Vlwn this "as llUtlt', :llltl :ill snt'v npim (li'('l;, thi- cantnill Ul'tlt'l't'tl film
inatv, "'tll) llii'm' mm, In tin-at; into the rmiiul-tiiiusi', where the new
ri-tii-l captain l 3'. \\'ll\' having laki'n ll|t'. :ll'ltl. had got u i. and with
hm "It'll mid : int-V hail gut tirv arms in their hands; :nnll "'ltt'll thu
inati', \vitli ii crow. split upi-ii thu (limr. thi- ni'n' captain and his ini-n
lll't'tl hiilill :unmig tlii-ni. ..nil \\'()l|lltll'tl tlw inati' With a inuski-t hall,
"'hn'h hm'v his arm and "'Uulltll'tl l\\'(l min-i: ut' tln' nwn, lint. klllt'tl
nuhmly. 'l'hi' inati' 'nllnig fur llt'l'l. ritshvil. lnni'i'i'i'i'Jnto the round-
llnust'. wniimli-d as hi' was. and Will] his pistul shut. thit now captain
thruiigli the hand, iiimn \i'hii-h the rvst yii-lilml, and [ltt' ship was
taken i'tli'i'tually, \i'ithnut any inure livi's lust.

As simn as llll' ship was thus St't'lll'l'tl, thi- i-ziptain (H'llt't't'tl SI'H'H
guns to DU lll'l'tl. \\'lttt'l| was thv signal tigri'i'il iiium nith luv to give
um notico of his siii-i-i'ss. \\lllt'll yi-n may hi: suit: I \ixis wry glnd to
hear, having sat watching in am the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having tins lumrd the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of vrcat fatigue to me, I slept very
seuml, till I was something snrpriset with the noise of a. an; and
presently st artiug up, I heard a man call me by the name of" orernor,
Governor," and presently'l knew the captain's voice; when climbing
up to the top ol the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
emhraeed me in his arias. " My dear friend and dehvcrer," as s he,
" there's your ship. for she is all yours, uml so are we, and ul that
belong to her." 1 cast my eyes to the ship, and there she. rude
within little more than hall. a mile of the shore; for the had weigh-
ed hcr anehor as soon as they were masters of her, eat the weather
llt'lll" lair, had brought her to an anchor just against the month of
the Futile creek ; aml the tide. being up, the captain had brought the
pinuaee in near the place where l at first lauded In rafts, aml so
anded just at my door. 1 was at first ready to sink (own with the
surprise. ; for I saw my delivuranee, indeed, Visihly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large. ship just. ready to carry me away whither
I pleased to go. At first, for some. time. I was not able to answer
him one word; but as he had taken me. in his arms, 1 held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. 1 embraced him as my
deliverrr, and we l'e'oieetl together.

When we had tallied a while, the ca )tllill told me he had brought
me seine little refreshment, such as the ship all'orded, and such as
the wretehes that had been so long his masters had not plundered
him of. U )ou this he called aloud to the boat, aml bade his men
bring the things ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it.
was a present as if 1 had been one that was not to be carried away
with them, but as it 1 had been to dwell upon the islaml still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters,
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each),
two pounds ul' excellent. good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef. and six pieces of )(Il'lt, with a bag of peas, and about a
hundred weight of biscuits: to also brought me a box of sugar, 3
box of llour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. lint, besides these, and what was a.
thousand times more useful to me, he brou'ht me six new clean
shirts, six very good neekelolhs, two pair ol'g ores, one pair of shoes.
a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a. word, he clothed
me from head to feet. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and an-
easy. as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.

After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little aparhuent, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth163 AI\\'II.N'I'I'III-?fi 0F RONINSON I'RI'SDF.

(-nusidvrin: \\'|u~Ihx'r \\'I' might vrnIuI'v In Inkv Ihmn n\\'n.\"\\-'iIh
us nr nu. I'spm'IuII)' I\\'n nI (In-m. "Inn" "1' Imrn' In_ In' ilu-nrrlglhh'
:qu I'vI'rnvInrv In lIu- Inst dram-v : :ImI IIu' (-npmiu .xqu hr kin-w lhry
\wm suvh rnicm-h. thul Iln-rv was nu nhligin; IIu-m: and if In: IIIII
r: 'xv Ihmn 2n n'. it mual In- in irunn, as mnlvl'urInm, In In' (IvIlwrmI
mm: In 'ustu-v 5M 1hr lira! I'lllglidu mInny In- vnuhI cmm' 5H; and I
I'mumI lhul Ihv mluuin Ilium-If "11> wry :mxinus :Ihnut lI. . Iipnu
this I IuIII him. that if hr dvsirmI 1!. I would mulvrlnkv In In'mg IIm

I\\n mvu hv spqu' nl' In mqu it their mm rrqu. IhuI. hv should

     

 

gnaw Ihvm "pun IIu- Maud. "I SIH'IIIII Iw w ' ghul nI' Hull." 5 I
IIn- vapluiu. " uiIh all my hmrl." " "ML". 5 I, " I "ill N'IIII I'm'
Ilu'm up, and lnIk "ilh II|('HI I'nr ynu." Sn I mum-<<I I"ri v and Ihc
Iu'n hunluan'x. I'nr (hwy \wn' nmr (Ilsrhm'gml. Iht'ir ('nuhzuII-s having:
er'nruu'II IIu-ir In'nnnw- I my. I mused lIu-m In ;:n In Ihv raw and
win: up lIw l'm' nn'n. luninuml :m Hwy \n'n'. In Ihr huwvr. :nnI Iu-vp
Iht'm Ihvrr [III I mum: .\lI<-I' snnn' Iillu', I ('mm' Ihilhm' tIrvsSNI Ill
my m-w ImhiI -. :nuI now I "us th-J Ihc ;:n\'C/'l'nnr again III-hug HII
IIN'I, :qu Ihx-mplum with um. I munmI lhr mm In hv Ill'(lll;:I|I 'n-l'nrc
luv, and I Inhl (In-m | hml gnI :x In" :u'vunul nf Iheir \'ilIunnus
Iwhmimn' In lIu'u' mpIuin. :md Inm' III-xv hml rur :Iu'uy \ulh Ihv >hi |_
and \rer prc'pnriug In mnumt IEII'IHI'I' rnInhvrirs. lmI lImI I'mvhh'nrv
hmI (-nmmwl lhrm HI lhru' nwn \\: :ImI Ihul Ihv)' \u-rr I'uih'n inln
IIu- pH. which lln-y hmI 1I1|;:Ihl'n'.IIa-'s. I IN IIu-m Lumv lhuI by my
Ihn-('I inn lhv >Ill]\ InuI hwn N'iIv-I. IImI SIH' Iuy now in IIu- mud:
and Hwy might N'I' hy :qu h\'. lhn. Ihvir new c-upInin had n-wiwd
IIu-rmmnInl'Ins\'1II:|II)'.:III<<I Hm! (lu'y \muhI svv him hanging at
'.Iu' yuni :trl'.) : Ihul :15 In l.lu:xu, I "mind In Immv "'IInI IIu'y had In
any way I should not. oxrcnto t.lu-m as pirntos, tnkvu in the tau-l. as
by my t'ouuuissinn tlu-y oould not. doubt. hot. I had authority so to do.
(hu- ot' tlu'm tumwnrvd in tho name of tho rvsl, that. tlu-y luul
nothing to say but. this. that. when they Wt't't' tnkon, the captain
u'nmi.~(~d thou: tlu'ir lives. uud they humbly implored my tuuroy.
Int ltold llu-m I know not. whnt mercy to show IIu-m; for us for
input", I had rosolvvd to quit. the ishind with ull my own, nnd had
to 'in n pnsmgu with tho mptniu to go to l'luglnnd ; nud n3 for the
captain, lu: could not. ('m'ry tluuu to l'iugluud ot lmr thuu an prisoners,
in irons, to ho triod for mutiny. nud running,r :m'ny with tho ahi I: tho
coim-qnmu-o of which. thoy must. nn'ds know, would he the gn how;
so that I could not. tell wluit. was host, for tlu'm, nnlvss t.lu-y hnd a
mind to take thoir fnli' in tho island; if they desired l.hnt., M I had
Iiliort ' to h-un- tho island. I qul somo im'liunliou to give lluuu their
lin's. 't.ln-y thought. llwv ('ould shift. on shore. 'l'lu-y xoomod very
thankful for it. and snid they would much rnthm' vvuturo to slny there
than In: 'nrru'd to I'luglnud to ho lumgi'd; so I lofty it on thnt. issm'.
\I'lu-n lln'y had all (IN-lurvd their willimnoss tn stny, l lhuu told
llu-m I would h-t. thmu into the story of my living: thorn. mul put.
Iltl'tll into the wuy of making it. ('nxy to them: tu'aordingly, I gin-n
IIll'lll tho. whoh' history of tho plm'o, mid of my coming to it. ; showed
thnm my fortifications. the wuy l nuuh- my ln'oad, plnulvd my corn,
cured my grams; nnd, in in word, all that was Iu'omsnry to m:
tlu'm t'nsy. I told I-llt'lll tho story also of tho m-vontm'u Spnuinrds
that, wore to he l'xpootml, for whom I lt-I't, n h-ttvr, uud mndc tlu'm
protnist', to trout. tlu'm in counuon with llu-msolv Ilvrt' it. mny ho
uotrd, that. the t'uptuin luul ink on honrd. who u s groullv surprist'd
that I m'i'orhit upon :i \':u' of making ink of c . 'oonl nud wntnr, or
of smoothing also, am I had done things much more ditlh-nlt.
IIII\\'('\'t'I'. tho vuptniu sovnu'd to mnlm some dillii'ulty of it, ns il'
ln- thus! not Ionvo thom tlu'rc. Upon this I St't'ltlt'tl n littlo nngry
with tho c:ipl.niu, and told him that they wore my prisoners. not his;
mid sot-ing- thin. I luul oll'crod Lhmu so much favour. I would be its
fluid as my word: nod that. it lu- did not. think lit. to oonm'nt to it,
I would not. thou) nt lilwrty. us I found tlunn; told it' he did not. like
it he might. tnko tluuu nqnin. it In: could t'ntvh tlu-m. Upon this
"try uppvnrod vory thnnkl'nl. and I nooordinu'ly sot them at liberty,
and lmilo thom rotiro into Ihc woods to tho plan-o. whonoo they ciuuo,
nnd I would loom llu-m some Iirn-nrms, snuu' ammunition. and some
dirootions how thoy should live vvry well, it "to thought. lit. Upon
thin I propnrvd toguou hoard thuship; hut. told t-hovnptnin I would
stny that night to proparo my things. and tICSII't'tI him to go on hourd,
in tho. mono limo. :nul kocp all right in the ship, and .wud tlu: hunt.
on shorv uoxl. day for mo; Ut'lIt'I'Itlf: hint. at. all (-vvuls. to cause the
now onplnin. who was killed, to be hanged :d. the )'tu'tldll'ttl, that
"lost! nu-u might. svo him.
1 h't't thvm my lire-arms, viz. Iivc tunakuts, tlu'uc funding-pieces,
15170 anvtzxrunes or ROBINSON cause:

and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left;
for alter the. first year or two 1 used but little, and wasted none. I
gave them a description of the way 1 mana ed the oats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to ma'e both gutter and
elterse: in a word, I gave them every part. of my own story, and
told them 1 should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gun tou'dt'l' more, and some garden seeds, which I told
them I would have been very glad of: also I gave them the hag of
peas which the captain had brought. me to eat, and bade them he
Sure l0 5()\" and increase lllt'lll.

Having done all this, I left. them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We. prepared immediately to sail, but. did not. weigh that
tug-ht. The next morning early, two of the tire men eame swimming
to the ship's side, and making a mest lamentable complaint. of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, fortht-
should be, murdered. and begged the captain to take them on board):
though he hanged them innnediately. Upon this, the. captain pre-
tended to have no power without me; but alter some dillienlt. ', and
after their solemn promises of amendment. they were taken on card,
and were some time after soundly whipped and pickled: ul'ter which
they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time. after this, the boat. was ordered on shore. the tide
bring up, with the things promised to the. men; to \vhielt the cap-
tain, at my interet. sion, 'aused their chests and clothes to he added,
which they took, and were. very thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that. it' it lay in my power to send any vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.

W hen I took leave of this island, I carried on heard, for reliques,
the great goat-skin eap l had made, my umbrella, and one ol m
parrots; also I forgot. not. to take the money I formerly mentionet,
which had lain by me so longr useless that. it. had grown rusty
or tarnished, amt could hardly pass for silver, till it. had heen a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wreck of the
Spanish ship And thus I left. the island, the 19th of December, as
I found by the. ship's aeeouut, ill the year 16-56, after I had been
upon it eightand-twenty years, tvvo months, and nineteen days;
being delivered l'rom th' second captivity the same day of the. month
that. l tirst. made my ereapc in the long boat, from among the Moors
ol' Sallee. In this vessel, alter a long voyage, .l arrived in England
"lie llth of June, in the year 1657, having been thirty-tire year:
it sent.\gt

 

SECTION XXVIII.

ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, WHERE HE FINDS THE PORTUGUES,
CAPTAIN, "'IIO BENIN-"LS "I." AN ACCOUNT OF HIS PROPERTY IN
THE Blt;\ZlLS.--SE1'S OUT ON HIS RETURN TO ENGIAND BY LAND.

Wnnn I came to England, I was as perfect a. stranger to all the
world as it' I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I left my money in trust with, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble; but on
the contrary, in rutitudc tor former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as "'51 us my little stock would ufl'ord; which, at the time,
would allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget. her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when
I had suttieient to help her, as shall he observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: but. my father and mother
were dead, and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one of my brothers, and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me : so that. in a. word, 1 found nothin" to relieve or assist me: and
that the little money I hud would not do much for me as to settling
in the world.

I met. with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not: expect;
nnd this was, that the master of the ship whom I so happily
delivered, and by the same menns saved the ship and cargo, havin
given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how
had saved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and all together made
me It, very handsome compliment, upon the subject, and a present of
uhwrst two hundred pounds sterling.I72 AIH'I-ZXTI'HHS or nmnxsnx ('Iu'snn.

IInI. :II'II'r making sm-I-rnI I'I'III'I'IIHIIS Imnu I'Iw (-in-mnslnncm of my
III>>: and Imw IiIlIl- way (I:i~ \'IIIIIII :u Inward: .sn-Illmg luv u: IIIu
wm'III. I I'I'NII\'('(I In 34-! In Ilhlmn. :nnIM'r if I IIII'IIII unl ('mm' hy
sunu' inl'nrmulmn nl' IIu- >l:uv (If m} IDIJIIIIIIIDII In Iln' II|:ILII.\. and of
"In! \I" ~' Ibrrumv nl~ my qun'lm'r. \\'Im, I InuI rmmm In suppnsx', Ilzu')
5mm" '\'x. ~' pnxl gn'vu IIII' mrr I'm' III'IIII' \\ iIII IIIia \'n'\\' I InnIi
shipping Inr Lislmn, whn'ru I :IrrirwI in April following; my man
Friday :n'vmnlhmflng Im- \'I'I ' IInxnr>II_\ In H" IIN'N' rmnhIInf's. :ImI
[nnvmg a mural l'unIII'nI mum! npuu :III HIT-'IhIUHS. "In-HI mum!
In InsIInn, I IunmI nnl, In} Inquiry. and In my Inn'lirnInr ~\:Ili.\I'.'I('Iiml.
m_\ "III I'rimnI lhr cupmin nI' IIn' >Inp wlm lirsI lnnL I|.l' up :u sm "II
MW Show 01' [\fl'II'fl. III' was nnw . 'nwn 0M, and Inul II'I'I nII' gniug
In . , Inning pnl Ilix' mm, who wzw l'ul' from) :I y-mng mun. infu his
ship, :lIllI wIm .xliII IIM'II Iln' IIrnziI IrmIv. 'I'In' "III mun II||I nnl kunw
nn'::lmI, IIUII'HI. I ImerI)' km'w Imn Iml I .sunn In'nnghl III!" In my
n-mrqurmu-p' and :1\ 3mm In'nllgII: IllySI'II. In his FCIIu'mIn'uln'I',
"Iu'n I IUIII him wIm I \\;;,\_

.\l'Iu~r snmv pawinnnh- C/~\|\rvs~'imm nI'IIw "III :wquninIum'u- Iu'lwcn'n
m, I IIIIIIIII'I'II. _\'<<m may In' sum: :II'II'I' my pInnlulIun and my panm-r.
'I'IIr IIIII m;m IUIII mv In- IImI not Im-n in "w Iil'uxils l'nr :IImnI. mun
_\'r':n'.~-. Iml IImI In- I'<IHI|I :lSSlIl'I' mr lIun wlwu In' 0.an :l\\'.'l_\' my
lun'Im'r was |I\'m_-:; Iml lIu' II'IMI' s. whom I IImI juinmI with him
In lqu' l'ngmznnvv of my part. wrrr Imlll III-ml; Hun. Imwrvvr. In:
Iw'ivu-II I wnn'nI Imn' .'l wry gmuI :u'cnunl. HI'IIu' imprnvvnu'nl of
IIu- pInnIalinn; I'ur IImI nlmn lIn' grm'rnl In'IirI' ul' my III-ingt-nst
away and III'U\\'II1'1I. my Irusim's InnI gII'I'II In 1va :n'mmnl. or Ilw m).
(Inn: 01' my Inn"! of "In pInulnlinn In IIn' prm'nrnlnr-fisvul. WIMHHHI
:ipprupriuIHI il, in vusv I Inw'rr ('HHII' In I'IIIIIII il. Olw-IIIII'II In IIN'.
ki :5. and I\\'n-IIIII'(I\' In IIw munuslvry of SI, [\ngnslinr, In Ich-
wmImI fur lIn' Iprm-III uI' lIu- umr. and fur IIn' mm'rrsinn "film
Indians In lln' ('znllmIin l'uilh; Iml IImI il' I upr-curml, or :my mm
for mr, In (-Iuim lIu- inIn'riIuncn. iI wnnIuI In- I'I'.\II>|'I'II'. nnI)' IIIuI lIm
IIIIPI'IH'I'IIII'III, nr :nmuul prmIm-linn. III'IIIL: lII\ll'II)llI('lI In ('IIJII'II-'lIlIfl
nxvs. ('IHIIII ImI Iu' rI-sIon-II : Iml ln- :ISMII'NI nn- IImI lIu- >ll-w:n'II nf
IIn- kin-4'>> rm-vmu- I'mm Imul. :mII LIw m'm'imlurr. ur slvwnnl (II. Ilm
nmn:I.\Ivr_\',, 1qu Iann grrut. ('nrr :III uInm: IIml lIw im'umIn-III, that
I.\ In .<<nv. mv lun'lm-r. gm'v ('\'I"' 'u ImIIII'uI nor-mm uI'IIIv pru-
lIIN' *, ulr \\'III('I| lIn-_\' qul (Inly llIII\'\'(I m_\' mun-1y. I :Iska IIIIII if
hr knvw In wImI Iwigln ul' nuprm'mm'nI In- InuI In'nngzhl lIw pluma-
Imn. :nnl wleIwr In' lImnuln iI mighl In: wm'III InukinguFU-r; ur
wlwllwr. (In my gum}; lInIIn-r. I .KIIUIIIII mrrl. will: any uh>lruvliun In
my pm <<in: my Ins! I'I III in "w mnivly. III' IuIIl nu' III'I'UIIIII
nnl H'II Ixm'Ily In wlml <<II-gn-u lIn- plmnnliuu \\'.'ls' impmvml, Iml-IIIis
Iu' Iunwn Ihul my pm'Im-r w: grown vxvmeing rivh upnn IIu- I-njny-
in: Ili~' purl of iI ; :HhI IImI. Io lIn' hrs! of his rn'mmnIn'um'v, Iu- IIMI
III'JIl'lI [Inn lIu' king's IIIir-I III' my purl, wIm-II was. il swms. grunlvd
mm) In some nllwr unnumh-I'y m' "Ii-mum Imum', amounted to alum-'0

:1ADVENTttuns or nonmsos (unison. .78

two hut: 'red moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet no ssion of it. there was no question to be made all that, my
partner being: alive. to witness my title, and my name. being also en-
rolled in the. register of the eountry ; also be told me. that. the survi-
\ors of my two trust as were verv l'air honest. people, and very
wealthy : and he believed I would "in onlr have their assistance for
putting me in pos ~ssiun, but would tind u very eonsidt rable. sum of
money in their hands for my account, being; the protlne- ot' the them
while their fathers held the. trust, and before It. was given up, as
ttbore ; "'ltlt'lt, its he. remembered, was for about twelve 'nrs.

I showed myself a little eoneerned and no -asy at t.h . amount, and
inquired ol' the old eaptain how it came. to pass that. the trustees
should thus dispme of my ell'eets. \\ hen lte knew Ihnt I had made
my wt". and had made. lllttl, the Portuguese taptaiu, my universal
heii..\ ..

He told me. that was true; but. that. as there was no proofof my
being dead, he eonhl not net as ex: eutor. until some eert aeeonnt
should eonte of nty death; and, ll('>llll'5, he. was not willing to inter.
meddle with a thing so remote: that. it was true he had registered
my will. and put in his elaim; and enuhl he hare given any account.
of my being dead or aiive, he would have aeted by proen 'atiou, and
taken possession of the ingenio (so they ealled the sugar-house), and
have given his son, nbo \ how at the lira ls. orders, to do it.
" llnt," saystheold luau, " l have otle piece. ol'newsto tell you. \t'ltielt,
Ierhnps, may not. be so aeeeptable to you as the rest; and that. is,
lteliermg you were lost, and all the, world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did ol to aeeount. with me. in your name. for
six or eight. of the first y s' ptolits, whieh l reeeired." There
being at. that time great dislntrsenwnts for int-reusing: the works,
building an ingenio, and boring slaves. it. did not. amount. to near so
mueh a' alters-ants it produeetl: " llu\\'( "-r, ' ' the. old man, " I
shall give you a true neeount of what. l hare I'UCL red in all, and how
I have disposed of it."

After a ten days' further conference with this aneient friend, he
brought me an aeeount ot' the first six years' income of my planta-
tion, signed by my partner and the. merehant trustees, being always
delivered in goods, viz. tobaeeo in roll, and sugar lll ehests, besides
rum, molasses, Se. whieh is the consequence et a sugar-work ; and I
found, by this aecount, that. every year the income considerably in-
ereased -,i but. as above, the disbursements helm: large, the sum at.
first. was small '- howexer, the. old man let. me see that he was debtor
to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold. besides sixty
chests of sugar. and Iil'teen double rolls of tobneeo, whieh were lost.
in his ship; be. having: been shiuwreeked coming home, to Lisbon,
about. eleien \' hrs after my having the. place. The good man '. .u
began to eomitlain of his litislt)t'titittes, and how he luul been obliged
to make use of my money to recover lttS losses, and buy lum a share

1:)"174' AHVENTI'IH'SS UP ROBINSON CRUSH?"

  

in a nmr shi . " llnwvrrr. m_\f ultl t'rit'inl," sava hr, "you shall not.
want {I sup il in ynnr nm any - and as soon .is my sun rvtnrns. you
shall hr t'nl y Ntllhllt'tl." lipun thi>. llt' pulls nut an nhl pnui'h. and
gives Ittt' nnr lttltltlt't'tl :ttttl sixty l'm'tugal moiilurrs in mild ; amt tutu--
in}; tlu' writinga nt' hi5 titlr tn lhv ship. "'lttt'll his sun was L'tttlt' tn
lllt' llrnzils in. (ll. "'ltlt'll he was :i qnai'lrr part <<mum, and his sun
mn-thur, hv puts them both intn my hamts, t'ur :st'ttttt'lly ot' thu
rrst.

l was Inn innvh t|ltl\'t'|l with lllt' hum-sly amt kiiiilnosa nt' thi' pour
man tn hi- ahhv tu l)t'.'|r this: and rrmrmlwring \ihnl. ho. hail dom- I'nr
inr. linw hr lnul takrn mu up ttl. sm. amt hnw gem-roast ho had
Itht'tl nu- nn all ma-a.~iun.~:. and partii'nlm'ly how sinrvri- a trivial lit:
wax' nuw to nir. l i'uultl hardly refrain wrrpin" it what ltt' szinl tn
lllt'. thrrt-fnri- l aslu-tt him it" his rirt'imistaiu'us :uhnittvil him to
5 law 50 tttltt'll inunry .'ll that tiiiw. tltul it' it "until nnt Mrniti'n him'."
llr tnlil lttt' llt' t'Uttlil nut say but it might strain-n him a littlu; hut,
llt!\\'t'\l'l'. it was my nmnr' and I might. want. it innrt- thnn hr.

l'lrriy thing lltt' gunil man said was, t'ull nt :illi't'tiun. and l muhl
harilly l't'lt'fllll from tours \\'l|ll(' ln' spukv; in short. I tunk (H10
lllllttll't'tl ut' tlw muiilorrs, :inil rallml fur a pm and ink tn girv him :I
rri-ri )t. for tlu'm: thrn l rrtnriwtl him llll' rest, tilttl lttltl him if ('\'t'l'
l hail pnswssinn nt~ thr plantation l wonhl rvturn lllt' uthrr tn hnn
al\'n (as, imlrrtl. l :itti-rn'ui'tls (lltll'. mnl that as to llit' hill at sah- nl
his part in his Mill's ship. I would not. talu' it. by any in 'ans: but
that. ill \THIIIt'tl lllt' mum-y. l tunml llt' was limit-st ('nnngh tn pay
tltt'; amt it' I (llll not. lint. t'tltttt' to l't't't'th' what. ho gran: inc I'ramin
In i-xpri't. l \runlJ nc-n'r hm :t primy muri- t'i'nm him.

\\'|i(-n this was past, the UM man :I>l\('ll ttt(' if N shnnhl put. me
into tln' nn-thmt tn maki' my claim tn my >lanlatiun? l [Oltl him I
thought to 1:0 uvvrtuit Inysrll'. llt' il might do mail I plt'asrd:
lint that it' I ilal not, lltt'tC wrrr ways vimugh t0 sou-urn my right. mnl
iimm-iliati'ly In apprnpriatr thr prolits to n... it. and :is then- were
ships in tln- rirrr til Lislmn jn>t rruity tn go : ' lu lha' il llt' innilu
tttt' tilllt'l' my MZHIII' in a ttillllt' ri'gia'rr, with h a :lllltlln'll, atlirming,
npnn Uilllt. that l was :iliri', mat that l was thr sziim' prrwn wlm
tuuk up lllt' hind t'nr tlu' planting Ihr said plantation at. tint. This
living regularly :Illt'Mt'tl by n nutary, nml n pi'ni'uratiun :itlixml, tn:
tlirrittril Ittt' tn svnil it. with a It'ttrr nt' his writing, tn 3 llu't't'lltlllt. nl
hisnvqnuintuni"at thr plaor: and than prnpnsml my staying with
him tilt :in :lt't'tntllt mnuv ul'thi' t't'llltll.

Nari-r was ttvu'lltillg ttlttl't' hunuui-uhtn than the prt'ormlings npnn
this prnvnratinn; t'nr in low. than .~'l'\'l'll mmiths l rrrrit't'tl n largo
parkitt from thu snrrirm's nt my triistvrs. thv mcrrlinnts, t'ur \Illll\t7
:u'Tm-unl l u-vnt tn St':, in which \rcri' thr following particular lrtlrrs
and papers t-nclusril

First, 'l'hvri- was tln' :It'l'fllltll~('Hl'l't'lll- (it lltt'. pmilm'u of my farm
at plantatinn, frum "iv 5: ar "'ltt'll lllt'tl' filth": haul hulant'i'tl with in"ADVENTURES OI" ltOlHNat')" 01111303. 175

old Portugal captain, lining for six yours: tho halancc appeared to
bt' one thousand ono huudrod and sevoutytonr moidorcs in my
favour.

Secondly. 'l'lu'rn was the account of tour yi-ars morr, while they
lu'pt tho vlh-cts in tlu-ir hands, hol'ori'. the gororunn-ut claiuwd the
administration, as living tho ctl'vcls of a person not to he found,
whivh thry Halli-d vivil death; and tho hulauro of this amountod to
niurh-vu thousand l'onr hundrrd and forty-xix crusudocs, being
about thrvo thousand two hundrt'd and forty uioidori-s.

'l'hirdly. 'l'lnu'o was tho prior ot' Agustiuo's account, who had ro-
cvir-d the profits for about fourteen yours; but not being' to
in ouut tor what was disposed of l) the hospital, very honestly
dro u'cd hr. had right hundred am am; nty-two muidorm not.
diatrilmtod, Wlllt'll la: . <<knowlodgod to my account ; as to the king's
part that rol'uudvd nothing.

'l'hvro was a lt'l.l-t'l' of my partner's mugrutulatiug Inc atTaction-
atoly upon my hoiug alive. giving uu- an account how the 03"th: had
improved, and what. it. produt'od a yr with a iarticuhu' of tho
numlwr of squares or :u-ru-s that it (-outaiuml, how p antcd, how many
slaves thcro wore upon it, and making two and twenty crosses for
ings, told mo ho had :said so many Arr Jim-hm to thank the
l. od Virgin that, l was alive; inviting mo vorv passionately to
Count over and take possession of in own; and, in the meantime,
to gin: him orders to whom ho shoulddolirvr uiyoll'octs, if I did not.
Como myuall': coucludinn with a ln'arly trudcr of his l'ricndship, and
that of his family; and. t. me. as a pri-aitnt, srvou line lcopanlzs'
skins. which he had. it booms, root-trod from Africa. by somo other
ship ho had sent thitlu'r, and who, it. spouts, had mado a butler voy-
agt- than I. lll' amt nu: also live cheats of oxrullout- swuotliinata,
and u lltllllll't'tl plows of gold inu'olurd, not. quite so largo as moi-
dorrs. By tho same tloot, my two merchant lrustrus shippod me
om- thou>aud two huudrvd chest>> of sugar, eight. hundred rolls of
tohacro, and the rust ol the whole account. in gold.

I nught wvll say now, unload, the latter 0nd of the Job was hotter
than llu' hvgiuumg It is impossible to rxproaa tho llutloriugs of
my wry hrart. \vhrn I found all my wealth about. am; for as the
Br: .d ship.>> cum: all In th'rts, thu same ships which brought my
h-ltrrs brought. my goods: and tho oll'rcts wvro sale in the river
lwl'urc tho: lottars value to my hand. in a word, I turned pale and

WW hlck; and had not. tho old man run aml fomluzd lllt' a cordial. I
whore tho suddvn surprise of joy had orcrsvt nature. and I had died
upon tho spot. . nay after that. l coutinuud vcry Ill, and was 30 some
hours. H" a physician bring srut for. and something of the real cause
of my illurss living known, he ordered um to he let blood: after
\\'l|l('.ll I had rcliol and grow well; but I verily littlicl't" il~ [ had not
Dt'l'll <<mad hy vent. given in that manner to the spirits, I should
huvr died.176 Am

 

'l'lfllFS "I" llOIHNsIIN ('IKI'RI)E.

l was '.'T\\' IIIHSll'I'. :21] ul' :1 smhh'n. nf uhm'v I'n'v Ihnnsnnul pounds
.KlI'l'liIIg m munry. and hail :m I'.\l:lll', :Is I mighl. no" will It, in Ihn
lirn' 'ls, nI' :Ilnn'r :I Ih-msnml pnnnik :l 'wnr. n.>> snru- as :In vslulv nf
hnnls in I'anluml ; and. Ill :1 nun-cl. I "n:- In a vnmlilinn whirl: l SI'HI'I'C
km'w hmv In muh'rsmml. ni' huw In I-nmpnsu InyH-ll' l'nl' Ihu vnjny-
nu'nl nl'iI. 'I'hv first Ihing l (llll was In rrcnmlwnsv my original
ln-m-l'm-Inr. my mind nhl I'll'llillll, whn hml hm'n lirsI. ('lnn'ilnhh- In mo.
in my ilistrrsx', hind In IIII' III my ln'gilnning; uml hnm'. . In mu .'ll Ihn
0nd I shnm'tl him all Ihni was M'lll In nu". l Inhl him. IImI "erI
In Ihc [mn'iih'nm- nl. hmwn, which IiISI'U 'Il all Ihings. ll was "wing
In him; :nnl Iqu it nnn' lny nn 1111' In H .ml him. whirl) I would (in
n lmnih'vnl-l'u l: sn 1 Iir>L n'lnrnvd I'..-' hmnh'ml Inniilnrl's. l hml ru-
('nin-il nl' him; llII'II l srnI. l'nr :\ nnI:n'y. :zml runswl him In draw up
n gvnvrnl rvh-zlsv nr lll>('lllll'SSIC from Ilu- l'nnr humlml :IIIIl svvvnly
IIIUlIlUl'I'S, whivh ln' hml :u-knnn-h-(igml hr nnml lln'. in Ilu' I'ullrsI nml
firmvsI munnrr pusaiihhz Alivr \\'l|lI'lI l mum-(l :l lu'm'nmIinn In In:
(ll'nwn, vnllum'vnng him In M my n-rrivm' nl' Iln' :mnunl prnliIs
nl' my phnilleinn~ :nul :ImminIinf: my pm'lm'r In :u-I'nnnl \\'iIh him,
and mnlu- Ilu' rrIm'm h_\' Ilu- nrzuul Ihrts In him in my mum : xnul :l
('lzmsi' in Ilwvml, lwingn grunl Ol' nlu' hundred muhlnrr~ n yvnrln him
(luring: his Iii}, on! nl' Ilu' vlic Is, mnl filly nminlnrra a yvxu' In his sun
al'h'l' him. I'm'hin lil'i'; mnl Ihns l ri'qnilml my nhl mun.

llnving' :Ilml my :ill'un' suhl my run. aml llll'hI'Il all my Oll'm'l.'
imu gnud hills of I'XI'lI:lII;:(', my um clEIlirnlIv was, whivh way In
'0 In linglnml; l hml hvvn .'l('('ll~lI)lIII'Il I'l|l)ll:_:ll In Ilu' son, and you

luul n >I'rnngt' :\\'<'I\iun In go In Iii 'lmnl h_\' Sm Ill IhnI. Iilnc- nml
lhnugh I I'lIIllll giw nn I'I'HMIN l'nr ll,)'l'l llM' IlllllI'llliy ini'ri'nsml
Ilpnn IIII' so min-h. Ihzil lhnugh I had nlwc shimml my hnggngi', in
m'ih-r 10 g_:n, _\"('l. l :lllI'I'I'Il my miml. :nul IhnI nnI. <<nu-v, lml Iwu nr
Ihwv Iinws.

Ilm'ing th-n Ihnx hnrzusx'ml in my Ihnnghls. my nhl pilnl, In whnnl
l itnmnnmimII-il m'rr)' Ihing. prI-sm-Il mr I'nrm-slly nnI. In g0 by sub,
lmI cilhm' Ingn hy lulul In Iln'. (h'nym' ((annnnn). nml ('rnss nwr
Ihv Ilny nf lliamy In llni-hvllv. l'rmn \I'llI'III'I' iI' W: s hnli III! I". 5y nnd
snli' jnnrm'y h)' lnml In Paris. and SH In I':Il:lis nml lhn'i'r, nr In go
up In Madrid. and sn :Ill (hr. \\':x_\' hy Inml Iln'ungh Frinu'n in u
"nnl. 1 \mx so pn'pnssvssx-Il :Igniml my gum}; by 5'" :il nll, ('XI'I'NI
lrnm ('nliux In llm'rr. Hm I wsnlwd In "MM :1" lhv way by himl;
whn'h, ax l \\ s not in lmslv, and did nnI vnlnn Ihc i'llurgv, w ' hy
mm'h i.ll(' pl " lIlI'l' way : :Iml In mnlu' iI more 'n, my nhl ('npluin
hrnnghl :In I \glish gvnlh-mnn, Ihr mn nI' n mvri'hzml in Lisbon,
\\'lu) was Willing In Irnw-l \viIh mo; tlrlt'l' "hivh we lill'lu'tl up Inn
"1011' English Im'n'hunls ulsn :nnl I\\'n young l'm'lugnv'i' gi'nIlmm'n,
Ilw lnsI going in Paris only : so [lull in all lln-ri- \wrv . . nl HS, and
liu- su v:ml\- ; Ivhz' hm mvu-hnnls :nul lhc two l'm'lngm-m- mnlrnlin,'
tln-msolvrs \viIh nno sm'vznn lwhwvn him. In snvi- Ilu: ('lnu'gm null
us for Inc, 1 gm. an English sailor Io travel n'ilh um: as a servant,.\l\\'FN1'IIllER or auntss'm causes. 17'?

besides my man |" rid y. who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the pl: of a servant. on the road.

In this manner I set. out. from Lisbon; and our com any being
very well mounted aml armed, We made a little troop, w icreof the
did me Llle. honour to call me captain, as well because I was the 0HK
eat. man, as beeanse 1 had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the. whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land 'nurnal; but some adventures
that. happened to us in this tedious tlllll' dillieult journey I must not
Omit.

W hen we eame to Madrid, we being all nt' us strangers to Spain,
Were willing to stay some. time to see the Court of Spain, and to see
what. was worth observing; but. it. being the. latter part of the sutu-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid a mat the middle
ot'tletober; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at. seve 'al towns on the way, with an aeeount that so much
snow was fallen on the Fraieh side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come bark to l'aiupeluua, after having
attempted, at. an extreme hazard, to )ass on.

When we eame to 'ampeluua hat-it", we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that. had always been used to a hot climate, and to countries
where l eoulil searee hear any clothes on, the cold was insull'erable;
nor, indeed, was it more strange. than surprising, to ceme but ten
days before out. of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, mul immediately to feel a wind from the l'yreuean
mountains, so rrrv keen. so severely cold, as to be intolerable,
and to endanger the. beuumbiug aml perishiug of our fingers and
toes.

\Vt 'ved no less than twenty days at l'innpeluua; when seeing
the waiter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it

'as the severest. winter all over Europe that. had been known in the
memory of man, 1 proposed that. We should all go away to Fonta-
rabia and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a Very little
voyage. llut. while 1 was considering this, there came in tour
French gentlemen, who having- been stopped on the French side of
the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
incouuuoded with the snow ; for where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their
horses. We sent. for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same wa with no h izard from the snow, provided we
Wt 'c armed sutllcieul y to protee? ourselves from wild beasts, for, he
said. upon these great snows it was frequent. for some wolves to
Illow themselves at. the foot. of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him

I178 mmx'i-ruics or RUMNSON meson.

we were. Well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if ho
would ensure us from a Lind of two legged wolves, whieh. we were
told we were in most. danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains, llesali>lied us that. there was no danger of that.
kind in the way we were. to go ; so we r 'adily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen. with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
were obliged to come hack again.

Accordingly, we set out from l'mnpeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed. I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he come directly hook with us on the same road am
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed two
rivers, and come, into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate, again, where. the counter was )lcasant,and no snow to
be seen; hill- on a sudden turning to his eft, h: up H'Oilfllltftl the
mountains another way: and though it is true, the. hills and preri-
piees looked dreadful, 'ret he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us hy such ""llttllll. ways, that we insenaihly passed the.
height of the mountains witiout bring,r much ineuuilu-red with the.
snow; and. all on a sudden, he showed us the deasnnt fruitful pro-
vinces of Lnngucdoc and (laseonv, all grccn and flourishing, though,
indeed, at, a great. distance, and we had some rough way to pass
still.

We were n'littlc uneasy, however, when we. found it. snowed one
whole day and a night so fast, that- we could not travel ; hut he hid
us no easy ; we should soon he past; it all: we found, indeed, that. we
hegan to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH A BEAR--ROBINSON AKD "IS FELLOW
TRAVELLERS ATTACKED BY A FLOUR I)? WOLVES--Ills ARRANGE-
MENT UP 1118 APFAJRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETURN IO
ENGLAND.

IT was about two hours before night, when our uide being some
thing before us, and not Just in sight, out rnslleg three monstrous
Wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, ad'eining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves made at. the guide, and had he been
for before us, he would have been devoured before we could have
hel tell him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tae *ed the man with that violence, that he had not time, or presence
of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us
most luslily. My man Friday being: next me, I bade him ride up,
and see who: was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, "0 master! Omaster!"
but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the Wolf, that attacked him, in the head.

It. is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
dillieult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the ease, and how Friday had disengu red the
poor guide, though we did not presently discern what ind of
creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fieht man <<red so hardily, and in such a surprisin
manner, as that which followgil, between Friday and the bong, whic

x180 Atari-:mntms or nonmson (BRUSHE.

gavr as all, though at first. \\'t' \rrrv surprised and afraid for him, tint
.13 .~t (ll\|'t'.\ittll imaginahlv. i\:'. the hvar is a hravy, clumsy (:rrzt-
lurr. and liars nut gallnp an the wolf (loos, who is will and light, 50
he has twu lt:ll'li('lll:tl' ([uaiilivs, \Vlllt'll gvnt' 'ally nrc thr' rule of his
actions; tirst. as, In turn. who art- not. his prutuzr pray (he ilm's nut
usuallv attempt thcnt. rxcrpl. lhry first, attack hmt, nnh'ss In: he
('Xt' <sivv|y hungry, whirh it. is nruhahh'. might now he tho raw. the
ground living: mwt-rrtl with snnw), if you (It) not. tnmhllc With him, In:
will not meddle with you; httl. lhrn you must. take 0. '(', to ho. \'rry
('l\'ll to him, and give him thn l't):|(l, fur he is a \'('t'_\' nir't', gt'utlrman;
ho will not go a strp nut at his way fur a minor, nay. if you an:
rvally afraid. your ill-hi: way is to Ionic :tlt()ll" '\\'{l.\ . atnl lu'rp going
on; for suntctitncs it' you stop, and stand still, aml look steadfastly

 

   

 

 

 

at him. he takr's it. far an all'rnnl . hut il' )1)" throw nr toss anything
at him and it hit); him, though it n-rrn hat a hit of st-i k as big as
your lingrr, hit thinl's ltitnsrll' alumni. and arts all utthrr hnsinrss
asitlu- to pnrstn' hix' rot'rngv, and will hau- szttislitrliun in point of
hunuur: - this is his lirsl quality: tln- "('Xl is. if hi: henna:all'mntrtl.
ho nill Il('\'('l' lrau- yun night. nnr (lav, till he has lllh t'rt'rngv, hnl-
fttll()'.\'.\, at a guml I'Ullllti t'atn, till he m't'rtalu's vmt.

My titan Friday hail tlt'lth't't'll nur guith', anti whrn "1301""? up In
him. his was hrlping him all l'rum his hursc. fur the mail \'as both
hurt and frightvnml. whrn, an .1 Mtltlvtt. \w- spirtl thc hrar ('untrmtl
of thv wand and a rust. nmnxtmm unu it \\"l\' 1hr higgt-st hv far
that. l'\'('|' 1 1w. \l't- wvru all a litth' snrpr ril when n :Lw hint a
nut when Fl'lllfl)' saw him. it was " " tn. joy am] (-unragr itt tln'
fullnw'scmuttrnam-t-z " t ). t). ( t! .t ya l-'ritlay, thrvv tinu's, pointing
to him ; "(J In. 'tct'! _\'t>tt giro. in lL' lravr, inc shakvc tr. hand with
hint; mu ntalu-v tun 'L'nml laugh."

1 was blll'pl'iscd to are the fellow so well pleased: " You fool,"
says 1, "he will eat you up."---" Entee me up! catce me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me came him up, me malice you good
laugh; 'ou.all stay bore, me show you good laugh." 80 down he-
sits, and ets oll' his boots in a moment, and iuts on a pair of pun
(as we on I the tint. shoes they wear, and whie I he had in his ocke .
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun, away no tlew,
swift. like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with no-
bod , till Friday coming pretty n-war, eulla to him, as if the bear
eon ll understand him : "Hark ye, hark ye." says Friday. " me spl'nkee
with you." We followed at a distal cc; for now being come down on
the (iasrony side of the mountains, we were entered a vast grout
forest, "la-re the country was plain and pretty open, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. Friday. who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quieldy, and takes no
a great ston rand throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
did him no more harm than if he had thrown it a inst a wall; but
it. :lllMW'l't'tl Friday's end. for the rogue was so vol of fear, that he
did it pun-ly to make the bear follow him, and show as some but 'h
as he called It. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him. 0
turns about, and comes after him, hiking long strides. and shuflling
on at a strange rate. such as would put a horse to a middling gallop;
away runs Friday, and takes his course as il' he ran towards us for
help; so we all resolved to tire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear
bark upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially 1 was angry that. he had turned the bear upon
us, and then ran away; and 1 called out: " You dog, is this your
making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we may
shoot. the creature." lle heard me, and cried out: " No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get. much laugh;" and as the nimble
creature ran two feet for the heal"; (me, he tamed on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oakotree lit for his purpose, he
beckoned to us to follow ; and doubling his par-e, he gels uimbly up
the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to the tree.
and we followed at a distance: the lirst thing he did, he sto melt at
the gun, smelt it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into tic tree,
climbing like a cat. thnnch so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
fully, as l thought it, at my man. aml eould not. for my life see an -
thin; to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all ror 0
near to him.

\\ two we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end
of a large branch, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon
as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker, ~ " lla ! " says in: to us, " now you see me teachee the hear
dance ;" so he falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the

it}
hear began in lollm', hnl stnod slill, and hogan in look ln'lliud him.
10 $90 lam' ln- should gull hack; lhvn. inch-ml. u'u dnl laugh lu-arlily.
But Friday had not. dune wilh him by a grral, d'al; \vln'n maxi;
him stand slill, in: calls out. In llllll again, as if law had suppusvd lilu:
ln-ar could sprak l'Ing'lish : " "hat, you count no farther? pra vnu
main l'arIln-r; " so lu'. lvl't jinn iing and shaking the iron: and it he
lwar. inst as if he undvrsluml \\' ud lu' said, did cnlu ' a lilili' farther;
Him in: fall a. jumping again. and "w huar sloppvd again. We
llmuuhl. now \\'a~'. a gmid lilm' m kmwk him on llur lwad. and called
in Friday in sland xlill, and "'0 would :<<Iuiol. lhv hvzu': hnL ln- ('rivd
out. carucslly : " 0 pray I () pray ! in) shunt, nu: shunt hy and than ;"

 

ho would have said by and hy. llnwm'm', to shorlvu the story,
Friday danvvd Kl) nnu'h. and ilk" h an sluud so lir-klish, ihal. we had
laughing (-nungh, lml slill would nul. imagine what. the follow would
(in: fur lirsl. \n- Ihnuuhl hr dupvndvd upun shaking the hear all; and
"'0. found [hat "in hear mm Im) running for that tho; for he nould
nut go um l'ar i-nuugli 1.0 hi: lln'nun dawn, hut clings fast, with his
grrai ln'uad ('la\\'.\' and li'vl. sn Illal. we ('nuld mil. mitigim'. \Vllillv
"mild he the and of ii. and \i'hai Ilu' val \muld he at last. lint.
Friday puts us nut of donhl qinck' '. fur wring the. limit cling final. to
the bough, and that. he would not. hr pvrsumlml l0 conic any further :
" Well, Well," says Friday, "you no come farther, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you:" and upon this, he goes out to the
smaller end of the hongh, where it would hood with his wei ht, and
gently leis himself down by it. sliding down the heugh, till 10 come
near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun,
takes it u ), and stands still. " Well," said I to him. " Friday, What
will you r o now P Why don't you shoot him ?"_--" No shoot," says
l-'riday, " not yet; me no shoot now, mono kill; me stay, give you
one more laugh ;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently ;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from the
bough where he stood, but did it might cautiously, lookin behind
him every step, and coming backward tilihe got into the ho y of the
true; then with the same hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree,
puts-ping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, ver
risurely. At this 'uncture, and just before he could set his hindy-
foot on the groom , Friday stepped up close to him, cla ml the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him (lend. "ten the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased, by our looks, he falls 11 laughin" himself very loud.
" So we kill b 'ar in my country," says Friday. ' So you kill them ?
says 1, " why you have no guns." "No," says he, " no gun, but
shoot great uuleh long arrow." This wasa good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run much in my
head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any-
thing that filled me with so much horror.

'l'hese things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else. as
Friday would have had us, we should certainl have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature ofl', which was wort I saving; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him,
and went forward on our journey.

We were not gone half over the plain, when we began to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
us, all in a body, am! most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by an experienced ofliccr. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the
only way ; so we formed in a. moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only over other man should
tire, and that the others who had not tired shoe (1 stand ready to give
them a second volle immediatel , if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that tiose who ha fired at first should not pretend to
loud their fuses again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for
we were all armed with a fuse and a pair of pistols etch man; so we
Were, by this method, able to fire six volleys, hall' of us at a limo,
llowerer, at present we had no necessity, for upon firing the first
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the. live; four of them. being shot. in the head, dro I ed;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding all, us we could, see
by the snow. I found they stop )cd. but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that had been told that the fiercest crea-
tures were terrified by the voice. of a luau, I caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could: and I found the notion not. altogether
mistaken; for upon our shout, they began to retire and turn about.
l then ordered a second volley to be tired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. 'I'his gave us
leisure to charge our pieees again -, and that we might lose no time,
we kept. going; we had but little more than loaded our fuses, and
put. ourselves in It' tiness. when we heard a terrible noise in the
same wood, on our left, only that it was farther onward, the same
way we were. to go.

The night. was coming on. and the. light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing. we, could easily
perceive that, it was the howling-and yelling of these hellish creatures;
and on a sudden we perceived twr~ or three troops of wolves, one on
our left, one behind us. and one in our front, so that. we seemed to
be surrounded with them, however, as they did not. fall upon us, we
kept. our way forward. as fast. as we could make our horses go, which,
the way beinf,r very rough. was only atrood hard trot. In this manner
we came in view of the. entrance ol the wood, through which we
were to ass, at. the farther side of the plain; but u e were greatly
Sllrpl'lSt't , when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a eonfused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. ()n a sudden, at.
another opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking
that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on him, ll_vin~
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolv after him full spear .

But here. we had a most horrible sight. ; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the. eareasscs of another
horse and of two men, devours-d by the 'avrnous creatures ; and one of
the men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun. for
there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head
and the nnper )art of his body were eaten up. This filled us with
horror, and we now not what. course to take; but. the. creatures re-
solved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of
way; and 1 verily believe there were three llulllll'ttl of them. 7t.
iappened very much to our advantage, that. at the entrance into the
wood, but. a little way from it. there. lay some large. timber trees,
which had been out down the. summer before. and I suppose lay there
for carriage. I drew my little. troop in among those trees, and
plaeing ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all
to alight, and keeping I hat. tree before us for a breast work. to stand III a
triangle or three fronts enclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well we. did; for never was a more furious charge
titan the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on will;
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
1 said, was our breastworlr, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as be
fore, every other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they
killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
iii-"essity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.

\-\'hen we had fired a second Volley of our fuses, we thought they
stopped a little; and I hoped they would have gone off ; but it was
on: a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two
vol eys of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. 1 was loth to spend our shot too hastily ; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the grealest dexterity imaginable, he had char ed my fuse
and his own while we were engaged; but as lsnid, I eafied my other
man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a trainddl
along the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and had but just time to get. away, when the wolves came up to it,
and some got. upon it, when I, snap )ing an uncharged pistol close to
the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we despatchcd these
in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew hack a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired oil' in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found strangling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our swurds, wbic ! answered our expectation; for the
crying and bowling they made was better understood by their fellows;
so that they all fled and left. us.

1 dln about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
o e.

'lg'he next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no fur-
ther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful leasant countr ,
and no snow, no wolves, nor anything like them ; ut when we to d
our story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what was
culinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, es eeially
when the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired mue what
kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season ; and told us it was surprising we were out

all devoured.
US.186 11111151111125 111? 11111111151111 cnIIsnn.

1 1111\'1' 1111111111: 11111'1111111111111111.11.1' 111111011 111 III 1111' 111155113311 11Ir1'1II-rh
1'1311111' 1111111111: 11111 1111' 11 1111111 11111111115 11:11'1' 1.;111'111111.111'1111111 111'.
\1'1111111111'11111111'1'1111\':1111.I_1:1' 1111111 I 1':III.1 11':1\"'111111 11'11111 "111111111151-
111 |':I1'1.5' 111111 \1111111111 11111 1111151111'1'111111' .5'111y '111111' 111 ('1111115'. 111111
1111111115111111' :11 1111\"',11 1111'. 11111 111111111111113'. 11111'1 11111111341151 1'1'1'1'1'11111
.51 .151111 111 11'111'1'1 III.

1 \\':15 111-11' 1'111111' 111 1111' 1'1'11111' 111' my 11'111'1'15. 111111 111111 111 11 111111'
111111' 1111 1111' II1\\' 111.51'111'1"'I111 1'511111' 5511' 111111111 1111': 1110111115111
1'\1' 11511211 WM 1 11111112111 111.11 1111 111111111: 111'1'11 I1'I'\' 11'1111' '11111' 1111111.

1\1\ 111'1111'111111 "111111' 111111 111'11'1' 1'11111151'11111' \11115' 111 1.:111111 1'1111'11'111
\1'1111111' -. 11111). 111 1,:1'1111111111' 1111'1111'11111111'y 1 111111 50111 11'111111111g111 I111
1.111151111111111111. 11111'1'111'1- 11111~.:I'.'.1'11 1111'111111111' 1111 1111' 1 1111111 1111.511'11
1111' 51111'11111'lv \I'111111'1"1\'111111'-..'.111111 l was '11-111'1111'1"'\'11.5' 111 1111'.
.5'1'1'111'111'111 111v 1'111'1'15': 111111 111111'1'11 l \1'115' \1'1\ 111111111 1111111 1111' 111'-
1:111:11111", :11111111111'1111111'11111.1111111' 11115111111111 Il|1("'..'|'11\ 111' 1111.5 1.:111111

[:1'111111111111".

1 1111\\' 1"1'5111\111' .11 1115111150 111 1|I_\' 111:1"1: 1111111 111 1111' "111'/115.11 1
01111111 111111 1111'. 'I11.5 1'111 11115 11111'111151' I "1'1-11' In II1_\'11111 II'I1'1111 .11.
115111111\1'111111:11'111-111111'1'11111 111 1111' ["11 III1' 1'1'111'11115. 1111' 5111\'1\'11I.5 11f
1111'11'11511'1'5 111111 111'111 III 1111' 111111.115. 1111\' 111'-'111111'11 1111' 1111"'1I. 111111
1'11111111'11 1111111 1111'1'1" 1111112131111 1111'1'1'5' 111 1'1_1_.v111 111111'111'11' 111111111111 111
11111115 :11 1.151111II.111 11111'1111' 11 11511111.: 51:111'11 1111-1115'1'111111111 111
5:111'.:III11.5'1111 11 1111111111 11'111111.111' 1'1'1111111'11 1111' 11111.5- 111'1'\1'11IIII;:1'
1111 11111'11'1111-111.1115'111111'11111 111111111111 l111~11'5111'11;;'11l 1111'1111'151.111'.
I'1".511"\ 1151' 1111>> 1121\1111111 .11 1'111111111111 11111111111'1'5' 11 1'1111'111 111115141
111111111: 111.5 1111' :11111 I111\ 1111111111115 111"'11III.II'11.5' 111 111.5' 51111 1111 1111',
\11111'11 1 111111 '11'11111151'111111'111.

'11111111:11 I 111111 5111.1 1111'1'51.1l1' 111 1111' 111'1'11115' _\'1'1 1 1'1111111 11111 1101111
1111'1"1IIIIIII\'11111 111 111\ 11121.1: II1II'1'1111111 11'1'5151 1111' 51111113: 1111' 111111111111
1 11111111511'1111'151'111'11 \1'1'11'111' 11'11'1111. 1111' \1'1111111'. 1'111'1115111' 111.5-
511 111. 11 1111' 11111111 11111 5111111 111'11'11111'11 \I 1111 1111-.111111.1'111'111111-151
.511'1'11 _\1':I1'.5', 5111-1111-11'11'1'11 III_\' I'IIIIIIIII::11111111111' . 11111111: 11111011 111111' 1
1111111 III_\ 111'11111111111151111' 1'1'111111"1II 111 11111' 111 I11_\' 111.111111'15 111111111_\'
1'111'1' ' 1111' 1'.111'51 111-11' 111;: 51111111111111.1'111 1115' 11" 11 1 111'1'11 111111511 1._"'1 '11111' -
1111111. 111111 1.:111'1' 111111 :1 .51'1111'1111111 111 .5111111'1111111111111 111 1115 1'51: 111'. 11111' r
111_\ 11m 1111' 111111"I 1 11111 11111 111 1101111111111 111' 11 511111: 111111 111'11'r
111'1' .\ ..1111111111_' 111111 :1 5.- 415111111. 1111111.11111111115111" 11111111; 111111111
11111 111111 11110111511111 51111 111111 51' 111 111111 1.11 5'1'11:' 111111 11115' 11111111: 111111111
111'111'1111'115111'111' 1111-111.'11l11.15l 1111.5. 1111"'1111111I 11'1111111'1'5111151'11

1111111'1111.II1111111' l 111 [1:111 51"111111 111\.5'1'11 111'1'1': 1'111'1115'1 111 11111.
1 1II:I1"11111. 111111 111.11 11111 1'11111'1' 111111) 111.5'1'111\'111I111;:1' 111'11253111151111'111111
111111 111111 1111'1'1' 1'1111111'1'11. [1111 51111.5 :1111111111' 1111115411101" . 11111 1113'11111'
1111119; 111111 111111111111" 1'111111111; 11111110 \\'1111 13111111 .5111"11'5.5' 1'1'11111 :1
\'1. m1 111 51111311, 1111' 1111'111111111111 111 3:11 11111'111111 1111111115 11111111111111in
11r1\"111111. 111111 1'1 1'111 1111 111111111 1115' 511111 :1.5' a [11'11'111'11'11111'1'10

1111' 1111.51. 1111111'5': [1115' 11115 111 1111' .war 1119-1Sl'It'TIUN XXX.

Ill-T lS SlllZl-Ill WITH A lil-'slllli 'I'fl IlHYlSlT Ills ISI..-\'.\'D'- LOSER "IR
\l'lFl'l I.' 'I'l'2.\ll"l'l'Ill 'I'U (in 'l'() SEA Ati.'th""l'.\l\l'Is OUT A (ZAllht)
FUR lllfi COLONY.

"'nrN my "'er was gnnv. tho \mrhl lnukml mvkn'nrtlly rnnnd nu'. l
was n3 mm'h n stmugx-r in min my thnughts. us 1 \ms in thv Brnzils.
whvn I first \n-nl an slum- lhi-rv; nml as much nlunu. vxm-pl. as In
"W llShIslulll't' ot'm-rvnnts. us I was in my island. I hm-w neither
what. In think nur what. to (In. I saw tlu- \mrld hnsy nrnnml mu:
nnv purl hihunring l'nr hrvnd. mmthvr part squmnh-ring in vih'. 0.x-
n-sm-s or mnptv ph-nsnrih. vqunluy mism'uhlv. hm-nnsn llu- 0nd tln-y
prnpm'vd >lill tlml trmn than): fur llu' nwn of plmsnm vvvry dny
snrthtud ul' ilmr \'iv; and hmpml up \mrk fur surmw and l'('|)('.lllv~
:um'; and thv nwn of lulmnr sin-m I'In'ir xtrvngth in daily struggling
for huml in nunntnin llw clzlily slrvnglh Hwy lahuln'cd with ; so living
Ill 11 ilznly ('n'onlnlmn ul sm'run', living but in with. nml \vnrking but
to ll\'(', us it. daily lll'l'flll \n'rv thv unl)' Hui of wnnrisulnn Mn, and ::
"railsnnw hl'v this (mlv m . .'ilm uf lhlily hr 'ml.

'l'lns put Inc in nnnd ut' lhv lit'v l hwd in my hingihnn, the island,
whm'c l snllm'ml nu nmru (-urn tu grow, llt't'fllISt'. I did not. want It.
and bl't'll nu nmrv gums. hm'unsv I hml nu Inuru use t'ur Ihvin; wln'w
thv mom-\- lnv in lhv (h'nn'vr till it grow nmnhly, :nnl hml mum-v tlw
l'm'uur In [in hmkml upon in twonly )'vnrs.

My my (-mnm'lhn' \'ns gmu'; l was liku n ship Within]! a pilut,
Ihnl could only run lu-t'nrv the wind; my tlmnghls ruunh away again
into llll' old :ill'zur, my hmil was quite turned with the whiinaics ul
foreign adventures: and all the. pleasant, innocent. amusements of
my farm, my garden, my cattle. aml my family. which before entirely
possessed me. were nothing to me. Ind no relish. nml were like
musie to one that has no car, or food to one that has no taste; in a
word. I reaolved to leave ofl' housekeeping. let. my farm, and return
to lioudou ; and in a few months after i did so.

When 1 came, to London, 1 was still as unenly M I was before;
i had an relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but.
to wonder about. like. an idle person, of whom it. may he said he in
perfectly useless in God's erentiou, and it is not one furthing'a matter
to the real. of his kind whether he be. dead or alive. This also was
the. thing which. of all eireumstnuees of life. was the most. my aver-
sion. who had been all my days used to an net-ire life; and i would
often say to myself: " A state of idleness is the very drega of life;
and indeed l thought l was mueh more suitably employed when l
mu twenty-nix days making me a deal board."

it was now the beginning of the. year 1693, when my nephew,
whom. as l have observed before. I had brought up to the sea. and
had made him mniunamler of a ship, was eome home from a short.
voyage to llilboa. being- the first he had made. llo none to me. and
told me that some. merehanta of his aet naiutanee had been proptis-
lug to him to go a voyage to the East Indies and to (ihiua. as pri-
vate traders. " And now. nuele." says be. "if von will go to so;
with me, i will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the
island, for we are to toueh at. the llrazila.

'l'he aeheme hit. an exactly with my tem tor, that. is to say. the

repossession l was under, aud of which I lave said so much. that
littdd him. in a few words. if he agreed with the merchants I
would go with him: but I told him i would not promise to go any
further than my own inland. " \l'llv. air." aays be. "you don't
want to be left there again. I hope?" " Why," said I, "eun you
not. take me up again on your return? " He told me. it would not
he possible to do so: that the merchants would never allow him to
come. that way with a laden ship of each value. it. being a month's
sail out. of his w v and might be three or four. " Besides. air,
If 1 should mis ," said he, " and not. return at all, then you
would he. just redueed to the condition you were. in before."

This nae very rational; but we both found out. a remedy for it:
wlueh wax to entry a framed sloop on board the ship, which being
taken in pieees, and shipped on board the ship, mi it. by the. help
of some earpeuters. whom we agreed to carry \vitl us, be set up
again in the island. and finished, lit. to go to sea. in a few days. -

l was not. long: resolving; for. indeed. the nupm'tululirs of my
nephew joined an ell'eelually with my im-liualtou. that nothing eould
oppose me: on the other hand, my \er being dead. l bud nobody
mneeruiug themselves so Imtell for tltt' as to persuade me to one
an) or the other, except my ancient good friend the water: who
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and above all,
my onug children. But it was all to an impasse; I had an irre-
sisti ile. desire to the voyage; andI told her I thought there was
something an uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for
the. voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attem t to stay at home; after which she ceased hcr expos-
lalations. am joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage. but also in settling my fmnil affairs for my absence, and
providing for the education of my ehih ren.

In order to llns, 1 made my will, nlul settled the estate I had in
sueh a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that .l was
perfectly easy and satislled they would hare justice done them,
whatever might lit-fall me; and for their education, 1 left it wholly
to the widow. with a salheieat maintenance to herself for her care:
all which she richly deserved. for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and as she lived till
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

M y nephew was ready to sail about. the beginning of January
16!! t5, and l. with my man Friday, went on board in tho Downs on
the tilh; lmviu , besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a
very eonsulerabe cargo of all kinds of necessary things for my
colony, which, if I did not find in good eondition, I resolved to
leave so.

Contrary winds first put. us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway in lrelaud. where we lay wind-bound
two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exeecding cheapmnd in the utmost plenty;
so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but
rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and
two cows, with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good pas-
s: c, to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose
ot icrwise of them.
ROBINSON'S SHIP BELIEYLN 'l'lll". ("HEW ()P A FRENCH VESSEL TIM?
llAl) CAUhll'l' FIRE.

We set out on the. 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I renwmber, it might. be about.
the Bttth of February, in the evening late. when the mate, having: the
watch. came into the ronml'honse, and told as he " v a flash of tire.
and heard a gun tired ; and while he was telling: us of it, a box came
in, and told as the, huatmrain 'a'aul number. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we litard nothing;
but in a few urinates we saw a very great light. and found that there
was some very terrible lire. at a distant-e; immediately we hwl
l'eeonrse to our reekonings. in whieh w ' all agreed that there could
be no land that \'a_\' in whieh the tire showed itself, no, not for tire
hundred leagues, for it a npeared at \\".N. W. Upon this we eon.
eluded it. must. be some ship on lit". at sea; and as, by our hearing
the noise. of guns just before, we concluded that it could not be far
off. we stood direetly towards it, and were presently satisfied we
should diseorer it, because. the fart her we. sailed. the renter the
light appeared; tlmuglu the weather being hazy. we coud not per.
ceivc an_\'thin_<<.: but the light. for a while. In about hall an hour's
sailing. the wind being,r f. r' for us. though not tnneh of it, and the
weather clearing up a little. we euuld plainly diseern that it was a
great ship on lire, In the. middle of the. sea
I was most sensibly tuuehed with this disaster. then 41 not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I present y recolleeted
my forum: circumstances, and in what condition l. was in. when takm
up by the l'ortnguesc captain; and huw mneh morc de rlorahle the
('irennistmtces of the WW creatures belonging to that ship must be
if they had no other 5 tip in compan with them. Upon this. 1 im-
medial ~l_v ordered that live guns siould he fired, one soon after
another. that, if pesstble. we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand. and that they mifht endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for then h we conh see the llamas of the
shi ), yet. they, it being night, coulil see. nothing of us.
boat eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boat>>
by the help of our perspective glasses; found there were two of
them, both thron rod with people, and deep in the water. We per-
ceived the rowed, the wiml being agains: them; that tltey saw our
ship. and ( id their utmost- to make us see them.

We immediately 5 read our mmienl, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a watt out, as a signal for them to come on board
and then made more sail, standin directly to them. In little more
than half-aa-hour we came up wit t them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.

Unon the whole, we found it was a French merchant-shin of three
lnnulred_t0as, home-hound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the tire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
hat on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some. sparks of the lirst fire had
gotten into some art of the ship so dillienlt to come at, that they
eould not ell'ectna ly quench it; and afterwards getting in between
the timbers, and wrthin the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able. to exert.

Nothing of good manners, or civil aeknowledrrments for the kind-
ness shown to them was wanting; the ll'l'ttnell, it is known, are
naturally apt to exceed that; way. The captain and one of the
priests came. to me. the next day, and desired to s eak with me nml
my nephew: the commander began to consult wit 1 us what should
be done with them; and first, they told as that we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little eaongh for a return to us for that
kindness received. The captain said they had saved some money,
and some things of value, in their boots, catclied hastily out of the
flames, and it' we would accept it, they were ordered to make an
otter of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in our way, where, it possible, they might get a pass 0 to France.
M nephew was for accepting their mane at first wur , and to con-
si or what to do with them afaerwards; at I overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a stran . country:
and if the Portuguese captain that took inc up at sea ha served me
so, and took all 1 had for my deliverance, 1 must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brands as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahomctaa excepted; and perhaps a Por-
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse.

I therelore told the French captain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true, but t iat it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creaturcs; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
Were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but. that we took them up199 AIH'ENTIIREH or umuNsuN cuusoa. .

In smu- Ilu m, unI In pluluh'r Ihrm; and it. wnuhl he :\ most hnrhnr-
mu. Ihiug In Iulii' lImI liltlu l'ruln Ihvm \\lll('ll Ilu-y luul sun-ll on! U!
Ilu- Iirv. uiul Ilu'u m-I Ilium nu shurv and [raw lllriii: Ihul- lhizl wmilil
hl' IirsI I0 NW1! Ilu-m from (h'ulh, mul Ilu'u kill lIu-m uurvau-s;
cum- llII'III I'i'um <<lruwuiug, iuul iibiuuluu l-lIIEIn humming; mul Ilium--
[max I would not let Ilw h-usI. Iliiug hn lulu-u from llu-m. As In
m-Iling Ihvm nu shurv, l Iuhl llu-ui, huh-ml. lluiI was an u-xx-m-iliuu;
iIiIlii-ulIy In us, I'm- Ihul. llu- ahip wus huluul In Ilm 'lust liulim; xunl
llmugh wu wi-rv ih'ih-u qu. ul our emu-w In tho wualwunl :i \'vry
gri-ul wuy, zuul pvt-hum \N'I'I' diri'cIi-d hy llmm-u uu purpusr I'ur
Ihvir drliu-rmu-r, va. it was impnmihh- l'ur us \\ ilfully In vlmugi- our
vm' 'c- an lhvir pul'lirnlm' xu'muul; nor cuuhl my m'phvw. llu'
mipluiu, lll|SS\\l'l' II In Ihv frvighlvrs, "illi "limu he mm umh-r
I'luirli'rqnil'ly In pursur his \'nyugc by lllI' \my <<I' Hr: . : iuul nll l
Inn-w \n' cmlhl llU I'ur Ilu-iu. was In put nursrlws in tho \un' nf
mm-Iiug wiIh uIlu'r ships luuuvuiml huuml from "w West luiliru.
iuul gi-I Ilu'ui u pmsugv. if pnssihlv, In England ur Mum-c.

'l'lu' l'u'sl purl. "I. Ilu- prupusnl wus 5n KI'III'I'UHS mul kilul. Ihvy
('Ulllll unI lml hv wry Iluuikl'ul For it ; huI. Ilu-y wrri- in u wry gri-uI.
(-nuslvruulxuu. I'Nlu't'llllly llu' pussvugcrs. uI. llm unlinu of hri ';
viu'ximl "way In Ilu' 'Iiisl. Indies; Ilu') Ilu-u vuln-ulml nu', lluil :'I'I'lIIL:
1 "us ih'iwu so l'ul' In Ihi' "'rshnll'tl hvfm'i- l uu-I \\iIh Ihrm,l
\muhl :iI. lrzisl ht't'll uu Ilu' suuu- cmu'sv In Ihr Hunks uf Nc-wfuuuil-
laud, "hi-ri' it \run lu'ulmhlr I might lNI'I'l. \\'llll.\lllnl1 allip ur shnnp
(.lml llu'y might hirr lo curry Ilium burl. [.0 Cumulu, from "hi-um-
llu-y mum.

I thought this was but u n'usuuuluh- rvq-ivst (m llu'ir purI.. uml
thm'rl'urc l llk'lllII'Il In ugm- In it ; for, huh-ml. l mnsiih'rml. Iliul In
L'Iu'l'\' Ihis "luih' unnpnny In Ilu' l'lusl liulirs. \vuuhl nut only hr in:
iululrrnhlv :u-vvrily upuu Ilu: puur pl'uplx'. luiI. \wuhl ho ruining uur
whoh- vuyugv, hy ilci'nuriug ull uur pmvisiuus: an I IhnughI it no
bI'I'uI'll uf cluu'Ivr-pany. but what. nu uul'm'csrm uvuidvut uuulu
uhxuluIvly iu'I-i-sszu'v In us, and in whivh nu um- vmilil suv wv were
to blame: for Ihv hum of ("HR and nature would luwc I'm'hiil thul.
wv Sllulllll n'l'u. In lulu' up two bnuls' full of pcuplc in such It (lis-
Ircssnl vumlilinu; and tho uulurc of tho Ihiug. us wi-ll rrspccliug
uursvlvus u.>>- Ilu- puur 'N'Uplt', uhligcd us In m-I. Ilium on show sumo.-
whcn- ur (Illu'l' l'm' Ilu'u' drlivvrum-v -, so 1 consented that \u.- would
carry Ilwiu In Ncul'uuuulhuul, if wiml iuid \n'ulht'r would prnuil;
Ind if not, that 1 would 'urry than to meuuo. in the West
Indies.Sl'ltl'l'lth' XXX".

BELIZVES TIIE CREW OF A ltltlfl'l'ttl. Hllll', WHO ARE STARVING--
AIKIUVIEN A'l' ms ISLAND.

Tm: wind continued fresh ensterly, but. the weather otty good, and
as the winds had continued in the points between gilt}. and 8.19. a
long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we. met several ships hound to Europe, whereof two
were From-h, from St. Christopher's; but they had heen so long
heating up against the wind, that they durst tnke in no passen era,
for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for t cm-
selves us for those. that the should take in ; so we. were obliged to
0 on. It. was :lllOllL a weed after this that. we made the Banks of
ewfonndiand: where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on honrd a harque, whit-h they hired at sea there. to put them
on shore, mul aftm-wmds to carry them to France. if they could get
provisions to viotnnl tln-mselves with. When 1 say all the French
went on shore. I should remember that a yonnw priest on board,
henring we wore bound to the East Indies, desired to go the vo age
will! us, and to he. set on shore on the coast of Cormnandcl; w ich
l readily agreed to, for l wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen
entered themselves on our ship. and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our eonrsc to the West Indies, steering
away 8. end S. by E. for about. twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all ; when we met with another subject. for our
humanity to work upon, almost us deplorable as that before.
It mm in the latitude of twentyoeven degrees five minutes north,
on the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course
1'! 0194 onemunes or noatxsoa meson.

S E. and by S.: we soon perceived it was a large vessel. and that
she bore up to us, but could not at. first know what to make of her,
till, after coming a little nearer, we found that she had lost her main
topmasl, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she fired a gun, as
a signal of distress: the weather was retty 0d, wind at N.N.W.,
a fresh gate, and we soon came to 3 on with er.

We found her a shi) of Bristo, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been been bown out of the road at Barbadoes a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief-mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to bringr the ship home. They had been already nine weeks
at. sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to
the westward, and in which they lost. their masts, as above. they
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind
at N..'\'_\V., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work
the ship with but a mainnoursc, and a kind of square sail upon a
jury foremost, uhirb they had set at, they could not. lie near the
wind, but were omleavonriug to stan away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone:
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left
in the ship, and had none left for eleven days. The on] relief they
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had at out half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some snceades, or
swcctmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.

There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board,
who were going; passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more dc-
plorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may
be sure, for the poor passengers: and they were, indeed, in a con-
dition, that their misery is Very hard to describe.

I had perhaps not known this wart, if my enriosity had not led
me (the weather beinrY fair, and tie wind abated) to go on board
the ship. The second ,mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told am, indeed, they
had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable
condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for 1 have
heard nothing of them for above two davs; and I was afraid to
in are after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve them with."

'Ve immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare- and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
nephew, that I would have victuslled them, though we had
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to ave
supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

But now they were inanew danger ; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that httle we gave them. The mute or
commander brought six men with him in his boat; but. these poor
wretches looked liked skeletons, and were so weak, that they could
hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and hall'--
starved, for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit they ate.

1 cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat beiore him imme-
diately; and he had not eat three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and our sur eon mixed
him up smnethin with some brot , which he said woul he to him
both lood and piysic; and after he had taken it, he grew better.
In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it:
they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous,
and had no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so
mueh'grcediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning.

While I kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that. were left on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men. to carry them a sack
of bread, and four or live pieces of beef Io hoil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men takin it to
eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boils. , and
then to give every man but a very little at a time: and l) this
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have riled
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passen is were in; and if they
were alive, to comfort them, and give tiem what refreshment was
proper: and the our on gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth wliic he had given the male that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.

I was not satisfied with this; but, as I saill cove havin a great
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew .he ship itsef would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it}:
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, we.
me, and went. myself, a little after, in their boat.

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
vmtunls out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate'observed
his orders, and kept a good guard at the eoobroom door; and the
man he. plaeed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
paiienee. kept them otl' by force: however, he euused some biscuit-
eukes to he dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, whieh they called brewis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stmuat-hs, and told them it was for their own safety that,
he was obliged to give them but. :1 little at a time. But it was all
in rain; and had 1 not come on board, and their own comunrnder
and otlieers with me, and with good words, nntl some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the
enok~romu lw force. and torn the meat out of the furnace; for
wards are indeed of verysmall force to u hungry belly : however, we

 

pacified them. and fed them gradually and eautiously for the first time,
tunl the next, time gave them more, and at last. tilled their bellies,
and the men dill well enough.

But. the misery of the poor passengers in the. cabinwas of another
nature, and far beyond the. rest ; tor the ship's co upany had so little
ffil' 'llNIISl'th'S. it- was but too true that they had at first kept them
very low, and at last totally neglected them ; so that for six or seven
days it might be said they had really no food at all, and for several
days before very little. The poor mother. who, as the men reported,
was a woman of sense and end breeding, luul spared all she could
so atl'eetionately for her son, lud- at last. she entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went, she sat upon the floor or deek,
With her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed that. and her head sunk between her shoulders. like. u corpse,
though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revrve and
encourage her, and With a spoon put some broth lll'O her mouth.
She opened her tips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak;
yet she understood what. he said, and made signs to him, intimatintz
that it was too late. for her, but point ed to her-child, as it she. would
have sand they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of
the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, gm two or three spoonfuls
down; though 1 question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the some night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most ail'ectionatn
mother s life, was not so far gone : ct he lay in s cabin-bed, as on:
stretched out, with hardly any life eft in him. He had a piece of
an old glow in his mouth, having eaten up tlie rest of it: however,
lll'lllg young, and lmvihg more stren th than his mother, the mate
got something down his throat, :uidghc began sensibly to revive;
though by givnig him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls
cxIt-anrdinury, he was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the 001' maid : she lay all idong upon the
deck, hard by lnu' mistress, an just like one that had fallen down
with an ape than, and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted
one of her ands was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
gripcd it so hard, that we could not easil make her let it go: her
other arni lay over her head, and her feet lay both together, set fast
against the ironic of the cabin-table: in short, she lay just like one
in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

We knew not what to do with this poor irl; for when our
surgeon, who wasa man of very great kuowle e and ex erienee,
had with great application recovered her as to lite, he had or upon
his hands as to her senses; for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con-
sider, that visits at son are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our
business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them ; and though they were willing to steer the same course with
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a
ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to
help him to set up a main topmost, and a kind of n topmost to his
jur foremost, we did, us it were, lie b him for three or four days;
on then having given live barrels 0 beef, 8 barrel of pork, two
hogsheads ol' biscuit, and u proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some icccs of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them;
taking on srd with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their oods.

The young lad was a at seventeen years of age; sprotty, well
bred. modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a. few months
before, at Barbadoes: he bog ed of the surgeon to s oak to me to
take him out of the ship : for to said the cruel fellows ad murdered
his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passtvcly; tor

they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless
17"
widow, that mi vht have. reserved her life, though it had been but
just enough toieep her a ive : but hunger knows no flieud, no rela-
tion, no justiee, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found them in. that is to say,
starvinn in the world.' He said it mattered not whither he went, if
he washbut delivered from the terrible crew that he was among;
that. the. captain (by which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would he very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would.
The. surgeon represented the case so atl'oetiomttely to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their ads, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not he remove or come at;
and as the youth had a hill of lading for them, I made his com-
nnnnler sign a writing obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to
Bristol, to one Mr. Borers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, an to .deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow : which I
suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to
Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being in so
disabled 3 condition, and so far from any land, that. I am of opinion
the first. slorm she met with afterwards she might founder in the
sea; for she was leaky and had damage in her hold, when we met
with her.

I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first,
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &e., on the rest of our voy <<re;
but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, 5 roll
observe, that. I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of
April, 1695. It was with no small dillicully that I found the place;
for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or not.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop, which we had found
a eonvenient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will,
at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and presently
knew the very countenance of the place: so 1 hroquht the ship sale

to an anchor,~ broadside with the little creek where my old habita-
tion was.
nonrxsow AND mum eo ASHOlu-J--TIIE LA'I'TER items wu'n ms
FATHER--ACCOUNT or wuu nest-n on THE 13mm men
noemsox's qurrrme 11'.

As soon as I saw the lace, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was; e looked about a littlc,.and presently clapping
his hands, cried: "0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there," pointing to our
old habitation, and fell dancing and <<tapering like a mod fellow "and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into theses, to swim
ashore to the place.

"Well, Friday," says I, "Do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? and do you think we shall see your father?" The
fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor afi'ectionnte creature looked deljected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plentifu 1y. " What is the
matter, Frida P" says I; "are on troubled because you may see
your fatheri" "No, no," says e, shaking his head, " no see him
more: no, never more see him again." " 'hy so," said I, "Friday?
how do you know that?" "0 no, 0 no," says Friday; "be long
ago die, long ago, he much old man." "Well, well," says I, " Friday
you don't know -, but shall we see on one else, then?" The fellow,
It seems had better eyes than I, and no points to the hill just above
mv old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out
" We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much men there, and there, on
there." 1 looked, but I saw nohod , no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, Isuppose, because could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day; and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the
ship, not knowing what to think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
mmenl to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a qunrier of an hour after we per-
ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and hen mg out a
white flag, or a flag of truce. 1 went directly on shore, With
me the oung friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the etc of my
hv t ere, and the manner of it, and every particularrhoth of
niyse and those I left there; and who was, on that account,
extremely desxrous to go with me. We had besides about sixteen
men well armed, if we ind found any new guests there which we did
not know of; but we had no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowod directly into the creek; and the first. man that I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life 1 had saved. and whom I knew
by his face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe it after-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore but myself; but there was

 

no kce ing Friday in the boat, for the all'cctionate creature had 5 ied
his fat ier at a distance, a good way oll' the Spaniards, where in ecd
I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would havo lumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his l'nlhcr, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the lirmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor l'ellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face,
took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and la ' down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one woul look at a
strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then down upon
the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then et up

again, and store at him; one would have thought the {e ow be-
mtched.

It would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he
come towards the boat, attended by one more, carr ing all of
truce also: and he not only did not know me at first, ut he he no
thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. "Senhor," said 1, in Portuguese, " do you not know me?"museums or aonmson moon. 901'~

At which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man that
was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in S anish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embrace me;
telling me he was inexcusable not to know the face again, that he
had once seen as if an anicl came from heaven to save his life: he
said abundance of very undsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the erson that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. c then asked me if
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me sses-
sion of my own house again, and where I should see they ha made
but mean improvements: so I walked alon with him; but, alas! I
could no more find the place again than if had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a
posture, so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could find.

I asked them what put them u n all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was nee enough of it, when they had
given me an account how the had passe their time since their
arriving in the island, especiady after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone.

As to the three barbarians so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, e had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small: and, says he, had the been
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; an with
that he crossed himself on the breast. " But, srr,' says he, " I ho
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced y
necessity, we were obli d, for our own preservation, to disarm them,
and make them our su 'ccts, who would not be content with being
moderately our masters, ut would bcour murderers." I answered :
"I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing
troubled me at In part' from the island but that they were not
come back, that mighltngave put them in possession of everything
first, and left. the others in a state of subjection, as the deserved;
but if the had reduced them to it, I was very glad, an should be
very far rom finding, any fault with it; for I knew they were.
parcel of refractory, lmgoverned villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief."

While I was saying this, the man came whom he hadsent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he madeall
clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and porntmg
to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you ;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me,
he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by
one, not as if they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and the
like, but really as it' they had been ambassadors ot' noblc'nten, and I
n monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was to the last de-
gree obligiug and courteous, and et mixed With a mud , mnycstio
gravity, which very well become t tent; and, in short, t tey had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
eivilities, much less how to return them in kind. -

[shall no lottwer trouble the story With a relation in the first
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand said ['0
and mid Ac'x, and he told me'x. and I laid film's, and the like; but I
shall collect tlte facts historically, as near its 1 can utlter thetn out
of my memory, front what they related to me, and rent what l met
with in my conversing with them and witlt the [damn

The first thing, hon-ever, which i inquired into, that. i might begin
where i left oil', was of their own part; and l desired he would giVo
me a particular account of his voyage back to his eoutttrymen with
the heat, when I sent him to {itch them over. He told ate there
was little variety in that. )art, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way. having lhad very calm weather and a smooth see.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were over'oyed to see hint (it. scents he was the principal titan
among them, the ca itain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been tlt'ttt some time) ; they were, he said. the more sur-
prised to see him. because they knew that lte was fallen int-o the

ands ot' savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him. as
they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when lte told tltetn the
any of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for
carrying them awav, it was like a dream to them, and their
astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that of J oseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told tltetn tltc stor of his
excitation in Phantoh's court; but when he showed them I. te arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage. they were restored to themselves, took a 'ust
share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to
come away With him.

'l'hcir tirst business was to get. canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or eriaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or for plea,-
sure. in t tese they came away the next morning It seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready_; for they had no baggage,
neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in the worl.' but. what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
make their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent ; and in that time, unlnekil
for them. I had the occasion ofl'ered for my escape, as [mentione
in my other part, and to get 01! from the island, leaving three d
the most impudent, hardened, ungovorned, disagreeable villains
behind me, that any mun could desire to meet wnh; to the poor
Spaniards' great riel' and disappointment, you may be sure.

The only just t ring the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
come ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as 1 had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long pa er of directions which I had left with them, containing
the particuhir methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a
word, every thing I did; all this being written down, they are to
the Spaniards (two of them understood English well enough): nor
did they refuse to accommodate the Spaninrds with anything else,
for the agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal in mission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
socinhly; and the head Spaniard, who had seen rctty much of my
methods, mid Friday's father Inflother, managed all their ali'uirs:
but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home
at night, the Spuniards provided their 3le iers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the other!
but. let them alone; which, however, they could not lind in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The dill'er-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not
worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began
with all the rudeness, and insolence thnt cnn be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the'aecusers, yet
when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word.
0 it.

But before I come to the particulars of this Ipart, I must supply a
defect in my former relation; and this was, forgot to set down,
among the rest, that iust as we were wei hing the anchor to set sail,
there happened a litt e unrrcl on hoar of our ship, which I was
afraid would have turne to a second mutiny; nor was it a peased
till the captain, musing up his courage, and taking us to his
assistance, parted them b force, and making two 0 the most re-
fractory felows prisoners, 1e laid them in irons; and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons- to
England, and have them hnngcd there for mutiny, and running away a
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into gnol, and tried for
their lives. The male got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
With it; upon whieh it was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man amon them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and to them that the might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, l they had done for the. time past
should he. pardoned. So 1 went, and after passing my honour-'3
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the
wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who
had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and some
other weapons (what powder and shot they had we knew not), and
lmd taken the shi 's pinuaee, which was not yet hauled up, and run
away with her to iris com unions in rognery on shore. As soon as
we found this, I ordered tlie long boat on shore, with twelve men and
the mate, and away they Went to seek the re ties; but they could
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they a l fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in justice to their rovuery, to have destroyed their )lanta-
tions, burned all their houschoIld--stutl' and furniture, and left t rein to
shift without it; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board
Without them. These two men made their ntnnher live; but the
other three. villains were so much more wicked than the , that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned t no two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
to do with them; nor could they, for a good while. be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.

When the Spaniards cattle first on shore, the business began to go
forward : the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen <<min, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear of it:
so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
hiy up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards huvi

iveu them some corn for seed, and es ecially some of the peas whic

had left them, they dug. planted an enclosed, after the pattern I
had set for them all, and be an to live pretty well. Their f'xi't crop
of corn was on the ronutf; and though it was but a little bit of
land which they had ug up first, having had but a little time, et

it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and ot er
estables.
THE ACCOUNT CONTIKUBD--QUARREIS BETWEEN THE ENGLISMIBN
--A BATTLE BETWEEN 'L'WO PARTIES 0? SAVAGES WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND--IRES]! MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS.

THEY were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three
unnatural rogues, their own e'onntrymen too, in mere humour, and
to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the Governor, meaning me, had given them the posses-
sion of it and nobody else had any right to it; and that they should
Build no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for

em.

The two men, thinking the:' were 'esting at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see who>> tine houses they were that they
had built, and to tch them what rent they demanded; and one of
them merrily said, if they were the ground-landlords, he hoped, if
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease; and
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writinvs. One of
the three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they
were not in jest; and going to a little Klace at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress t eir victuals, he takes a fire-
brand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire: and it would have been burned all down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and

trod the tire out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty
too.
18206 anszTUites or noumson ttttusolt.

'l'hc fellow was in such a rage at. the honest man's thrusting .iim
away, that. he returned upon him, with a pole. he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the biow very nimhly, and run into the
hut. he had ended his days at once. H is comrade, seeing the danger
they \u-re both in, ran in after him, and immediately they both came
out with their muskets, and the man that was first. struck at with
the pole. knocked the fellow down that. had begun the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, and that. before the. other two could come
to help him ; and then seeing the rest come. at. them, they stood to-
gether, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand oll'.

.'l'he others had lire-arms with them too; but one of the two hon-
est men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, it' they otl'ered to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly eonmutuded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed. lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute it brought.
them to a parlor, and they consented to take their wounded man
with them and he. gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded sull'teiently with the l)lt)\\'. l'lowerer, they were mueh in
the wrong. since they had the advantage. that. they did not disarm
them etl'ectually, as they might. have done. and have gone innuedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an amount. of how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villians studied nothing but revenge,
and every day guru them some intimation that they did so.

But not. to erowd this part with an account. of the. lesser part. of
the rogueries, such as treading down their corn; shooting three
young kids and a she goat. \rhieh the mor men had got to breed up
tame for their store ; and, in a word plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it forCed the two men to such a desperation, that. they
resolved to light them all three, the first. time they had a fair oppor-
tunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it (that was, my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see fair play; so they
got it ) in the morning before day, and came to the )lace, and called
the hiiglishmen by their names, telling a Spaniar that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before. two of the Spaniards, having
been in the woods. had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for
distinction. I called the honest men, and he had made a. sad com-

ilaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
lrom their three countrymen. and how they had ruined their planta-
tion, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to
bring; forward. and killed the mileh goat and their three kids, whieh
was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he. and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not. assist them again, the
should he starred. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, in-
oll'ensive fellowa; that they were putting themselves in away to
subsist h their labour, and that it had cost them a great deal of
pains to ring things to such pertmtion as they were then in.

.- One of the Englislnuen retnrmtd very hriskl : "What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without save; and that the
should not plant or build u the island; it was none of their
groun ." " Why," says he Spaniard, very calmly, "Senhor

nglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
rough-howl: tarpaulin : "They might starve and be hanged; they
should not plant nor guild in that place." " But what must they
do, then, senhor?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brute:
returned: " Do? they should he servants, and work for them."
"But how can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
" they are not bought with your money: you have no right to make
them servants." 'I'heEnglishmuu answered: "The island was
theirs; the Governor had given it to them, and no man had anvthiug
to do there but themselves;" and with that. swore by his Maker
that they would go and burn all their new huts; they should build
none upon their land." " Why, senhor," says the paniard, "by
the same rule, we must be your servants too." " Ay," says the
bold dog, "and so you shall too before we have done with you."
The Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had hunted them; and starting up, one
says to the other, Pthiuk it was he they culled Will Atkins: " Come
Jack, let's go, and have 'tother brush with 'em; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our
dominiong."

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportu-
nity ofl'cred; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfect!
undurstaud them as to know all the particulars, oul that, in general
they threatened them hard for taking the two Eng ishmen's part.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the

duct: which I used to call my bower, they was weary, and overslept
t ourselves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till mid-
night, and so take the two poor men when they were asleep, and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts
while they were in them, and either burn them there, or murder
them as they came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
ver strange thev should not have been kept awake.

never. as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have208 anvu'runes or maixsou cansoz.

said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it hap cued, and verv luckily for them all, that they were up, and
genes road, before the bloo minded rogues came to their huts.

When they came there, an found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade: "Ha,
Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are flown. 'l'hey mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that. the S aninrds had given them
notice of it; and with that they shook ands, and swore to one
snot her that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this blood bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation : they didY not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little collected house-
luld stufi' in pieCes, and threw every thing about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some of their things a mile otl'
their habitation. When they had done all this, they ullcd up all
the young trees which the poor men had planted; pul ed up an en-
closure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in
a word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde
of 'l'artars would have done.

The two men were, at this 'uncture, gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due. '

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged one ano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their different con-
duct presently. When the three came back like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had ut
them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what t iey
had done, by way of scofl' and bravado; and one of them, stepping
up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
p av, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, tleerimy in his face, says to him: "And you, Senbor
Jack Spaniard, shat lithe the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as
brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well--made man, looked
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked
him down, as an ex is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues, as insolcnt as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme
diately : he missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went througl.amour-2s or nonmeoir cnuson. 209

his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled

retty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more
liurt than he really was, and that gut him into some heat, for before
he noted all in a perfect calm; ut now, resolving to go throu h
with his work, he stoo , and took the fellow's musket whom e
had knocked down, an was just ing to shoot the man who had
fired at him, when the rest of the pamards, being in the cave, came
out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.

 

When the were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards t eir enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
began to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have
their arms again: but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be
the best method they could take to keep them from killing one ano-
ther, told them they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, the would be very willing to assist and associate with
them as they 'd before; but that they could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away.
and raging like inadmen, threatening what they would do, though _
they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they offered any in'ury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot iihem as

they wlguld ravenous beast-s, wherever they found them; and if they
r
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However
this was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like l'urios As soon as they were gone, the two men
emne hack, in passion and rage euon0h also, though of another
kind; for, having been at their plantation, and finding it all demol-
ished and destroyed, m above, it. will easily he supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale. the Spaniards were so eager to tell theirs. And it was strange
enough to tind that. three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punislonent at. all

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus
disurmed them, made. light of their threatenings; but the two Eng-
lishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains
soever it cost to [ind them out. But the Spaniards interposed here
too, and told them, that as lhey had disarmed them, they could not
consent. that they (the two) should pursue them with lire-arms, and
perhaps kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their
governor, " we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for there is no doubt but they wrll come to us
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance: we promise you to make no peace with them, without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this coudit ion we hope
you will promise to use no Violence with them, other than in your
own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this vet y awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last.
" For," said they, " we are not so many of us ; here is room enough
{or us all, and it. is a great pity we should not be all good friends."
At. length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed

In about five days" time the three rag-rants, tired with wondering,
and almost starred with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs
all that. while, came hack lo the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as l have said, was the. vernor. and two more with him walk-
ing by the side of the ewe, they came a in a very submissive,
humhle manner, and lwgg'ml to be receive again into the fmnily.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
unnaturnlly by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), thu' they could not come to an conclusion without con-
sultiug the two Englishmen and the rest; lint, however, they would

0 to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an

our. It may be guessed that the were very hard put to it: for it
seems, as they were to wait this ha 1' hour for an answer, they begged
they would send them out some bread in the. meantime, which they
did, sending at the same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a
boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry
enough.
Afier half an hour's consultation, the were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen c largin them with the ruin
of all their labour. and a design to murder t em; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards noted the moderator between them; and as they hud
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
linked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, andwthe other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground
oguin where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
of those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn where
they had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore every thing in the
some state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
eculd not he, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being ossible to be recovered.

Well, they submitted to all this; and us they had lenty of pro-
visions given them all the while, they rew very or erlv, and the
whole society begin to live pleasantly an a db y together again:
only that these three fellows could never 0 persuaded to work, 1
menu for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased; however, the S uniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live soeiuhly on friendly together, and study the good of
the whole plantation, they would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and he as idle its they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for in month or two, the Spaniards gave
them arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as

e ore.

It was not above a week after the had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures .gan to he as insolent and
troublesmno as before: but, however, an accident happened pre-
sently u on this, which endangered the safety of them it , and they
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the pre-
servation of their lives.

It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him,
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
perfectly well in body, as he told me the stoiey, only found his
thoughts tumultuous; his mind run upon men ghting and killing
one another, but he was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep: in short, he lay a great while; but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so
many of them, upon goats' skins laid thick upon such couches and
finds as they made for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship

.ds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they
Were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put
on s coat. such as it was, and their pumps, and they were rscsdy for

I
oiug any way that their thou hts guided them. Beingthus got up,
lie looked out ; but, being darli, he could see little or nothing; and
besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is
described. and which were now crown toll, intercepted his sight, so
that he could only look up, all see that it was it clear starlight
night, and h 'aringz no noise he returned and laid him down again]
but It was all one, he. could not. sleep, nor could he compose. him-
self to anything like rest ; but his thoughts were to the last. degree
unc: . and he knew not: for what.

Ilaviug made some noise with rising and walking about, goin out
and coming: in. another of them thkt'tl, aml eallin . asked w to it.
was that was up. The governor told him how it It!" been with him.
" Say on so? " says the other Spaniard; "such thinvs are not to
be slig Med, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working
near us;" and presently he asked him: "Where are the English-
men?" "'I'hey are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough." It
seems that the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
and had made a place for the three Englishmen, who, since their
lust mutiny. Were ulw: s quartered by themselves, and could not
Come. at. the n: . " ll ll," says the Spaniard, " there is smut-thing
in it, I am pe aded, from my own experience. I am Satisfied our
5 iirits embodied have n conVeI'St' with,and ve intelli-rencc from,
t to spirits nneinbodied, and inhabiting the in ible world; and this
friendly not iee is girl-n for our advantage, it we knew how to make
use ot'it. Come," says he, " let. us go and look abroad; and it' we
find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to
the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing
it."

In a word. they went out, to go to the to of the hill where I
need to go; but. they being strong, and a gout company, not alone
as I was, used none. of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
p' Ilia-2; it. up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove, uneoneerned and unwary, when
they were surprised with seeing a light. as of fire, a very little way
oil' 1 - to them, and hearing the voices of men, not. one or two, but of
a great. number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landin" on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making ztshe least
discovery of their being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by anv occasion they came to know it. they felt it so ell'ectnully,
that they that got avay were scarce able to give any account of it;
for we. disappeared as soon as possible; nor did over any that had
seen me escape. to tell any one else, except. the three savages in our
last. encounter, who jumped into the boat; ol' whom I mentioned,
I was afraid they should o home and bring more help. Whether
it was the consequence o the est-ape of those men that so rent a
numb>> came now together, or whether they came ignorant y, and
by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not,
it seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any in-
habitants in the lace; or to have fallen upon them so efl'ectuallyl, as
that. not a man 0 them should have escaped, which could only ave
been bv getting in between them and their boats; but this presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquil-
lity'" for a great while.

Ve need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fel-
lows, riving them an account of the imminent danger they were all
in, am they a in as readily took the alarm; but. it was impossible
to persuade treat to stay close within, where they were, but they
must all run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
0 portunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
t to three tires they had made at a distance from one another; what
they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
thev did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small constemalion at this sight; and
when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop, in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would
see the token of inhabitants; and they were in rent purplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would liavc been little less
than starring them, if they should have been destroyed ; so the first
thin they resolved upon was to despatch three men away before it
was ight, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive al the goats
away to the great valley where the care was. and, if need were, to
drive them mto the very cave itself. Could they have seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they resolved, it there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them , but that could not he obtained: for they were some of them
two miles off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards were of
two different nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beating their brains in consideriu their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was sti dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con-
cerning them; as what they came for, what they intended to do,
and the. like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, awa he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word t. not he has
been among them undiscovered; that he found they were two
parties, and of two several nations. who had war with one another,
and had a great. battle in their own eouiitry; and "int both sides
having had N'V'I'I'ttl prisoners taken in the light. they were, by mere
elianee, landed all on the same island, tor the. devouring their
prisoners and making inerrv, but their coming so by chance to
the same plane had spoiled all their iiiirtli; that. Ihey Were in ugreut
rage at one another, and were so. u or, that he believed they would
light again as soon as daylight. lw'ttll to a mean but he did not
wreeive that they had any not ion of any liotlly being on the island
lint tlioniseivea. lle hail litirdlv made an end ol' telling his story.
when they eouhl pereeive, by the unusual llHlM' they made, that the
two little armies were engaged in a bloody light.

Friday's l'allier used all the arguments lie eoiild to piirsuado our
people to lie elose. and not be. seen: he told them their safety eon-
aisled iii it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
savages wouid kill one. another to their hands. and then the real.
would go : -. and it. was so to it little. but. it was impossible to
prevail. espeeially upon the. liliiglisliiiieii; their euriosity was so
niipoi'tunate upon their priideiilials, that. they must. I'llll out. and see.
the battle; lionever they used some eaiitioii too, viz. they did not
go o ienly. just. by their own dwelling. but went. further into the
wow 3, and plaeed themselves to advantage, where they might
securely see them manage the light, and. as they thought, not. he
seen by them; but. it. xeems the savages did see. them, as we shall
(ind hereafter.

The battle was very lleree: and. if T might believe one of the
Englishmen, one of them said he could pereeii-e that. some. of them
were men ol' great bravery, of inviiieihle. spit'lt', and of great mliey
in guiding the light. The. battle. they Stllii, held two hours )el'ore
they could guess which party would be beaten; but then, that party
which was nearest. our people's habitation begun to appear weakest,
and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this 'iut
our men twain into it great. eoimternation. lest. any one of those I mt.
fled should' run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter. and
thereby involuntarily discover the plum; and thin, bv C(lllbttquttllcc,
the iursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon this they
reso red they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the. grove, they resolved to sally over the wall and kill them; so
that, if possible, not. one. should return to give :iii account. of it: they
ordered also that it should he done with their swords or liy kuoekini;
them down with the stoeks ol' their iiiiiskels, but not by shooting
them, for fear ol' raisingIr int alarm iy the noise.

As they expected. it. fell out: I lrt't' ol' the. routed army tied for
life. and ems-sing; the creek. ran direetly into the place. not in the
least knowing whit-her they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The seoul they kept. to look abroad gave notice. of this
Within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz. that
the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone: upon this, the Spaniard governor, a. man of humanity, would
not sulfer them to kill.the three fugitives, but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people lied to their canoes, and got of to
sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawin
themselves into a body together, gave two scroami shouts, whic
thev supposed was b the way of triumph, and so I e light ended:
and the same day, at out three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
savages in several years after.

After they were all one, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of ttle, the found about two-and-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were kille with great long arrows, some of
which were found stickingin their bodies; but most of them were
killed with rest wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which were
found on he field of batlle, and as many bows, with a mat many
arrows. These swords were strange, rent, unwieldy tiln'ngs, and
they must he very strong men that use them ' most of those men
that were killed with them had their heads mashed to ieces, as we
may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains knoc ed out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it was evident they
fight with inex ressible r e and fury. We found not one man that
was not stone- cad, for eit ner they stay by their enemy till they have
quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are 'not '
quite dead away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, especial] upon supposing that some
time or other the should fall into the ands of those creatures, who
would not only lull them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle; and they professed to me, that the thou hts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was suppo that it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that
it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual flavor, that the were
not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tame even
the three English hrutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great
while after, they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalised to the country. But some time after
this, they fell into such measures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed , and these three
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and
taught them to work for them; and usslaves, they did well enough;
but they did not take their measures with them as I did by my man
Fridu , viz. to begin with them upon the principle 61' having saved
their 'ves, and then instruct them in the rational principles of life ;

 

much less of religion, civilizing and reduein them by kind usage
and afl'ectionatc arguings; but asthey gave t em their food every
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed
In drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that the never
had'them to assist them, and ti ht for them, as 1 had my man riday,
who was as true to me as the t esh u )on my bones.

But to come to the family art. eing all now good friends, for
common danger, as I saidniove, had ell'ectually reconciled them,
they be an to consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing t mt came under their consideration was. whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
move their habitation, and plant in some. more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this. after long debate, it was concluded that they would
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they
thought they might hear from their governor again, meaning inc;
and if I should send any one to seek them, I should he sure to direct
them to that side; where, if they should find the place demolished,
the would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone ;
on so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle,
they agreed to remove them into the valley where my cave was,
where the land was as proper for both. and where, indeed, there was
land enough ; however, upon second thoughts, they altered one art
of their resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of t reir
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had made prisoners, with
knowmg an thing of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any cattc they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity. as a safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my
coming away But, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation, yet the agreed, that as I had carefully covered it
first With a wall or ortilieation, and then with a grove of trees, so
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the dune yet more etiectually than before. For this purpose.
as I plame trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew
to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my
apartments. they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of round, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the creegk, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and
even into the ver ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leav-
ing an place to and, or any sign that there had been any landing
therea out ; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
as I have noted formerl , they took care to have them generally
much larger and taller 111m those which I had planted; and as they
grow a ace, so they )lanted them so very thick and close together,
that w ten they had 1been three or four years grown, there was no
piercin with the eye any considerable way into the plantation ; and
as for t mt. part winch I had planted, the trees were grown as thick
as a man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisade a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to cnetrute it, but
with a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog could hardlv
get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for the did the same by all the cum! to
the right hand and the left, an round even to the top 0 the hill,
leavin no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by
the der placed up] to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and
placed again from t e first stage up to the top; and when the adder
was taken down, nothing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist
it, could come at them. This was excellentl well contrived; nor
was it less than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi
deuce to set. it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of
it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by

the way.
19
I retum to the story.-----They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given to them one morning, which put them into a
great. consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island (which was
that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), they
were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians Just
coming on shore. They made the best; of their way home, in hurry
enon-rh ; and iring the alarm to their comrades, they ke it. close all
that tay and t u: next, going out only at. night to make t. cir obser-
vation: but they had the f'Ufid luck to be mistaken; for wherever
the savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but
pursued some other design.

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most tnrhnlent fellow, ln-iu" in a rage at one of the
three slaves, which I mentioned they and" taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which he hid him do, and seemed a

 

little untraetnhle in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it. by his side, and fell upon the poor savage,
not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulders, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arms otl', ran to him, and en-
trenting him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being
enraged the more at this, st ruck at the Spaniard with his hatchet.
and swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage;
which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and With a shovel
which he had in his hand (for they were all working in the field
shout their corn-land) knocked the brute down. Another of the
Englishmen running at the stone time to help his comrade, knocked
the bpnnierd down; and then two Spaniards more came in to help
their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any lire-arms, or an other weapons but hatchets and
other tools, except this third Eng ishman; he had one of my rusty
cullnsscs, wilh w rich he made at the two last Spaniards and wounded
then. both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had
been so often mntinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, they knew not what course to lake with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurlt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
wit I them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that
if they haul been of his own country, he would have hanged them;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve sociely, and those
who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it;
but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kind-
ness of an Englishnmn that they all owed their reservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible enity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them: "For," says he, " 1 am sure we ought
to sentence them to the gallows :" and with that he ives an account
how Will Al kins, one of the three, had roposed to ave all the five
Englishmen join together, and murder 1 the Spaniards when they
were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins,
"lluw Senhor Atkins, would you murder us all? Whnt have you
to say to that ?" 'l'he hardened villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true : and, that they would do it still,
before they had done with them." "Well, but Senhor Atkins,"
says the Spaninrd, "what have we done to you, that you will kill
us? And what would you get by killing usl' And what must
we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill gem, or you kill
us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, nhor Atkins?"
says the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling. Senhor Atkins was in
such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, bed he not
been held by three men, and witlinl had no wee on near him, it was
then ht he would have attempted to have kille the S anierd in the
midi - of all the company. This hair-brained carriage ob iged them to
consider seriously what was to be done: the two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of the opinion that
they should hang one of the t rec, for an example to the rest; and
that particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit
murder with his hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done. it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received, that. it was thought he
Could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that, had saved all their lives. and he would never con-
sent to put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half
of them; nay, he said, it" he had been killed himself by an En lish-
man. and had time left to speak, it should be that they stould
pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gaiusaying it ; and as merciful Counsels are most. apt. to

revail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into
it: but then it was to be considered what should" be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they designed; for all reed, govemor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving t ie society from
dau ,r. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should
be isarmed, and not, permitted to have either gun, powder, shot,
sword, or any weapon ; and should he turned out of the society, and
left to live where they would, and how they would, by themselves;
but that. none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anything to do with
them : that they should be forbid to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest, dwelt; and if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn. kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belon ing to the society, they
should die without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever they
could find them.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned thnm out to
shift for themselves. They went. away sullen and refractory, as
neither content. to 70 away nor to stav ; but as Ihere was no remedv,
they went, preteming to go and choose a place were they would
settle themselves; and some provisions were given them, but no
wea )OIlS.

A out four or five days after, they came a ain for some vietuals?
md gave the governor an account where t icy had iitehed their
tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation;
and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the remotest part of
the island, N.l'l., much about the place where I had providentially
landed in my first. voyage, when 1 was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attem t to sail round the island.

Here they built themselves two han seine huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my first habitation, but close under the side
of a hill, having some trees growin already on three sides of it, so
that by planting others, it. would be very easil covered from the
sight, unless narrowly searched for, They desire some dried ats'-
Ikms, for beds and covering, which were given them; an upon
giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure a
of theirplantations, they gave them halchets, and what other too s
they con d spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sewing; and, in a
word, anything they wanted, cxce t arms and ammunition.

'l'hey hved in this separate con 'tion about six months, and had
got in their first harvest thou h the quantity was but small, the
parcel of land they had lantcd being but little; for, indeed, having
all their plantation to em, they had a at deal of work upon
their hands; and when they came to mail:c boards and pots, and
such things, they were quite out of their element, and could make
nothing ol it: and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave
in the earth, they could not keep their rain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humble them much: so the cams
and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very read' y did;
and in {our days worked a hole in the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was at a cor lace, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mmc was t en, or the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made
several new apartments in it.

About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic
took these rogues, which, together urith the former villany they had
committed, brought mischief enou in upon them, and had very
nearly been the ruin of the whole co ony. The three new associates
began, it seems, to he weary of the laborious life they led, and that
without hope of betterin their circumstances; an a whim took
them, that they would in c a voyage to the continent, from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
them do the laborious part ol their work for them.

The prn'eet was not so preposterous, if the had no no farther:
but they id nothing, and proposed nothing, at h either mischief
in the design, or mischief in the event : and, il' 1 may give my opinion,
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow
a vxsihlc curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with the divine justice ? It was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and the showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villames to it, such as
the piece of monst;ous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he
did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed;
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a lace where no surgeon or medicine could be had for
his care; an what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for sueh_to be sure it
was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder
the Spaniards in cold blood and in their sleep.

19'
THE llllf'l'lN'Ol-'S ENIHJSHMHN DISMISSED FRO." Tlll". ISLAND--RE-
Tl'KN \l'l'l'll SEVERAL (l-U'TH'I'I SAMXHES --'l'.-\KE'1'IIE FEMALES A8
WIVES --Al(lll\'Al. Uk' s:\\A(iES.

BUT I leave observing and rrturn to tho stout--The throc fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humhlc. terms
drsin-d to lltT :ulmittod to speak with leni; tho. Spaniards wry
readily hrard what. they had to say, which was Ihis:----'l'hat they
wore tired ol' living in tho manner they did; and that. they \vrrr not-
handy enough to make the not-rssurivs thry wantrd. and that. having
no hvlp, thov found Ila-y should hr. starrod; but if the Spaniards
would gin: IIn-m ham.- to lake our of tho canons which they czunc
over in, and gin.- thrm arms and ammunition proportimwd to tlu-ir
(left'llm3, they would go over to thr'. main and seek their fortunes,
and so (ll-liver them from their trouble of supplying them with any
other provisions.

The Spaniards wot-c glad enough to gut. rid of them, but. very
honestly ri-prrscntcd to them the certain (lest rnrt ion they were run-
ning into; told l.hr:n they had sum-rod such hardships upon that
wry spot. that. they could, without any spirit of proplu-c_\_' tell them
they would hr stun-rod. or mnrdorml, and hadr. tlu-m consider ot ll.

'l'hc nu-n rvplird :uulamously. they should b0 slam-d it' they Moved
here, for thry could not work, and would not work, and they could but.
be smrvml abroad ; and II thoy \\'('l't' murdered, thorn was an end of
them; they had no \nvcs or children to cry after them: and, in
short, insisted importuuatel upon their demand -, declaring they
would go, whether they wonhl give them arms or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were re-
solved to go, thev should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defend themselves: and that though they could ill spare
their tire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets, a pistol and n cutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought was sullieient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to
serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a
pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
autos for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles

1'0" .

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to manawo; but as they had a fair breeze, and llood title with
them, they did well enough. They had made a mast. of a long pole,
and a sail 01' four large goats'Askins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enough; the Spaniards
called alter them, Bum oily/e,- and no man ever thought of seeing
them any more. .

The S mniards were often saying to one another, and to the two
honest Englishmen who remained behind, huw quietly and comfort-
ahly they lived, now these three turbulent. follows were gone; as for
their coming again, that. was the remotest thing from their thou hts
that could be ima ined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty ays'
sbscnce,oneof the 'nglishmen, being abroad upon his plantin work,

sees three stran 6 men coming towards him at a distance, wit guns
upon their shou dcrs.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes frinht-
(mud and amazed to t to governor Spaniard, and tells him that fiiey
were all undone, l'nr there were st rangers landed upon the isiand, but
could not tell who. 'l'hc Spaniards, pausing a while, says to him,
" How do you mean, you eaunot tell who? They are the savages,
be sure." " No, no," says the Englishman : " they are men in clothes,
with arms." " Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " wh are you con.
corned? If they are not savages. they must. be frien ; for there is
p0 Christian nation upon earth but. what will do us good rather than
tarm."

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without the Wund, wnich was new planted, hallon to them,
they presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind
ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon another question,
viz., What could be the matter, and what made them come back

ain ?

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where
they had been, and what. they had been doing, they gave them a full
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That they reached the
land in two days, or something less; but finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to fight them,
they durst not re on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or
seven hours, t' they came to a great o )ening, by which they per-
ceived that the land they saw from our island was not the main, but
an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the ri ht hand, north, and several more west; and havin
resolved to landg somewhere, they put over to one of the islands wh.c
lay west, and went. boldly on shore : that. the found the people very
courteous and friendl to them; and that tiey gave them several
roots and some drie fish, and appeared very sociable; and the
wonwn as well as the men were very forward to supply them with
anything they could pet for them to eat, and brought it to them a
great way upon tlteir wads.

They continued here four days : and inquired, as well as they
could of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that: lived almost
every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said, they never eat. men or women,
except only sueb as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they tirade a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind ;
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and
to two lintrers; and that their great kin" had two hundred priuotm's
new, whic l he had taken in his war, an the were feeding them to
make them fat for the next feast. The Eng ishmen seemed mighty
desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of thctn to carry away for
their own eating ; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next
morning at. sun-rising they would bring some for them; and accor-
dingly, the next morning, they brought down five women, and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a
seaport town to victual a ship.

As brulish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentry that could be oll'ered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old kc , a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they id not understand their use,
they seemed tarticulavly pleased With ; and then tying the poor crea-
tures' hands hind them, they dragged the prisoners into theboat for

our men.Anvss'rvaes or norm-son cnusos. 225

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that. gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work with
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and er
haps have invited the donors to dinner. But having taken t eir
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could Well pass between
people, where on either side, they understood not one word they could
say, they put off with their boat, and came back towards the first
island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at
liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion.

In their voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of all unbound them ; but He pour creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed. If they gave them anythm to eat it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear t iey should sink in
flesh, and so not he fat enough to kill. If thev looked at one of
them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after'
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly,
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or su per for their new masters.

W ten the three \vandercrs had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come u to bog
some vietuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the ot er two
Enrvlislnnen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down
to the place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore, the bound their hands, that they
might not take the boat and mare t ieir escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well~shapcd, straight and fair limbs, about thirty lo
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof we might be
from thirty to forty; two more, not above four or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect
white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in London
itself, having pleasant agreeable countenanccs, and of a. very modest
behaviour, especiall when they came afterwards to be clothed and
dressed, as they cal ed it; though that dress was very indifferent,
it must he confessed.

' Q
The sight, you may he sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of the best
behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that. ever I met with; and, in partieular, of the most
modest, as will presently appear: Isay, the sight was vcr uncouth,
to see three nakcdmen and live naked women, all toget l('l' hound,
and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could
be supposed to he, viz. to be expecting every moment to he dragged
out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like
a calf that is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in, and see, first, it he knew any of them. and then, it'
he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came
in, he looked seriously at them, but. knew none of them; neither
Could any of them understand a word he said, or a Sign he could
make, exeept one of the women. However. this was enough to
answer the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that. they ahliorrcd eating
men or women; and that they might he sure they would not, he
killed. As soon as they were assured of this. they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, sen-ml ways, as is hard to
describe; for, it seems they were of several nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was hid, in the next place,
to ask them it' they were willing to he serv. its, and to work for the
men who had brought, them away, to save their lives; at. which they
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and ano-
ther that, anythingr that lay next, to Carry on their shoulders, to
intimate that they were vvillins.r to work.

The governor, who found that the having women anion" them
would presently he attended with some inconvenience, and, might
oceasion some strife, and perhaps hlood. asked the three men what.
they intended to do with those women, and whether they intended to
make them servants or wires? One of the Englishmen answered
very boldly and readily, that they would make them both; to which
the governor said: "I am not going to restrain you from it; you
are your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you
for that reason only. viz. that you will all eng. 00. that if any of you
take any of tin-si- women, that while you stay'ltere, the woman any
of you takes. should he maintained by the man that, takes her, and
should be his wife." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards it' they designed to
take any of them? But every one of them answered no: some of
them said they had wires in Spain, and the others did not. like
women that were not. Christ ians: and all together declared that they
would not have one. of them. On the other hand, to be short, the
five Englishmen took every one of them a. wife; and so they set up
11 new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The
three servants which were taken in the late battle of the savages

 

lived with them; and those carried on the main part of the colony,
supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as
they could, or as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
mntehed fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same women, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrclling
amono themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one ot their huts, and they went all into the other but, and drew
lots among them who should choose first.

He that: drew to chooae first went away by himself to the hut
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that
was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the fire, which made mirth
enough among the rest ; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but
the fellow considered better than any of them, that it was appli-
cation and Business they were to expect assistance in, as mueh
as ":1 anything else ; and she proved the best wife of all the
pore .

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
{etched out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and they firmly believed they were now going to be de-
voured. Aeeordin ly, when the English sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, I to rest set up a most lament-able cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and afi'ec-
tion as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor

Q2928 anvnarunns or ROBINSON censor.

was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that thew were
not to be immediately murderedx till they fetched the old man,
Friday's father, who immediately let. them know that the five men,
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their
"'H'PS.

W hen thev had done, and the fright the women were in was a
little over, the men went. to work, and the Spaniards came and
'u-lped them; and ion few hoursthey had builtthemcv ry one a new
hat or tent. for their lodging apart. ; for those the. lam already were
emu-(led with their tools, household stull', andY erovzsions. The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest oif, and the two utmost ones
nearer, but. both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinued separated as before; and thus my island was peopled in three
Iliit't's", and, as I might. say, three towns were commenced to be
will.

And here it. is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
hi the world (what the wise ends of God's pron-knee are, in such a
disposition of things, Icaunot. say}. the two honest. fellows had the two
worst. wives; and the three reprol-ates, that. were scarce worth haug-
mq, that were lit. for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
selves good, nor any one else, had three elever, diligent, careful, and
ingeniouz- wires: not that the first two were had wives, as to their
temper or humour, for all the. five were most willing, quiet, passive,
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; but my
meaning is, they were not alikceapable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must. make, to the honour of a diligent
application, on one liainl, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negli-
gent, idle temper, on the other, that when 1 came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, plantings, and management of the
s; veral little colonies, the two men had so far ontgoue the three,
that there was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as
inurli ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason was,
because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it was to no
purpose to sow more corn than (her wanted; but the ditfet'cncc of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and, indeed, of every
thing; else, was easy to be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their
buts, so that. when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen
but wood; and though they had twice had their lantation demo-
lisln'd. once by their own countrymen, and once w the enemy, as
shall be shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, and
everything was thriving and flourishing about them, they had
ginpi's planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they
kind themselves never seen anything of that kind; and by their good
ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again as :1in ol the
others. They had tdso found themselves out a retreat. in the thickest.
art of the woods; where, though there was not a natural cave, as I
lull found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands,
and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children, so as they could never be found;
they havinrr, bv sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood
which, as fsnid, grew so readily, mude the grove un mssahle, excl-pt
in some places where they climbed up to get over t e outsnle part,
and then went on by ways of their own leavmg.

 

As to the three to rebates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilized y their settlement, compared to what they
were before, and were not so quarrelsomc, having not the same
Opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind
never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted
corn, and made fences, but Solomon's words were never betterverified
than in them, "I went by the Vineyard of the slothful, and it was
all overgrown with thornsg" for w ten the Spaniards came to view
their crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge
had several ga s in it, where the wild oats had got in and eaten up
the corn ; per zips here and there a ( cad hush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-
(loor after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and
success upon all they did; there was not aweed to be seen in all
their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, "that the diligent
hand makcth rich ;" for every thi w grew and thrived, and they had
plenty within and without; they chad more tame cattle than the

others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more

pleasing: and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were. very handy and eleunly
within doors, and having learned the English ways of dressing and
cooking from one of the other l'higlislnnen. who, as 1 said. was a
cook's male. on board the ship, they dressed th -ir hnsbands' vietuals
verv nieelv am] well; wherezut the others eon d not. be brought to
understand it: but then the husband, who, as 1 say, had been
eook's mate, did it himself But. as for the husbands ol' the tlnec
wives, they loitrred about, fetched turtles' eggs. and enught. fish and
birds; in a word, anything but. labour, aml they fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well aml eoml'ortably; and the slothl'ul lived hard
and beggarly; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it. is all over
the world.

ltut 1 now come. to a scene (lill'erent. from all that had happened
lttfrttl'tt, either to them or tome; and the original of the story was
this: Early one morning, there calm: on shore tive or six canoes of
Indians or savages, eall them which you please, and there is no doubt.
they eanm upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the S tauiards, aml to our men too,
that. they did not concern themselves a )nlti. it, as I did: but. having
been made. sensible, h their experience, that. their only business was
to lie eoneealed, anti that if they were not. seen by any of the
savages. they would go otl' araiu quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the hast. notion of there being anv inhabi-
tan's in the. island; 1 say, having been made sensible of this, they
had nothing to do but. to give not ice. to all the. three plantations to
keep within doors, and not. show tln-mselves, only pluemg a scout in
a proper place, to give nottee when the. boats went to s again.

This was, Without doubt, very right; but. a disaster spoiled all
these measures. and made it. known among the savages that there
were inhabitants there; \\'ltit'il was, in the. end. the desolation of
almost. the wiiole colony. After the eanoes with the savages were
gone oil', the Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and some of them had
the curiosity to "o to the plaee where they had been, to see what.
they had been (ointr. Here. to their great. surprise, they found
titre: savages left. behind, and lying its-t. as eep upon the ground.

The Spaniards were greatly surpi ed at. this sight, and perfectly
at. a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it ha Ipeued, was
with them, and his adviee was asked. but he trot'essed 1e knew not>>
what to do. As for slaves, they had enougt already; and Is to
killing them, they were none of them inelined to that: the S tanisb

ovcrnor told me, they could not. think of shedding innocent deed:
for as to them, the poor crtudures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and they thought. they had no just qua el
amtinst. them, to take away their li\ s. And here I nmst, in ynstiec
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what. they will, 1 never met with seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, tem crate, virtuous, so very good--humoured, and
so courteous, as these paniards; and as to cruelty, they had nothing
of it in their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out.
ragcous passions; and yet all of them men of great eoura and
sririt. Their temper and calmness had ap care in their caring
tie insutl'erable usage of the three Englismicn; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above.
After some consultation, they resolved u on this: that they would
lie still a while lon er, till, if possible, tiese three men might he
gone. But then he governor Spaniard recollected, that the three
savages had no boat; and if they were left to rave about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so
the should he undone that way. U on this they went back again,
an there lay the fellows fast asleep str 1, and so they resolved to wakcn
them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows
were strannely frightened when they were seized u on and bound;
and afraidilikc the women. that they should be mur cred and eaten :
for it seems those people think all the world does as they do, eating
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away
they carried them.

It was very happy for them that the ' did not carry them home to
their castle, 1 mean to my palace un :r the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, 8:0. ; and after-
wards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was b negligence in guarding them, or
that they thought the fellows cou d not mend themselves, I know
not, but one of them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more. .

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels as usual
went all in two days time. This thought terrified them exceedingly;
for the concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if
this fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly

ive them an account that there were people in the island, and also how
ew and weak they were: for this savage, as I observed before, had
never been told, and it was very happy he had not, how many there
were, or where they lived ; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any
of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their other
retired )laees; such as the cave in the valle , or the new retreat
which t e two Englishmen had made, and the ike.

The first testimon they had that this fellow had given intelligence
of them was, that, a .uut two months after this, six canoes of savages,
with about srven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowin along
the north side of the island, where they never used to oomeqtefore.
and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a mile from the habitat ion of the two Englishmen, where this escaped
man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the. damage would not. have. been so mueh, for not. mean of
them would have escaped ; but the ease ditl'ered now very much, for
two men to titty was too much odds. The. two men had the happi-
ness to discover them about a league oil, so that it. was above an
hour before they landed; and as they landed about a mile from their
hats, it was some time before they could come at them. New,
having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first
thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three men who were brought with the women (who
1!. seems proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two
wires, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their rc~
tired laces in the woods, whieh l have spoken of above, and there
to l)lll( the two fellows hand amt foot, till they heard further.

In the next. place, seeing the sa" ares were all come on shore, and
that they had beat their eourse ireetly that way, they opened the
fences where the milch goats were kept, and drove them all out;
leaving their goats to st raggle iu the woods, whither they pleased,
that. the savages might think they were all bred wild; but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account. of it all, for they went (lireetly to the place.

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with
the. women. and who was at the place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help ; and, in the mean time, they took their arms and what ammuni-
tion they had. amt retreated tow rd< the place in the wood where their
wives were sent ; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see,
if pOSsihle whieh way the savages rank.

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could
see the little army of their enemies come on directly to their
habitation, and, in a minute more, aould see all their huts and house-
hold st utl" flaming up together, to their great grief and mortitieation ;
for the had a very great loss, to them irretrievablo, at least for some
time. 'lhey kept their station for a while, till they found the savages,
like wild bezwts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way and every place they co'tld think of, in search of prey;
and in particular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared
they had intelligence.

The two liuglisluueu seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they might come too many together, thought,
it proper to make another retreat. atom half a mile farther; believing,
us it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together.
SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMAINDER LEAVE THE ISLAND---
A FLEET OF THEM: APTERWARDS ARRIVE--A GENERAL BATTLE--
TILE SAVAGES ARE ovencoun, AND TRANQUXLI'I'! RESTORED.

Tnzm next belt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown art of
the woods and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was ollow
and vastly large; and in this tree they both took their standing, re-
solving to see there what might ofi'er. They had not stood there
long, before two of the savages appeared running directly that way,
as if they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up
to attack them; and a little way farther they espicd three more com-
ing after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at adistance run-
ning another way; for, in a. word, they run every way, like sports.
men heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a. very short debate
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages d the
country thus before help came, they mioht perhaps find out t eir re~
treat in the woods, and then all would be lost: so they resolved to
stand them there; and if the were too man to deal with, then they
would get u to the top of t e tree, from w ence they doubted not

to defend t emselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition
0.
.asted, though all the savages that. were landed, whiclt was near fifty,
were to attack theta.

Haring: resolved upon this. they nest. considered whether they
should tire at. the tirst two, or wait for tlte three, and so take the
middle part\' by which the two and the tire that followed would he
Si'ltal'nl-l'tl : at. length they resolved to let the tirst. two pas-s hy, un-
less they should spy them iii the tree, and come to attach them.
The first two savages cotttirmed thetn also in this resolution, by
turning a little from the!" towards another part. of the uood ; but.
the three, and the tire. alter them, came forwattt directly to the tree,
as it' they had known the l'lnglishnn-n were there. Seeing them
come so straight. toward them. they resolved to take them in a line
as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at. a time, perhaps
the tirst shot might. hit Ihettt all three: for which purpose, the man
who was to tire put three or four sntall bullets into his piece; atul
hating a fair loophole. as it were, from a broken hole iit tlte tree, he
look a sure. aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within
nbour thirlv yards of the tree. so that lte could not. miss.

While. they were thus waning, and the savages cmnc on, they
plainly saw that. one of the three was the runaway savage that. had
('>(':tpt'tl t'mni tltetn : and they hollt knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, it' possiltle, he should not. escape, though they should hoth tire ;
so the other stood ready with his piece. that. if he did not. drop at the
tirst shot, he should be sure. to have a second. lint. the first was too
good :1 marksman to miss his aim; for as the savages kept. near one
another, a little behind, in a llllt', he fired, and hit. two of them
directly : the foremost was killed outright. being shot iii the head ; the
seeond. which w s the runaway lndian. was shot. through the body,
and tell, but not quite dead; aml the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, wrhaps by the same hall that. went through the
body of the second; and being dt'eadl'ull' f netted. though not. so
nun-h lmrt, sat down upon the ground: screaming and yelling in a
hideous ntatttter.

The tire that were behind. more frightened with the noise than
sensible ot' the. danger, stood still at. first: for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling
from one side to another, attd the l'owls rising from all parts, scream-
ing. and every sort making a dill'ercnt. noise, according to their kind;
just as it was when l tired the tit-st gun that. perhaps was ever shot
otl' in the island.

ltow-rer, all being silent again, and they not. knowin what the.
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the p ace where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough ; and here the
poor ignorant creatures. not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief. stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talk-
ing, and, as may he suppOsed, inquiring of him how he came to he
hurt: and who, it is very rational to believe, told them, that a. flash
of tire first, and immediately after that thunder from their (is, had
killed those two and wounded him: this, i say, is rationa ; for no-
thing: is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a gun in all their lives, not so much as heard of a
gun ; neither knew they any thing of killing and woundixn7 at a dis-'
lanee with tire and bullets: if they had, one might rcnsomihly believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of
their fellows, without some apprehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them
to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his iece again, resolved to let fl
mth together among them ; and sin" ing out, by agreement, whicr
to aim at, they shot together. and llilled, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt,
full with the rest; so that. our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns,
which was a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when
they came to the place, and found no less than four of them alivc,
and of them two ver little hurt, aml one not at all: this obliged
tin-m to fall upon tlcm with the stocks of their muskets; and first
they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of
all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put
them out of their pain: then the man that was hurt not at all came
and kneclcd down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by jcstures and si ms, for his life, but could
not say one word to them that they con d understand. However,
they made signs to him to sit down at. the foot of atrce hard b ;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twined, which to
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: anti with what speed they could made after
the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once
in sight. of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however,
they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the
sea, quite the contrary way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afraid of ; and being satisfied with that, they went
back to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as the suppos-
ed, was delivered hy his comrades, for he was ne, an the two
pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had hound him, lay just at the
foot. of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
Course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers;
so they resolved to go away to the place were their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough, to be sure; for though the savages were. their oun country-
folk, yet. they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the
more for the knowled '0 they had of them.

When they came Here, they found the savages had been in the
wand, and very near that. place, but. had not found it : for it was in.
deed inaccessible, by the trees standing: so thick, as unless the
persons seeking it. had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not: thev found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in a terrible friuht. \\ bile they were here, they had the
comfort to have seven ofthe Spaniards come to their assistance ; the
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, 1 mean Friday's
father, were gone in a body ro defend their bower, and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that. side of the country; but they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one. of the three savages who, as I
said, were their prisoners formerly; and with them also came the
savage whom the Englishmen had left bound hand and feet at the
tree: for it seems, they emne that way, saw the slaughter of the
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they
had the two others who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to be a hurtlien to them; and the were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to hi 1 them
all, believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for
their own preservatirm. However, the Spaniard governor would not
consent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with
two Spaniards to uard them, and give them food for their subsis.
tenee, which was done; told they were bound there hand and foot
for that night.

When the S mniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there;
but taking tire of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets
and a pistol among them, and two stout. quarter-stoves, away they
went in nest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men ay that had been killed; but it was eas to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they he attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a nod way, but
had given it over. From thence they advanced to tie first risin
ground, where they had stood and seen their earn ) destroyed, and
where they had the mortifieation still to see some 0 the smoke : but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible cant ion, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came thither, eomine in sight of
the sea-shore, they saw plainly the savages all unburied again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, that
there was no way to come at them, to give them a. parting blow;
blut, .upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
tiem.

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their im.
provcnients destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and hel them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies '1' reir three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for havin the least inclination
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard 0 it Sm they living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till 1 was over), came
and oll'ercd their help and assistance, and did, very friendly, work for
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries tor
thorn. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon their legs

"am.

RaAhout two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of the savagcs' canoes come drivin on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: y which the had
reason to believe that they had met with a storm at sea, whic had
ovorset some of them, for it had blown very hard the night after
they went ofl.

owcvcr, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand. enough
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature; which they, it seems, resolved to'at-
tempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them: for except what
the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man, and the fellow
being Ikilled thnt had ati'n-med it, they had no other witness to confirm
It to t icm.

It was five or six months after this before they heard an more
of the savages. in which time our men were in hopes they hsjeither
forgot. their former had luck, or given over hopes of better; when,
on a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no
ltss than cight-mrd-twenty canoes, full of save cs, armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, an such-like en 'nes of
wnr ; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in 5 art, it
put all our people into the utmost consternation.

As tln-y came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved,
first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two
Englishmen, and drive turn their goats to the old cave ; because they
supposed the savages word go directly thitheruas soon as it was dav,
to play the old game over again, though they did not new land with-
in two leagues of it. In the next lace, they drove away all the
flocks of goals they had at the old ower, as 1 called it, which be238 At\\'!~2.\"|'t'l(l-'.S or littlHXSUN cuuson.

 

hinged to the Spuni: ' ; and. in shnrt. left as little nmw: mice at
lllllllldl'illll'S any "here was m.. )h ind the. next. "turning; 'm'ly
they posted themselves. with :d their three, ill the plantation of the
hm men. to wait t'ur their enininux As they gllt'nH'tl, su it hnppem
ed ~ these new invmll'l's. leaving their mum>>: at, the east end of the.
Hand. emue mnzing :ilung the phure. direelly towards the phtee, tn
the numher nl' hm hundred and titty, us nezir as 0111' men euuld
Judge. thtr army was hut. small. indeed: hnl that "llit'll was worse,
they hzul nut :ums lbr all their numher neither. 'l'l ~ rhulmeemtnt,
it M'enis. ntm-d thusw lirst. us to men, seventeen Sp' 'ds. lire lin-
giuhmen. old Friday. 01' Fri f5 l'ulher, the three slaves iken with
the "mm-n. "it" proved very faithful, and three other Shires, "hu
li\ed with the Spaniards. 'l'o :u'ln these, they hnd eleven lltut'ht'ls,
lite Fidel>>. three. lim-liug-pieees, the inuskets 0r fun-ling iieees
\t lileli iii-re tnLen hy me hunt the ntttllnultS' s 'lunenwhmn l l't't need,
tnn :i\\'l\!|l.\'. :md three uhl hulln'nls.

'l'u their >hu'es they did not gire either musket 0r l'nse, hut they
had every one. :I hulherd. or :t in": btull', like. u qntu'tetwstnll', with a
St' n >pike ol' irun tiistened into eneh end of it, and by his side it
hutehi't :illSU every tlllt' ul' our melt htul :i hutehel. Two of the women
('nltltl not he prevailed upon but they "'Unlll mtneintnthe light,
and they had hmrs and arrows which the Spaniards had taken l'rum
the smug-es u hen the lirst net inn happened, \tllll'll 1 have spoken ul',
"here. the lndizin:~ l'unghl with one mmtherg and the. women had
lutehets tom

'l'he Spaniard gm'ernnr, whom I described so often, commanded
the. "huh" and Will .\lki s, whit. thmlu'h :i drendl'ul t'ellnw t'nr
\t'ielu-dne . was :1 must during, hold tellmt; emninunded under him.
The >zu 's t'llllll' turnnrd like lions; and our men, \rhit'h was the
\mrst of their title. hzid nu advantage. in their situatiun -, only that.
Will Atkins, who nnw proved 3 must. usel'nl fellow, With six men,
was llitttlt'fl just. behind a small thiehet ol' bushes, as an advanced
guard, with orders to let the. lirst ul' them pass by, and then lire him
the middle of them. and us soon "5 he had tired, to make his retreat
zu lllllll)ll' .is he could runnd :1 part ml the \mud, and so come. in he-
hind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thiekct. ut' trccs ho-
lnre them

When the savages came on, they run struggling :ihnnt- every way
in heaps, nut ol~ nil nmnner n!' order. and Will Atkins let. about fifty
of them pass hy him; then seeing; the rest enmc in a vcrv thiek
thrung, he orders three of his men to lire, having loaded their
nqui-ts with six or seven hullels a piece. :ihnut as hi" mt hn'gc
pistol bullets. llmr many they killed or \rulnuled they new nut,
but the emislernntion and surprise was inexpressihlc anmng the
savages; they were frightened to the. lust. degree to hear such a
dreadful ituim'. and see their men killed. and uthers hurt. but are
nuimd) that did it ; when, in the middle of their l'righl, \lill Athins
and his other three lot fly again among the thickest of them , and in
less than a minute the lirst. three being loaded again, gave them a
third vollev.

llad Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
the): had tired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the
body been at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been ell'ectually routed: for the terror that was among
them came rineipally from this, viz. that. they were killed by the
gods with lllllldt'l' and lightning, and could s.e nobody that hurt
them; but. Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat;
some of the savages who were at a distanee spying them, came
upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at tlu'm
illst). two or three times, anti killed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they eould, yet. they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow-I'lnglishmen, with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most 'allant. fellow, aml fought most desperately,
killi :1 tire of them wit 1 his own hand, having no weapon but one
of "w armed stares and a hat ehet.

()nr men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a. risinfr ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after living three volleys upon them, retreated also;
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that
though above fifty of them were killed. and more than as many
wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our inert, fearless of
danger. and shot their arrows like a crowd; and it was observed
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made
out rageons by their wounds, and fought- like madmem

When our men retreated, they left. the Spaniard and the English-
man that. were killed behind them; and the savages, when they
came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner,
breaking their arms. legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages; but lindiwr our men were gone, thev did

a . . .
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a mm, which

is. it seems, their custom. and shouted twice, in token ?'of their
rietory; after which they had the morlilieation to see several of
their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had them march and charge again all together at once; but the
Spaniard replied: "Senhor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men light; let them alone till morning; all the wounded men will
be still' and sore with their wonnds,and faint with the loss of blood :
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was good;
but Will Atkins replied merrily: "That. is true, senhor, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would go on while I am warm."

" Well, Scnlior Atkins," says the Spaniard, " you have behaved gal-
lantly. and done your part; we will fight. for you, it you cannot
('otue on; but i think it best to stay till morning." So they
waited.

ltut as it. was a clear moonlight night . and they found the savages
in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and it great,
noise and hurry among tltem where they lay, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night, especially if thev could come
to give them but one volle before they were diseovered, which they
had a fair importunity to ill); for one of the Englishmen, in whose'
quarter it was where the tight began, led them round between the
woods and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they
eaun- so near where the thickest. of them lay, that, before they were
St't'll or heard, eight. of them tired in union;' tlu-m, and did dreadful
execution upon them; in half a minute more, eight others tired
alter them, pouring in their small shot. in such quantity, that.
alnnnlauee were killed and wounded; and all this while they were
not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.

'l'he Spaniards el urged again with tlle utmost. expedition, and then
divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them altogether. They had in each body eight persons. that. is to
say,tn1-nty~two and the two women. who, by the way fought. des-
perately. 'l'hey divided the tire-anus Ct nally in each party, and so
the halherds and stares. They would tare had the women ken.
back. but they said they were resolved to die with their husbzuus.
Having thus formed their little army, they marched out. from among
the. trees, and came up to the teeth ol| the eta-my, shouting and
hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood altogether, but
were in the. utmost. contusion, hearing the noise of our men SllOltl-lllf'
from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had
seen us: for as soon as we eznne near enough to be seen, some
arrows were shot. and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dangerouslr; but our men gave them no time, but, runninv up to
them, tired among them three 'ays, and then lull in with tie butt.-
euds of their muskets, their swords, armed stares, and ltatchets, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
sereantiue: and howling, tlying to save their lives which way soerer
they could.

Unr men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two tights about one hundred and eighty of them;
the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the
woods and over the hills, with all the speed tear and nimble feet
could help them to; and as we did not, trouble ourselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they hutded,
and where the' ~ canoes lay. But their disasters were not. at an end
yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
so that. it. was impossible for them to go oll'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them 011' ; am some of them were even
flushed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.

()nr men, tliotwli glad of their \ ietory, yet got. little rest that night;
but having rel'resfhed themselves as well as they could, they resolved
to march to that part of the island where the savages \vcre lled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the
place where the tight had been, and where they found several 01 the

 

poor creatures not quite dead, and yet ast reeoverin life; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous min 3; for n t y great man,
though obliged by the law of bahle to destroy his enemy, takes no
delight in his misery. However. there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savt res, who were their servants,
dis etched these poor creatures with their hatchcts.

Kt length, they came in View of the place where the more miser-
able remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared ahOut
a hundred still: their posture was generally sittm u on the

round, with their knees up towards their mouth. and t 0 end put
tween the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.

When our men camekvithin two musket-shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two lnuskcts to be fired, without ball, to
alarm them: this he did, that by their countenance he might know
what to expect, viz. whether. they were still in heart to fight, or
were so heartily beaten as to be :iispiritcd and discouraged, and so
he might manage accordingly. This stratagcm took; for as soon as
the sav: "es heard the first gun and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet at the greatest consternation ima-
ginable; and as our men advan ed swiftly toward them, they all
ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before: and thus
they ran up the hills into the country.

21 B242 AIHI'IIZN'I'UIIIIZS IIII IIIIIIINSIIII' (TIII'S'IOE.

M IIHI OHI' "W n IIIIII IIIIIII 'II r. II IH'I' IIIII II'I'HIIIIII' II:IIl III-I'II calm, and
IIII'I II III :III "Ulll' IIII. 'I_v III :IIII , IIIII IIIII' IIIII IIIII. IIII II IUHSIIIIT III:II
IIIIs IIII .IlIl III'IIIJII)Iy IIIII'I' IIIIIIII IIH' 0| III-IIIII III IIIIIII ('UIHIHj" IIII
III snI-II IIIII IiIIIIIIs :I.II IIIII. III III: I'IIstIIII III', :II. II ILNI II) ('UIIH. sII
III IIII. IIIIII SII III'IIIII. IIs IIIIIIIII qIIiIII (IIMIIIIII' IIIIII and, and sInI'I'II.
IIII III \\ III Alkiiis IIIII'IIIIIII',II \IIIII, IIUI\\IIII.'~'IIUI(I1|\_L: |II:I \IIIIIIIII.
IIII'. II. IIIII :II> IIIIII IIII III III'IIIIII IIII. III \I VOIIIISI IIUI III IIIIN II:I.IIII~ IIIS
IIIIIiI II III , III I .IIIII IIIII :IIIIIIIII. II'II IIII II "'II' IIIII, IIIIII II:IIp III III' "'I\\'I1 II
"III III :IIIII 'lII- Ir IIIIIII.\ 'IllIlII .\'II III I'IIIIIII IIII III III IIIII IIIIIIIIII II_I' III I'\I r
IIIIII'IIIII; IIII IIII-II III iIl I_I_;IIII IIII i>II IIIII.

'l'IIIIv I-II: IQIIIIIII II II" IIIIIIIII IlIi.\; :IIIII SHIIII' \\'I'l'('. .{JIIIHII ' .I'IIr
III u III IIIIIIIIIII' IIII' \I'I'II'IIIIIIa III III IIII' IIIIIIIIN' :IIIII IIIII IIII rI III \-
III-II. .IIII. IIIIII .III IIIIII \IIIHIIII IlllVl' IIII-III II) IIIIUI IiLI: \IIIII IN'ILNIS III:
IIIIIIIII III inI- IIIII IIIIIIIIII IIII'II' IIII~IIII\\1|II(I III'III IIII'II' |Il.IIIII1IIIII
('UIIIIIIIIEIIII I'iIIIII, :III IIIIII' I.IIIII' "(HIS III bIIU\llI, :IIIII, III slIIII',I. III:
rII'IIIIIIII III :I. "III. III IIIIIIIIIIIIIII III>II'-I Iss.

"ill I\IkiII:I IIIIII IIIIIIII IlIIIy II III IK'III'I' IIIIIII III IIII \IiIII :I III":-
IIII-Il IIIIIII IIIIIII IIIllI II IIIIIIIIIIIII Indium; III II 33 lII('\ IIIIIsI III \IIHV
IlII'II II()1|[.\',\I) IIIIIy IIIIIsI. III'HIUY Illl' IIIIIn, III~ IIII. :III III IIII III IIII.
\II'III'II III l-III'IIIM' lI'I I'S. JII II \IIIIII. IIII. hIIUWI'II IIII III IIIII III (' in OI II,
SH IIIIIIII\II1:|I- IIIII'IIII I :IIIII! iIIIII II; \l) IIII-I' IIIIII III \II.Ik iIIIIIIII.
(:I. IIII) IIiIII IIII' IIIIIIIs, :IIIII I__:I- IIIIII; sIIIIII- I|I_I \IIIIIII IIIIIII IIIIII' II'HIII II
III':III I)"'II, I'IIII IIIIII III :IIII SIIIIII III IIII'III IIII IIII- IMII IIIII' IIII'II- sII
IIII. IIIIII IIIII IIIIIIIII IIIII IIIIIII; Ill|\\"'",(\(l IIIII IIIII so IMIIIII'II II|I'
IIIIIIII' IIIIII III. II il. 50"" III: IIIII lIIII 'IIl IIIIIII. IIIi' SIIIIIIIIIiIIg III "III SI :I :Is
I)<|'II.\'. \\ III II IIII' IIIIIIIIIIs. :uV II III! IIII') \\"I II- IIIIIIIII SIIIIH' III IIII III
I':IIIIII I'IIIIIIIHI" IIIII III IIII' \\|H)(].\'.1IIIII IIIIIIIiIIg :Is III .'|I' :Is IIIIIy PUIIIII
III IHU' IIIIIII. IIIIIIIII'II IIIIII II and ('III'II' . "()II (LI, " :IIIIIIIIIIIIIII" :IIIII
<II.IIII lllIIIl' IIIII'IIs III' IIII'II' I:IIII:II:II,,:II IIIIII II IIIIIII: III IIII' IIIIIII'III
IIIIIIIIIIsIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIy III; IIIII :Is IIIIIII III:IIIII IIIIIIIII :IIsIIII'IIs IIIIII
sIIIIIIIIII IIII ,II II: Is II: .y In IIIIIII I'.I;I: IIIII IIIII'_I IIIquI II III IIIIIII IIIII -Ir
Inn-II." \Illl'l II. .IIIII I.:lIII ("I") IIIIIIIII III- gIIIIII. IIIIII IN'\"'l| IIIIIIIII. LIIII'C
:quIIII. IIIII IIIIr IIII II \IIIIII IIIIII SI'IIISIII'II III II IIII \' II III III) II:III III
III'ISI'I'VI' IIII-IIISII'IIIIs 01' In>> '1II'II IIIIIiI IIIIIIIIIy, INII II'IIIII'IIIIIIII I0 III-
\I'III. um "I IlII<II pIIIIpIII IrIIIII (III-r I_:IIIIII_: IIIIIIIII :II.::IiII-, III III IIIIIIIII
IIIIIIII IIIIs III II II III'I II SI) much :I.\' IIIII' III IIII III and IIIII-k IIIIII "III 'II
IIIIIIIIII') III III" IIII'. sIIIry, IIIII IIIIIIIIII \\':L\ IIIIIIIIIII'; SI) IIIIII. IcIIIII:
IIII III I\III)\\' III II IIIIIy sIIIIIIld IIIII II IIII :IIIv IIIIIrII'. "III" [III In II'IIrk
IIIIII IIII II IIIIIIIIIIs , :IIIII IIII IsIIIIII-II I-'Ill III cw. Iy OIN' III;II.I1II- sIIIrIII III II
IIIII III-sIrIIII-II III IIIIII- :II IIIII \If'Ill hf II'IIII-II IIIIIs sum; 5 I'IIISI'II :I
IIiII.- Inns III in "It. \VIIUIIS \I'IIiI'II Ulll' 'IIIIIIIIII III IIIIII IIIIIIII CIIHIII'II,
:II'I'III IIIIII II IIIIII l':III :IIIIMII. IIII' isI:IIIIl IIkII (IIMI'CIC'IIII IIIIIII. .IIII III II
III 1| II-IIIII Ulll' H]! II IliIl IIIIt rIIzIIIII IIUIOW :II III'sl IIbzII. lo do IIIIII
IIIIIII. \III IIiII IIIII I I..!IIIi'IIIIS IIIIII :Ill IIIIIII IW'HIIIIII'I', IIIIIIsiIIIIr
III II IIIIIII: IIII'I' iII:IIIII IIII)SI' IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIS III \l'tllII' IIIIII' onghl II)
III I' kIIpI :I IIIIIIII IIIIII'II :II. IIIII s:IIIIII. IIIIIII. IIIIIIII IIII'II' IIIuIIIatII us;
[In II1\)lI"Il, it Is IIIIII Hm I' had (IIII'CII IIII': .'I_I LIIcII cattle, ile the
lndians did not. find out. their main retreat, I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up tlieOvines
and gra res, being just then almost ripe, and did our .men an inesti~
inable damage, though to themselves not one fartlnng's worth of
St'l'Vl'lll.

'l'hough our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they we - in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
dnuu; tor as) they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they
found them single, so our men din-st. not go abroad single, for fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had
no weapons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had they any edge-tool or
wen ion uniting them.

'l'ie extremity and distress they were reduced to was great and
huh-ed deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought

_ .umstant'es by thorn; for though their retreats were
preservetl, yet. their )l'OVlSlOll was destroyed, and their harvest
Spllllt d ; and what to do, or which way to turn themselves they knew
not. The only ret'uge they had now was, the stock of cattle they
haul in the valley by the cave, and some little eoru that grew there,
and the plantation of the three lingliehnien, Will Atkins and his
comrades, who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed
by an arrow. which struck him on the side of the head, just under the
n triple. so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable,
that. this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave
it uh hi. hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
ntine was at. any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and
rit-e, and got into the manner of planting and raising,r my corn and
in_\' tame cattle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves
upon the island, whu-h would devour everything they could come at,
yet (-ould be haldly eoine at themselres.

\l'lu-u they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
eouehuh-d was, that. they would, it" possible, drive them up to the
farther part of the island, south-west, that if any more savages came
on shore tlu-v might. not lind one another; then that they would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
mine at, till they had reduced their number; and if they could
at last tam: them. and bring them to anything, they would 'zive
:hciu vorn, and teach them how it plant, and live upon their daily
labour

In order to this. they so followed them, and so terrified them With
tlu'irguus. that in a few days, it" anv of them fired a gun at an lndian,
if he did not hit him, yet- hc would fall down for fear; and $30 dread.

B '-
fully frightened they were, that they kept out of sight farther and
farther; till, at. last, our men following them, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or
hollow places so nun-h, that it. redueed them to the utmost misery
l'or want of food ; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods
without any hurt, absolutely starved to death. '

" hen our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
entleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met. with in mv
do; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what the)r meant, so far as to be able to act
an interpreter, and go among them, and see if they might be. brought
to some conditions that; might; be depended upon, to 'szm: their tires
and do us no harm.

 

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being
weak and half-starved. one of them was at. last surprised and made it
prisoner. He was sullen at. first, aud'wnuld neither eat- nor drink;
mt. finding himself kindly used, and vietuals given him, and no vie.
leuec offered him, he at last grew tractable. and came-to himself.
They brought. old Friday to him, who talked ol'ten with him, and told
him how kind the others would be. to them all; that they would not,
only save their lives, but would give them part of the island to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction that thegr would kcepiu
their own bounds, and not come beyond it to in'urc or prejudu-e
others: and thal they should have corn given them to plant and
make ll. grow for their bread, and some bread given them for their
present subsistence; and old Friday bade. the fellow go and talk with
the rest of his C(Jllllll')'lllt'll, and MK! what. they said to it; assuriuo
them, that if they did not agree immediately, they would be ad
destroyed.
anvexrenrzs or komxsox cunsoe. 245

The poor wreiehes, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the preposal at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards
on "we Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to
cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came
to be victunls and directions, they never came out of their bounds:
8111M t ere they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see
t em.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and they
soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck of
land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying lain
towards the sea. before them, on the southeast corner of the isiimd.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half bread, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four
klliVCs; and there they lived, the most subjected, innocent creatures
that ever were heard of.

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tran uillity with respect
to the savages, till [ came to revisit them, w 'ch was about two
years after; not but that, now and then, some canoes of savages
Came on shore for their triumihal, unnatural feasts; but as they
were of several nations, and per ups had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any search or
inquiry after their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been
Very hard to have found them out.

Thus, I think, 1 have given a full account of all that happened to
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indiana
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently
went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them. because they would not have their settle-
ment betrayed again. One thin was very remarkable, viz. that they
tau rht the savages to make wic er-work, or baskets, but they seen
out id their masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious
things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
e "es, cupboards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
mi abundance of other thin . being very ingenious at such work,

when they were once put int c way of it.
21'
ROBINSON HEAR}!!! FROM THE SPANIARDS THE DIFPICUIJ'IES THE!
MAD 1'0 EKCOUNTEK--HE PUltNlSllES THE PEOPLE WITH TOOLS,
ETC--TUB ennncn BOULESIASTIC.

II M'ING thus given an account of the colony in general. and pretty
much of my live runagnte Englishmen, I must. say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.

1 had a great. many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that.
Country; that they were a poor, miserable, and dejected handful of
people; that. if menus had been put into their hands, yet they had so
nbzunloned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of
their misfortunes, that they thou ht of nothing but. starving. One
of them, a grave sensible man, to d me he was convinced they were,
in the wrong; that it was not the port of wise men to give them-
selves up to their misery, but. always to take hold of the helps which
reason otl'ered, as well for present support as for future deliverance:
he told me that grief was the most senseless insignificant passion in
the world, for that it re arded only things past, which were gene-
rally impossible to be reezfiled, or to be remedied, but had no views
of things to come, and had no share. in anything that looked like
deliverance, but rather added to the ntlhct ion than proposed a
remedy ; and upon this be. repeated 11 Spanish proverb, which though
I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yctl
remember I made it In") an English proverb of my own thus :

In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.

[lo-ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made- in my solitude; mv unwenried application, as he called it; and
how I had made a condition which in Its circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than their:
was even now when they were all together. He told me it was
remarkable that. Englishmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than on people he ever met With; that their unhappy
nation and the ortuguesc were the worst men in the world to
struggle with misfortunes; for that their first step in dun ('J'S, after
the common efforts were over, was to despair, lie own un er it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
escu c.

lilold him their case and mine difi'ered exceedingly; that they
were cast upon the shore Without necessaries, without supply of food,
or instant sustenance till they could provide it; that, it was true, I
but this disadvuntnve and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the
supplies I had providentially thrown into m hands, by the-unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was sue: a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I
had done. " Senhor," says the Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been
in your case, we should never have got half those things out of the
ship, as you did; nay," says he, " we should never have found means
to lave got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone l" Well, I desired him to abate his complaint,
and go on with the history of their comin on shore, where they
landed. He told me they unhappily laude at a place where there
were peo le without. provisions; whereas had they had the common
sense to iave lit 0!? to sea again, and gone to another island a little
farther, they ind found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were

tensions, though no ople; that is to say, that the Spaniards of

'rinidad had trequent y been there, and had filled the island with
goats and ho at several times, where they had bred in such multi-
tudes, and w let-e turtle and senfowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, thou h they had found no
bread; when-ens here, they were only sustaine with a few roots and
herbs, which they understood not and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparinoly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn canmbals,
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country.' .

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civdise
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retortcd it
upon them, as hnjust, that they who came therefor assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them food; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the
instructors of others but those who could live without them. '

They gave medismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes the were many days without food at all, the
sland they were upon eing inhabited by a sort of savages that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in the
same part of the world ; and yet they found that these savages were
less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of
food. Also they added, they could not but see with what demon-
strations of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God
directs the events of things in the world; which, they said, appeared
in their eireinusianees; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barrenness of the "ountry where they were, they had
searched aft er a better to live in, they had been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave an account tow the savages whom they lived
among expected them to go out with them into their \vars ; and, it
was true, that. as they had tire-ares with them had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition. they should have been serviceable
not. only to their friends, but hate made themselves terrible both to
friends and enemies; but. being nithout powder and shot, and yet in
a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars, so when they came into the field of battle,
they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves; for
they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the
savages gave them ; so they eould do nothing but stand still, and be
wounded with arrows, till they eame up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then. indeed, the three halbeuls they had were of use to them:
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with
those halherds, and sharpened stieks pul. into the muzzles of their
niuskets; but. that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts. whose names they knew not,
and these covered them from the arrows of the savages; yet, not-
withstanding those, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken )risoner,
that is to sav, the. Spaniard when: 1 had relieved: that at first they
thought had been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they
were come to themselves, all but him who the' then ht had been
dead; and then they made their way with their ether and pieces,
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victo
over their enemies, but to their :reat sorrow, because it was wit
the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding him alive,
carried otl', With some others, as I gave an account before.
They described most afi'eehonately how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who, they
thought, had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz.,
by wild men; and yet how much more they were surprised
wilh the account he gave them of his errand, and that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able, and had
humanity enough, to contribute to their deliverance.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
I sent them, and at the appearance of leaves of bread, things they
had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; how often
they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a. rcvivin cordial it- was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things I rad sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat
and pilots, to carry them own to the person and place from whence
all these new comforts came, ut it was impossible to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally drivmtfir them to unbecoming
extravagancos. they had no way to describe t em, but by telling me
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them
through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, ol hers be stark
mad, and others immediately faint. 'l'his discourse extremely efi'ected
me, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father,
and the poor people 5 ecstasy when 1 took them up at sea after their
ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the ship when he found
himself delivered in the place where he expected to wish; and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years' captivity,ilfound a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All these things made
me more sensible of the relation: of these poor men, and more
affected with it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the con-
dition in which I left them. It was their opinion, and mine too,
that they would be troubled no more with the savages, or, if they
were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as
many as before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered
into ascrious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of
them oh, so it would not be just to carry oif some and leave others,
who, perhaps, would be unwilli fr to stay if their strength was
diminished. 0n the other hand, told them I came to establish
them there, not to remove them: and then I let them know that I
had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had
been at a. reat charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for tieir convenience as their defence; and that I had such
and such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular here: try employments which
they were bred to, being at rs, to assist them in those things
in which they were at present. in want.

The; were altogether when I talked thus to them; and before 1
deliv 'ed to them the stores 1 had brought, I asked them, one by
. one, if the),r had entirety forgot and buried the first. animosities that

' had been among them, and would shake lnmds with 01:6~ another, and
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there
might be no more misunderstandings and jenlousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said,
they had met with affliction enough to make them all sober, and
enemies enough to Make them all friends; that, for his part, he
would live and die with them; and was so far from designing any-
thing ugainstlhc Spaniards, that he. owned they had done nothing
to him hut what his own mad huumur made necessary, and what. he
would have done, and perhais worse, in their e: e; and that he
would ask them pardon, if ] tesired it, for the foolish and hrutish
things he had done to them. and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and ninon' with them, and would
do anything that. lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to liugland, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years.

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and exclu-
ded \\'il] Atkins and his two countrynu-u for their ill conduct, as
they had let me know, and they appealed to me for the necessity
they were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself
so bravely in the. great. fight they had with the savages, and on
several oeeasions since, and llflll showed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest. of them all, that they had for-
gotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them:
and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by eonnnitting the
connnand to him, next to the governor himself; and as they had
entire confidence in him, and all his countrymen, so thev acknow-
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that
holiest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most:
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that
they would never have any interest separate from one nuot her.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we up.
pointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a
s dendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
s tore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four
pieces of pork, out. of the ship's provision, with our punchhowl and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
French claret, and ten bottles of English heer; things that neither
the szuiiards nor the English had tested for many years, and which
it may be supposed, they were very glad of. The Spaniards added
to our feast live whole kids, which the cooks roasted: and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen,
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did with
their salt meat from On board.

After this feast, at which we Were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods: wherein that there might be no dis-
pute about dividing, I showed them that there was a suflicienc for
them all, desiriugt at they might all take an equal quantity oly the
goods that were for wearing: that is to say equal when made up.
As, first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up
six; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what,
as I may say, they had [on since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted t re thin English stuffs, which I mentioned
before, to make every once light coat like afrock, which I judved
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered that
whenever they decayed they should make more, as they thought lit:
the like for pumps, shoes, stockings. hats, &c.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenanres of all these oor men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how we 1 I had furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that having such a comcspondent as I
was in so remote a part of the world, it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place: and they all voluntarily
engaged to me not to leave the three without my consent.

l'hcn I presented to them tic people I had brought with me,
narticulurly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most necessar people; but, above all, my general artilicer,
than whom they cou d not name anything that was more useful to
them: and the tailor, to show his coneem for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt, the
first thinwhe did; and, which was still more, he tauuht the women
not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made them
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, l scarce need mention how useful they were;
for they took lo pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made
them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers,
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But, to let them
see how nature made artiticcrs at first, I carried the car uters to see
Will Atkin's baskebhouse, as I called it : and they hot 1 owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything
so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind: and one of them,
when he saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me,
"I am sure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need no-
hhig but give him tools."

Then 1 brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows or
ploughs ; and to every separate lacea pick-axe, a crow, a broad-use,
and a saw; always appointing 1 lat as often as any were broken or
worn out, they should he supplied without grudging, out of the
general stores that I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers,
Chisels, knives, scissors. and all sorts of iron-Work, they had with-
out tale, as they required: for no man would take more than he
wanted, and he must be a fool who would waste or spoil them on
any account. whatever; and for the use of the smith, 1 left two tons
of tmwrought iron for 11 suppl .

My magazine of powder an arms which I brought them was such,
even to irofusion, that they could not but rc'oice at them; for now
they could march as 1 used to do, with a mus et upon each shoulder,
if there was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they
could not miss, it they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also; she was a sober, well educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inotfensively, that every one
gave her a good word; she had indeed an uJia my life with us, there

eing no woman in the ship but. herself, hut she bore it with
patience. Al'tera while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so
fine a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither business or acquaintance in the East ladies, or reason for
making so loaf.v a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leaVe to remain on the
island, and be entered amonfir the family, as they called it. I agreed
to this readily ; and they had>a little plot of ground allotted to them,
where then had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a.
basket-work pallisadoed like Atkins's, ad'oining to his ptantntion.
Their tents were contrived so that they had each of them it room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay
their goods in, and to eat and drink in And now the other two
Englislnucn removed their habitation to the same place; and so the
island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the lirst servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital eitv; and
where Ila-y had so enlarged and extended their works, as well under
as on the outside 01 the hill, that they lived, though perfectly
concealed, yet [all at large. Never was there such a little city in a
wood, and so hid, in any part of the world: for l verily believe a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, it" they
had not, known tnerc was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it,
they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close and grew so last woven one into another, that nothing,r but
cutting: them down tirst could discover the place, ('XCC)t the oul

two narrow entrances where they went. in and out cool he fouu
which was not. very easy : one of them was close down at. the water's
edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice,
as l have already formerly described it; and they had also a large
wood thick-planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre,
which grew apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily to be dis-
covered, to enter on that side.

The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Englishmen, I mean those 1 had left. there, with their
wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishmen that was killed; the voting man and
the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of her hefore we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them ; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man Io them, especially as a gun smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I called Jaek-of-all-trades, who was in him-
'sclf as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, hat a very merry fellow; and before I went away '
the French ccclcsiastic that I had hrought with me married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before.

Having now done with the island, I left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing Condition, and went on board my ship
again on the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five days amen
them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island rill g
came to remove them, I promised to send them further relief from
the Bruits, if I could possibly find an opportunity; and, particu-
larly, I promised to send them som'e cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and
cows; as to the two cows and calves which I had brought from
England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage; to kill
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.

 

22
ENCOVXTER WtTll' S.\\'A\G|".S AT SEA-FRIDAY'S DEATH--ROBINSON
FINDS HIS FORMER l'Alfl')ER I) THE BRAZILS--sAlLS FOR THE
EAST ISBN-ZS.

THE next day, giving them a salute of fire guns at. parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about.
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarknlile in our passage but
this : that about three days after we had sailed, heing lwealmcd, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
bay or golf on the land side, we were driven something out. of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out: " Land to the east-
ward; " but whether it. was the continent 01' islands we could not
tell b any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sen
suioot- i, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it. were, (-ovezed
towards the land wit h some'hing very hlaek. Our ('hiel' mate,
going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them wflh a
)erspt'etirc, cried out it. was an army. I could not imagine what
he meant. by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
sir," says he, " don't. be angry, for 'tis an army, and u fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are coming towards us apnea."

I was a little surprised, then, indeed. and so was my ne drew the
captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island,
and having never been in those seas he'ore, that. he could not. tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times. \rr should all he
devoured. I must confess, considering we were hemlnn-d, and the
current set strongr towards the shore, I liked it the worse ; however,
1 bade them not. he afraid, lth bring the ship to an anchor as soon
as we came. so near us to know that we must eng: we them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on space towards us:
so 1 gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails: as for
- the savages, I told them the had nothing to fear but fire, and there-
fore the should get their ats out, and fasten them, one close by
the has , and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men in the boats
might be ready with streets and buckets to put out any fire these
savages would endeavour to fix to the outside of the shi .

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came
up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians:
though my mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their num-
ber, yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and
twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,
some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, the seemed to he struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sigrt which doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us; they came boldly up, hOWevcr,
very Iu'nr to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we
called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them, wit::out
our desi ring it: for live or six of the large canoes came so near
our long oat that our men beckoned with their hands to keep them
back, which they understood very well, and went back, but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from these boats, and
one of our men in the long-heat was very much wounded. However,
I called to them not to fire by any inenns; but we handed down
some deal hoards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of
the savages, if they should shoot aaain.

About half an hour afterwards 1 my all came up in a body astcrn
of us, and so near, as that \- 3 could easily discern what they were,
though we could not tell their design; and I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a short time more they rowed a lntle
further em to sea, till they came so near that they could hear us
meek: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
8 rould shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; but
bciwr so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon
the deck, mid call out aloud to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which, accordingly he did. Immediately afterwards,
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him,
00m fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my incxpressihle grief, killed poor Friday,_ no other man bermr in
their sight. 'l'ne poor fellow was shot With no less than twee
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky
nmrksmen they were!
Iwas so enraged til the loss of my old trusty servnnt. and com-
puniou. Ihztt l iilnnetlintely ordered tire guns to be. loaded witlt stnul.
shot. amt four with grent, and gave. them suelt a broadsid - us they
had never h ord in their lives before. to be. sure. They were not
above half 3 enhle length oil when we tired; and ottr gunners in...
their :tim so well that three or four of their canoes wcre overset, as
we lltltl reason to believe, by one shot. only.

I had only resolved to have fired four or live guns at them with
powder only. which I knew would frighten them sufficiently; but
when they shot at us direetly, with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially us they hud killed inv poor Friday, whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed. so well deserved it. I thought
myself not. only just itiuble before God and man, but would have been
very glud if 1 could have upset. every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.

I ean neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded,
at this broadside, but sure sneh a friwht nnd hurry. never was sren
union: sueh a multitude, there were thirteen or fourteen of their
'nnoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a swinnning; the
rest, frightened out. of tlteir wits. scoured awn. - t t as they eonld,
taking but little cure to save those. whose. boats were 5 ilit. or spoiled
with unt' shot; so I suppose that many of them were, ost; nod our
men took up one poor tellow swimming for his life, above an hour
ul't er they were all gone.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
wonhl neither eat nor speak, and we all fnneietl he would sturvc
himself to death; but. I took at way to euro hint; for I made them
take him and turn ltim into the longbont, and make. him believe. they
would toss him into the SCal :1 aiu, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak; nor would that do, but they
really 'llll throw him into the sea. and came :u' ' from him, and
flu n he followed them, for he swutn like a cork id called to them,
in his tongue, though they understood not. one word of what he
said; however, at last. they took him in again, and then he began to
be more tractable; nor did 1 ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again; but, I was the most disconsolate
creature alive. for wont of my man Friday.

And now 1 nmne the poor fellow once more, I must take to last
leave of him: )OOI' hottest F ridnv! We buried him with ad the
decene; and Solemnity possible, hy puttinq him into a Collin, and
throwing him into the sea; end I caused tlicm to tire eleven guns
for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most utt'eetionate servant that ever man had.

We. went now nw with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about:
twelve (l:t_\'$' time we made lunch in the latitude. of tire degrees south
of the line. being the uorth-easterniost. land on all that part of
America. We kept on S. by E. in sight. of the shore four days.
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an
anchor oft the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil l'ntc.

Never ship came to this port that had less business than I had,
and yet it. was with great difficulty that. we were admitted to have
the least. correspondence on shore; nor my partner himself, who
was alive, and made a great figure amen" them, not my two mer-
chant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner remembering
that- 1 had given live hundred moidon-s to the priory of the monas-
tery of the Augustincs, and two hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the nmnaslery, and obliged the prior that then was, to
2'0 to the gori-rnor, and get leave for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more; and this upon condition absolutely capitnlated for, that we
should not other to land any goods out of" the ship, or to carry any
person away without licence. They were so strict with us as to
hurtling any goods, that it was with extreme ditheuh y that I got on
shore three bales of English goods, such as fine hroadcloths, stuffs,
and some linen, which 1 had brou ht. for a present to my partner.

lie was a very generous, 0 en- ear-ted man; though, like me, he
came from little at first; an though he knew not that Iliad the
least design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present
of fresh provisions, wine, and swat-intents, worth about thirty moi-
dores, intending some tohaceo, and three or four tine medals of gold;
hot. 1 was even with him in my present, which, as l have said, con-
sist ed of line broadcloth, Enrrlish stuil's, lace, and fine hollands; also,
I delivered him about. the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and l obliged him to set. up the
sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments Iintcndcd
to my plant at ion.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was alremly framed; and I are the master of her such
instructitms as that. he could not miss tie place; nor .lid he miss
them, as 1 had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo i sent them; and one of our sea-
men, that had been on shore with me there, oli'cred to g with the
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor paniard to
allot him a suflicient quantity of land for a plantation.

The cargo arrived safe, and, as on may easily suppose, was very
welcome to my old inhabitants, w )0 were now, wltl this addition,
between sixty and seventy peolile, besides little children, of which
there were a great many. I found letters at London from them all,
by way of Lisbon, when 1 came back to England, of which I shall
also take some notice immediately.

1 hewe now done with the island, and all manner of discourse
23' 8
about. it : and whoever reads the rest of my memoramlnms would do
well In tum his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not. warned by his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of the like; not: cooled by almost
forty yrars' miseries and disappointments; not satisfied with mis-
pvrity beyond ochctatiou, nor made cautious by afllictions an dis-
tress beyond imitation.

From the Brnzils we made directly over the Atlantic Son to the
Cape of Good llopc, and had a tolerable good voyage, our Culll'sc
generally south-cast, now and then astorm, and some contrary winds,
lsut. my disasters at sea. were at; an end; my future rubs and Cross
vrunts \Vcre to befall me on shore, that, it; might appear the land was
as "'('ll prcpm'Cd to be our scourge as the sea.

()ur mm was 011 a trading voyage, and had a supereargn on board
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
helm; limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party.
at the several ports she was to go to. This was none of In, busi>>
ness, neither did I meddle with it: my nephew, the. captain, and the
EIIpereai'go, adjusting all those things hut-ween them as they thought.
1.
THE SAN/0R8 REFUSE TO SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IS LEFT "Y
IIIS NEL'IIEW, THE CAPTAIN, IN BENGAL.

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh
water, but made the lntbh of our way for the coast of Coromandel.
We were indeed informed that a French mzm-of-wnr of fifty "wins,
and two large merchant ships, were gone for the Indies; and-ins I
knew we were at. war with France, 1 had some apprehensions of
them; but they went their own way, and we heard no more of
l win.

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious dcscri tion of places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, atitudes, trade-
winds. &e.; it is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to
another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
though the pee )le are fierce and treacherous, and very well armed
with'iances aml ows, which they used with inconceivable dexterity,
yet we fared Very well with them it while ; they treated us very civilly ;
and, for some trilies which we gave them, such as knives, scissors,
&c. they brought. us eleven goo fat bullocks of a middling size,
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship's use.

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Cormnandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supercurgo's design lay at the bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outward-hound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.

The first. disaster that befcl us was in the 3qu of Persia, where
five of our men venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf,
Were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or carried
away into-slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue
them, and haul butjust lime to get 011' their boat. I began tozupbt'ntd

s .
them with the just. retrihution of Heaven in this case for cruelty
they haul rxereised on the natives of i\l:ulaga.~car.

lint my fret m-nt preaching to them on tho sttli'oct had worse
conseqtu-nees t Ian 1 expected ; and tho houtswain who had been the
head of that allair, cann- np holdly to nae one time, and told me he
found that. I brought. that. all'air routinnallv upon the stage; that. I
made unjust rrtlrctious upon it. aml had used the men very ill on
that neconnt. and himself In iartieular; that. as l was hut-a pth'St'tlgcl',
and had noeonmmnd in the ship, or concern in the voyagrc, they were
not ohl' 'tl to bear it; that thev did not know but. 1 m' t. have some
ill drsign in my head, and perhaps to call them to at . ~eonnt for it.
w they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
re. ilre to have done with it, and also not to concern myself any
farther with him, or anv of his atl'airs, he would leave the ship; for
he did not think it wa. safe to sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he ltad done, and then told him,
that as to haring'r no command in the ship, that was true; nor did I
exereisr any authority. onl}~ took the liberty of sprakin'r my mind in
things which publicly roneerned us all; and what cont' n l had in
the voyage was none of his business 1 that I was a ('Olh'lt rahle owner
in the ship; in that. claim, I coneeired i had a right to sprak even
farther than I had done, and would not h: accountable to him or any
one else; and began to he a libelr warm with him. lle made but
little reply to me at that. time, and I thought the ail'air had been ore".
We were at. this time in the road at Bengal; and living willing to see
the place, I went on shore with tlte super 'argo, in the ship's boat,
to divert. myself; and towards evening was u'epae'ing to goon heard,
when one of the men came to me, and ttlld me he Would not. have
me tronhlc myself to come down to the boat, for thev had orders not
to carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what asur Wise
1 was in at so insult-at a message; and I asked the man who liade
him deliver that message to me? He told me, the Cockswain. lsaid
no more to the fellow, hut. bade him let. them know he had delivered
his message, and that. I had given him no answer to it.

I illlllil'llliltt'lv went. and found out. the snpereargo. and told him
the storv ; adding, which I presently foresaw, that there would he a
mutiny in the ship: and entr'aled him to go imamdiately on board
the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain ol'it. Butt
might have spared this intelligence, for before i had spoken to him
on shore the matter was ell'reted on hoard. The boalswain, the
gunner. the carpenter, and all the interior otlirt'rs, as soon as I was
gone off in the boat. came up, and drsirrd to s teak with the
('aptain; and there the hoatswain making a long liarangne, and
repeating: all he had said to me. told the ca )tain, in a few words,
that as J. was now goingr pracehly on shore. they were loth to use
any violence with me, which. it" 1 had not gone on shore, thev would
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone; they therefore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve
In the ship under his command, they wouid terl'ortn it well and
faithful] ; but if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no further with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmast.
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which
all the seamen, being got together there, cried out, One and all!
one mid all !

M y nephew, the captain, was a man of s irit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was our rise , on may be sure,
at the thing, yet he told them calmly that to woo d eonstder of the
matter; but that he could do nothing in it till lte had spoken to me
about it. llc used some arguments with them to show them the
unreasonablcncss and injustice of the thing; but it. was all in vain;
they swore and shook hands round before his face, that they would
all go on shore. unless he would engage to them not to sulfer me to
come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them ; told them that l was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justiCe, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to scrrino him as the famous pirate Kidd had
done. who made a mutiny in t tc ship, set. the captain on shore on an
nuinlmhiml island, and ran away with the ship; that. let them go
into what shi they wotud, if ever they came to England a 'n it
would cost tlicm very dear; that the ship was mine, and t at he
Could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship
and the voyage too than disoblioe me so much; so the ' might do as
they pleased; however, he wool go on shore and talk with me, and
invited the boatswain to o with him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter wit: me. Btlt they all rejected the proposal,
and said they would have nothing to do with me an more; and if I
came on board they would go on shore. " Well," sai the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him " So
away he came to me with this account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the cockswain.

I was very lad to see my nephew, 1 must confess : for I was not
without apprc tensions that they would confine him by violence, set
sail, and run aw y with the ship; and then I had been stripped
naked in a remote country, having nothing to help myself: in s ort,
I had been in a worse case than when 1 was alone in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction;
and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one and all, leave
the ship if I was suffered to came on board, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore: I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things on
shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and 1 would find my
way to England as well as I could.

This was :1 heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no
way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the
ship again, and satisfied the men that. his uncle had yielded 10 their
imporiuuily, and had sent. for his nods from on board the ship: so
that the matter was over in'a few iours, the men returned to their
duty, and I began to consider what course I should steer.
MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH WHOM HE MAKES
SOME TRADING VOYAGES -TllEY ARE MISTAKEN FOB. PIRATE:--
VANQUISH THEIR PUBSUEBS--V'OYAGE T0 CEL'IA--RENCONTRE
WITH THE COCEIN CHINESE--ISLAND OP FORMOSA--GULF 0F
NANQUIN--APWEFSIOKS 0! FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF
THE DUTCH.

I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I
may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther of?
from England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Ba'ssora by sea, up the gulf of Persua, and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and
Scandcroon; from thence by sea. again to Ital , and so overland mm
France; and this put together mig it at least e atull diameter of the
globe, or more.

'1 had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Aehin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither Without any concern with the Enghsh East India Com-
pany, so it would be difficult to go from hence without their license,
unless with great lavour of the captains of the ships, or the Company's
lactors, and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment 1 think a man in my circumstances scarce ever met with,
except from pirates runnm away with the ship, and setting those
that would not agree With t err villany on shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways ;howevcr, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk to the
purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me also a wood lodginn' in the house of an English-
woman, where several merchants lortg- , some French, two Italians,
or rather Jews, and one Englislnnan; here I was handsomely enough
entertained : and that I might not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and how to man we myself. 1 had some English goods with
me of value, and a consi emblc sum of money ; my nephew furnish-
ing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that 1 might not be straitenrd whatever
might liap on.

I uiek disposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I originally
int-en ed, {bought here some very good diamonds, which, of all
other things, were the most proper for me, in my present. circum-
stances ; because I could always carry my whole estate about. me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who
lodp'ed with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance
with, came to me one morning. " Count ryman," says he, " I have a
project to connnnnicnte to you. which, as it suits with my thouvhts,
may, for ought I know, suit with yours also, when you shall rave
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and
I by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great deal of money is to he got. If you will mt
one thousand pounds, to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a s lip
here, the first we can get. to our minds ; you shall'hc captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trndingr voyage to China."

I liked this proposal very \vel , and the more because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.

It. was, however, some ume before we eould get; a ship to our
minds, and when we-had got a vessel, it was not. easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors which ave should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three foremastmcn. With these we found we
could do well enough, having I idian seamen, such as they were, to
make up.

\\'c made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Si-nn, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium
and some urrnok; the first a commodity which bears a great; price
mnong the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
there. ln a word, we no)". u to Suslia'n, made a very arr-it voyage
Were eight. months out, out retu.m-d to lien-5.11; and lwus very
well satisfied with my adventure.
In short, we made a very gmd voyage, and I got so much money
by my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty rears ounger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, and song it no further for making any
fortune: but what was all this to a man upwards of threeseore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?

ltut this was not all : I had a kind of impatience upon me to be
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imginable which
way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, roposed another voyage
to me anion the S ice Islands, and to firing home a loading of
cloves from he Mani as, or thereabouts; places, indeed, where the
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Spaniards; thowrh
we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not t to
whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, Ste.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in bringing me to come into it: however, at last, nothing else
otl'ering, an findino that really stirring about and trading, the profit
bein" so great, an , as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it,
nndhad more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
me especially, was the unhappiest part of in life, I resolved on this
voyage too, which we made very successful , touchin at Borneo,
and several islands whose names I do not remember, an came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf; and making near five of one, we really got a great
deal of money.

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch ship from liatavia; she was a coaster, not an
European trader, of about two hundred tons burthcn, the men, as
they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea wit h, he lay by at Bengal; and havmg, it
seems, got money enou h, or being willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave pub 'c notice that in: would sell his ship. This
came to my cars before my new partner heard of it, and I had a
great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him of It. .56
considered awhile, for he was no rush man; but musin some time,
he replied, " She is a little too big; but, however, we w lhave her."
Accordin ly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with the master, we
paid for er, and took possession. When we had done so, we
resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them With those
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they havmg
received not their wages, but: their share of the money, as we after-
wards lesrncd, not one of them was to be found; we inquired muob

aboutzthem, and at length were told that they were all gone together
' 3266 Abram-trans or nontnsou cnuson.

by land to Agra, the great eit y of tire Mogul's residence, and fron.
thence to travel to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia.

Nothingr had so much troubled me a good while as that 1 should
miss tlte optortunit-y of going with them; for such a ramble, I
thought, and in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with tny great design; and
1 should have hotlt been the world and gone homewards too: bttt I
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know
what. sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was,
that. this man they called captain was the gunner only, not. the com-
mander; that they had been a trading toy-age, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed tlte
captain and three of his men; and that after the captain Was killed,
these lttt'lt, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
shi t, which they did and brought. her to Bengal, leaving the mate
out five more men on shore; of whom hereafter.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we. ought; for we never inquired anything of
the seattzen, who would certainly have faltered in their account,
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted themselves; or
one how or other we should have had reason to have suspected
them: but the man showed as a bill of sale for the ship, to one
litnanuel Clostershm'en, or some. such name, for I suppose it was all
a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not con-
tradict him; and withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went
through with our bargain.

We picked up sonte more English sailors here after this, and sonic
Dutch ; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the south-east
for cloves, &e.; that is to say, among the Philippine and Molttcca
isles; and. in short, not. to till up this part of my story with tritles,
when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to last,
six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and
forward with very great success, and \'as now the last year with my
new partner, going in the ship ahovcvntentioned. on a voyage to
China, bttt designing tirst to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, heing by contrary winds obliged to beat 11 and
down a great while in the straits of Malacca, and among the is ands,
we were no sooner got. clear of those difiicnlt seas than We fonud'
our ship had Strung a leak, and we were not able, by all on:
industry, to tind out where it was. This forced us to make some
port; and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
direct; d the captain to put. into the river of Cambodia; for I had
made the English mate, one Mr. 'l'ltoutpsmt,o captain, not being
Willing: to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river lies
ou the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he wa-.-, it seems, i.

umicr's-mutc on board an English East India ship which rode in
5m same .iver, at or near the city of Cambodia; what brought him
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and speaking English,
" Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me, and I to you, hut I ave
something; to tell you that very nearly concerns you."

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first]
had knou ii him, but I did not: " If it very nearly concerns me,"
said I, "and not yourself, what. moves you to tell it to me ?"--"l
mu moved," says he, " by the imminent. danger you are in, and, for
alight l see, you have no knowledge of it."--"I know no danger]
am in," says I, " but. that. my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out;
but I intend to lay her flf'i'tiltnd to-morrow, to see if I can find it."
" But, sir," says he, "leaky or not. leaky, find it or not find it, you
will he wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you
hear what. I have. to say to you: do you know, sir," said he, "the
town of Cambodia lies ahout tit'ieen leagues up this river? and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and
three Dutch."--" Well." said I, "and what is that to me ?"--
" Why, sir," said he, " is it for a man that is upon such adventures
as you are, to come into a port and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I sup-
pose you do not think you are a match for them i'" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at. it, for I could not
conceive what he meant; and I turned short upon him, imd said,
" Sir, I wish you would ex lain yourself; I cannot imagine what
reason I have to be afraid of) any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
shi s; I am no interloper; what can they have to say to me? He
looked like a man half angry and half pleased, and pausing awhile,
but smiling, "Well, sir," says he, "if you think oursclt secure,
you must take your chalice; I am sorry your fate s rould blind you
against good advice: but assure yourself, if you do not, put to sea
immediately, you will the very next. tide he attacked b live long-
hoats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you will7 he hangied
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I thou t,
sir," added he, "I should have met with a better reee tion t an
this, for doing- you a piece of service of such importance. '---" I can
never he ungrateful," said I, "for any service, or to any man that
offers me any kindness; but. it is past my comprehension what they
should have. such a design upon me for: however, since you say
there is no time to he lost, and that. there is some villanous design
on hand against me, I will go on hoard this minute, and put to sea
immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim with-
out. stopping it : but, sir," said I, "shall I go away ignorant of the
cause of all this? Can you give me no further light. into it?"--
" I can tell you but part of the. stor , sir," says he; " but I have a
Dutch seamen here with me, and I helieve I could persuade him to2":5' antes-routes or Romxsox cuusmc.

tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short. of
the story is this, the first. part of wlneh, I suppose, you know well
enough, riz., that you: was with this ship at Sumatra; that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that. you, or some of those that were on hoard with you ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates This is the, sum
01' the story, and you will all he. St ' .ed as pirates, I can aSsure you,
and executed with very little ce :mouy; for you know merchant
ships show but little law to iirates, it they got. them into their
po\\'er."v--~r" Now you speak plain l'iuglish," said I, "and I thank
you; and though I know nothing that we have done. like what you
talk of, for l am sure we eame honestly and fairly by the ship; yet
Seeing sueh a work is doing. as you sly, and that. you seem to mean
honestly. I will be upon my guard."v--" Nay, sir," says he, "do not
talk about being upon your guard ; the host defence is, to he out of
(lllllil't'l': it' you hare any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without fail, at high water; and as you have
a \thole litiC before you, you "ill he gone. too far out before they can
('ouu' down: for they will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by
the (litl'erenee ol' the tide, not rcckonitw the length of the way;
besides, as they are only boats, and not. slii 8, they will not. venture
to Follow you far out to sea, especially if it lows."----" Well, said I,
"you have heen very kind in this; what. shall I do to make
amends?"--" Sir," says he, " you may not be willing to make any
nuu'uds, lit-cause you may not he eonviueed of the truth of it: I
will make an oll'er to you ; I have nineteen months' pay due to me
on hoard the. ship "H. which I eante out. of England in; and the
Dutchman that. is with me has seven month's my due to him; if
you will make. good our pay to us, we will go along with you: if
you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do
convince you that we, have. saved your lives, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave. the rest to you.

1 eonsented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the two men with me As soon as I came to the ship's-side, my
partner, who was on board, came out. on the. quarter-deck, and called
tome, with a great deal of joy, "0 he! 0 ho! we have stopped
the leak! we have stopped the leak!"--"Say you so?" said I,
"thank God; but weigh anchor then immediate] ."--"\'Veigh!"
says he: "what do you mean by that? What. 15 the matter?"
" Ask no questions," said I, "but all hands to work, and weigh
without losing a minute." He was surprised, but, however, he
called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to he got
up; and though the tide was not. quite down, at a little laud
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then 1 cal ed him into the
cabin, and lOltl him the story; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: but. as it took up a great deal of time, before
we had done a seamen comes to the cabin door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. " Chased l" says
I; " by what?"--"Bv live sloops, or boats," says the fellow, " full
of men."--" Very well," said I; "then it is apparent there is some-
thing in it." In the next place I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take
us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another: the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
would live and die with us. Then 1 asked the captain what way he
thought. best for us to manage a fight with them; for resist them I
was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily
that the way was to kee ) them oil with our great shot as long as we
could, and then tire at t rem with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to break open our bulk-heads, or get in u mu us,

The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to
bear fore and aft, out of the steeracc, to clear the deck, and load
them with musket. bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what
name next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats
at a distance, being five large long-boats, following us with all the
sail they could make.

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we couhl see were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up with us; upon which we tired a gun without ball, to intimate
that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a
signal for parley; but they came crowdingr after us, till they came
within shot, when we took in our white ling, they having made no
answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and tired at them with shot.
Notwithstandiiw this, they came on till they were near enouah to
call to them wit a s cakmg trumpet which we had on board; so
we called to them, an bade them keep off, at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern. so as to board us on our quarter; upon which,
seeing the were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
strength tiat followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so
that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we tired tire
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry
away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of the
boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it;
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to
fire at- her in particular. While this was doing, one of the three
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
to the boat which We had disabled, to relieve her, and we could sea

23>>270 Arwenruans or nontxsox eunsoe.

her take out the men: we called again to the foremost boat, and
offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her basiness was
with us; but, had no answer, only she crowded close under our
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run
out his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing,
the men in the boat. shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but
the gunner, getting quickl ' ready again, tired among them a. second
time, one shot of which, thou-r11 it missed the heat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we cou d easily see had done a great deal of
miseluef among them; but, we took no notice of that, were the ship
again, and brought. our quarter to hear u )on them, and firing three
guns more, we found the boat was almost split to pieces; in
particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away;
so they handed her sail inunediately, and were in great disorder.
But to complete their misfortune, our gunner let tly two guns at
them again: where he hit them we Could not tell, but we found the
ooat Was sinking, and some of the men already in the water.- upon
this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close
by our side, with orders to pick up Some of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowning, and immediately Come on board the
ship with them, because we saw the rest. of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as the were on hoard, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and st 00 farther out. to sea ;
and we found that. when the Other three boats Came up to the first,
they gave over their chase. .

Being llms delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be nun-h greater than 1 apprehended,
lresolvcd that we should change our course, and not let anyone
know whither we were goiter: so we stood out to sea, eastward,
quite out of the course of all European ships, whether they were
bound to China or any where else within the commerce of the
Cure lean nations.

"'lien we were at sea, we began to consult. with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this could be; and the Dutch-
man lct us into the secret at once, telling us that. the fellow that:
Sold as the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too
he told us, though I do not. remember it. now, was treacherously
murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, get. into the
woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at length he,
in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he (lut'st.
not. come to that part of the shore where the boat was, h it madeanvexrunEs or uosissoN enuson. 271

shift in the night to lake the outer farther off, and swimming at great
while, at last the shi 's boat took him up.

He then told us tiat he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
mcn belonging to the ship arrived, havin deserted the rest in their
travels, and Wave an account that the fol ow who had run away with
the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were one a
cruising in her; and that they had already taken an Euglis ship
and Iwo Dutch ships very richly laden.

This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we knew
it to be false; 'ct as my partner said very justly, it" we had fulhm
into their han s, and they had such a preposscssion against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or
In hope for any good quarter at their hands; and especially con>>
sidering that our accuser-s had been our judges, and that We could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictatrd,
and an ungovcrned passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we
came, Without putting in at any port whatever; because there we
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were
when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity
of bringing it before the proper 'udges, we should be sure to have
some justice, and not to be hangc first and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt- returninn' to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of ifalacca, and that if the alarm was given, we
should he sure to be \vaylaid on every side, as well b the Dutch of
Batavia as the English elsewhere; that. if we should e taken, as it
were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English.
sailor's o inion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly e taken. This danger a little startle my partner, and all
the ship's company, and we immediately resolved to away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; an pursuing the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispOse ol' the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as
we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our
securit y; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E., keeping above
lilty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. This, how-
ever, put us to some inconvenience; for,'first, the winds, when we
came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadil
against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. an
E.N.E., so that we were 3 Ion while upon our voyage, and we were
but ill provided with victuals gov so long a run; and, which was still
worse, there was some dsn r that those E lish and Dutch ships,
whose boats pursued us, w ereol' some were ound that way, might272 ontcxrrnus or nomxsox Citusot-z.

be ot in licfort', us, and if not, some. other ship bound to China
migtt. have information of us from lhcm, and pursue us with the
same rigour.

1 must confess, I was now \'t'ry unrasy, and thought. mysrlf. in~
cluding tlu~ lab-escape from the luughoats, to have llt't'll in tho must.
daugrrous muditiou hhat ever 1 was in through my past lift'; for
whatt'vor ill circumstances I had been in, l was never pursued for a
thirt' before; nor.had I ever done anything that merit-ed the name
of dishout'st or fraudulent, much lt-ss thiovish; I had chictly bwu
my own enemy, or, as 1 might. rightly ',I had been nobody'a
roomy but my own ; but. now I was embarrassed iu the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though 1 was perfectly inuocrnt, I was in no
condition to make that. imioCt-ncc app -ar; and if 1 had been taken,
it had boon under a sutposod guilt of the worst kind. This made
me wry anxious to nu '(' an csvapt', though which way to do il I
know not, or what. lUl'l or place we could go to. My partnt'r set-mg
mo. thus dejected. though ho was the most conct-rucd at first, l)l'SS::'tll
to t-ucuarage mo, and describing to me tlu- St'\'('l'ttl ports of that.
coast, tuid lllt' he would put. in on the coast of Cochin China, or the
Bay of 'l'ouquiu, intruding to go afterwards to Macao, a town onrc
in posscssion of lllt' l'ortugursc, and where still a great many Citro-
pt-an fantilivs rcsidcd ; and particularly the missionary priests usually
wrut thither, in order to their going forward to China.

Ilithcr thvu we resolrt-d to go; and am-ordiugly, though after a
tt'dious and it'rt'gular course. and very much st railcuod for pruri-
sions, we came within sight. of the roast rcry curly iu the morning;
and upon rctlct'tion on the inst circumstain'vs \t't! wort: in, and tin:
tlangcr if wr had not. 080" ml, wc rosolrt-d to mt into a small riwr,
wltivh, however, had dt'lll | ruough of watt-r for us, and to M'(' if we
Could, vithcr orcrlaud or by the ship's pinnnt'v, cmnc to know what
ships were in any port. tlna't-almuts. 'l'his happy Slt'|' was, intlut-d,
our deliverance; for though We did not immt-diatcly st'c any Euro-
pean ships in the liar of 'l'onquiu, yet tho noxt. morning tht'rt- ramc
mm tho bay two llnlrh ships; and a third. without any colours
5 dead out, but which we l)t'llt'\':'ll to llt' a llutt-hman, passed by at.
almut two h'agurs' lli>lttn('(', "wring for tho Coast of China; and in
tho al'tt'ruuon \\'('lll- by Hm l'lti2iisb ships stcttriug the same course;
and thus \\k' thought wn saw ont'st'lws lxcsct with cnemit-s both one
way and tho othcr. "The place \\'t' worn in was wild and barbarous;
tho pctlplc lllIt'VCS, even by occupation or profession; and though, it
is true, we had not much to suck of thcm, and, wept 2 Hing a few
provisions, cared not how little "1' had to do with lllt'lll. yt't it. was
with much dilliculty that. we kept oursrlvcs from being insulted by
tht-m, scvvral ways. "c "'Cl't', in a small rivor of this country,
within a fcw lcagucs of its utmost limits northward: atnl by our
l)I:-:ll we coasted north-cast, to the. point of land which owns the
grczit llay of 'I'ouquin; and it was in this beating up along t u.- shore
I

that. we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people
WI: were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the
coast, having no correspondence with any other nation, and dealing
only in fish and oil, an such gross commodities; and it may he par-
ticularly seen that. they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of
the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one, viz.
that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it
was not long before we found a spice of their kindness this way,
on the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as l have said,
it was stop led unexpectedly in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by the Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet as
we did not. (ind the ship so perfect ly sound and ti ht as we desired,
we resolved, while we were at this place, to lay er on shore, and
take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom;
and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns and other more
ables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come
at her bottom ; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
came wondering down tothe shore to look at us; and seeing the ship
lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the ofiiside, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so fast on the
ground On this supposition, they came all about us in two or
three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the ship; and if they had found us
there, to have carric us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew nothing of who was governor. '

When they came u ) to the ship and began to row round her, the
discovered us all her at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a. little surprised, could not imagine what their design was;
but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunityto get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there should
be occasion; and it was no more than need: for in less than a quar-
ter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship
was really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
san- her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats; and when we
handed our arms mto the boats, they concluded, by that motion,

T.374 .un'tcs'wuns or nmnxsox (tltl'sOE.

that. we were endeavouring to save some of our goods: upon this
they took it. for granted we all belonged to them, and away they
came directly npun our men, its il' it. had been til a line of battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, lit-gun to be l'rtghtt-tu'd, lor we
in)" but in an ill posture to light, and ('l'lt'll out. to us to know what
they should do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon
thestages, to slip them tlown,and get up the side into the ship: and
bade these in the boat to row round, and venu- on board: and those
few Of Its who were on board worked with all the strength and hands
"'l' had. to brin" the ship to rights; but, however, neither the turn
unnn the stag tur those in the boats eould do as they were ordered,
la-t'nrt- the Cut-hilt Chinese were upon them; and two of their heats
lttlztl'tlt'tl our long-limit, and began to lay hold of the llll'll as their
prisoners,

The ltrst man they laid hold of was an English seaman. a stout,
strong fellow, who, hariug u musket in his hand. never oll'L-red to
lire il, hut. laid it down in the boat, like. a tool, as I thought; but he
understuml his business better than i could teach him, for he grappled
the fan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours. \\ here laking him by the. airs, he beat his head so against the
boat's gunnel, that the fellow (had in his hands; and, in the mean
time, a ltntclnnan, who stood next, taking up the Iltlislet't, with
the hull-end of it. so l:ll(l about him. that he knocked don 11 "VI' of
them who altmnptcd to enter the boat. But this was doing little
towards resisting thirty or forty men, who t 'arless, because ignorant.
of their danger, ln-gan to throw themselves mto the long-hunt. win-re
we had l)ltl- lire men In all to defend it - but the following accident,
which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter living: [It'~'[\:tl't'tl to grave the ontsute ol' the ship, as
well to pay the seams uhvze he had walked her, to stop the leaks,
had got two luttlt-s just let down into the hoot, one lilled with
boiling pitch, and the other with resin, tallow. and oil, and such stall
as the shipwrights use for that. work, and the man that attended
the carpenter had a "mu. iron ladle in his hand, with which he
supplied the men w It) were at work with the hot. stull'; two of
the enemy's men entered Ihe heat inst where this fellow stood,
being.' in the fore-sheets; he imnwdiately saluted them wtlh a handful
of the stall, boiling hot, which so burned and sealded them, being
half naked, that they roared out. like hulls, and enraged with the tire,
leaped both inlo the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out:
" Well done, Jack ; give them some more of it ; " and steppimy lor-
wnrtl himself, takes one of the mops, and (li iping it in the pitc t-pot
he and his man threw it among them so p cutitnlly, that, in short,
of all the men in the three heats tin-re was not one who escaped
living SL'fllliC'l and burned with it, in a must. frightful, pitiful manner,
and made such a howling and crying, that. I never lleal'dn worse
noise; for it is worth ehserriug, for that though pain naturally intakesAin't-:x'ririiizs or nonnson i-ntsoe. 275

all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclama-
tion, and makes noises as ditl'erent from one another as their speech.
I cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the. tone of it; for I never heard
anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that. our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, cxee )l of
that man the. fellow killed with his naked hands, and which E was
much concerned at, for! was sick of killing such poor savage wretehes,
even thoun'h it. was in my own dcl'cnce, knowing ticy came .on
errands wrich they thought just, and knew no better; and that
though it may be u just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature) yet. I thought it was a sad life, when
we must be always obliged to be. killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and, indeed I think so still, and I would even now
seller 11 great. deal, rather than I would take away the life even of
the worst person injuring ine;'and I believe all considering people
who know the value of life ,would be of my opinion, if they entered
seriously into the consideration of it.

But to return to my story :--All the while this was doing, my
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had wit i
great dexterity brour'bt the ship almost. to rights, and having got
the guns into their p uces again, the unner called to me to get our
boat out of the way, for he would rlot fly among them. I called
back again to him, and bid him not oii'er to tire, forthe carpenter
would do the work without- him; but bid him heat another pitch-
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of; but the
enemy was :0 terrified with what they had met with in their first
attack, that they would not come on again: and some of them who
were furthest. oil", seeing the ship swim, as it were, it right, began,
as we suppose, to see their_mistake, and give over Lie enterprise,
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
merry fight, and having got some rice, and seine roots and bread,
with about sixteen bugs, on board, two days before, we resolved to
stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for we
made no doubt but. we should be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough. perhaps more than our pitch-kettle, would dispose of
for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next morning were ready to sail; in the mean time, laying
at anchor at some distance from the shore, we were not. so much
concerned, being now in a lighting posture, as weil as in a sailing
posture, if an enemy had presented. The next day, having finished
our work within board, and finding our ship was pcil'ectly healed of
all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the Bay of
l'onqniii, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what. was to b; known

'1'
concerning the. Dutch ships that. had been there: but. we dnrst not
stand in there, he-ause we had ~een several ships go in, as we
sup msed, but a little. before: so we kept on N 1'). towards the island
of "orutosa. as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or English
merelmnt. ship. as a Dutch or English merchant. ship in the Medi-
terranean is of an Algerine luau-ol-war.

When we were thus got. to sea, we kept on NJ') as if we wouhl go
so the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did that, we.
..i_:ht. not, fall into tho way of the European ships; and then
we steered north, till we came. to the latitude ol' 2'2 deg. 30 min., by
whieh means we. made the island Formosa directly, where we came
to an anchor, in order to get. water and fresh provisions, which the
people. there, who were very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt. very fairly and punetually with
us in all their agreements and bargains, whieh is what. we did not.
had among other people, and ma he owing to Ihe remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planter hero by a lluteh missionary of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have otten observed, viz.
that the Christian religion alwa_\'seirflizes the people and rein: is
their manners, where it is received, wltother it works saving ell'eets
upon tnhent or no.

From theuee we sailed still north. keeping the coast of China at.
an equal distanee till we knew we. were beyond all the ports of
('hiua where. our . rop'an ships usually come; being resolved, if
possible, not to fall into any of their hands. especially in this country;
where, as our circumstances were, we. could not fail of being entirely
ruined.

Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to
put into the first trading port. we should come at ; aml standing in
lor the. shor ~, a hunt. eatue oll' two leagues to us, w ith an old l'ortu-
guese, pilot on board, who knowing-us to be an l'anopeau ship,
came to oli'er his M'ert't', whielt. indeed, we were very glad ol', and
took him on board; upon \ihieh. without asking; us whither we
would go. he disiuissed llle boat he came in, and sent it baek.

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that, I began to talk to him about
carrying us to the gulf ol' Nanquin, wltieh is the most northern part
of the en t, of (thiua. The old man said he knew the gulf of
Nanquin very well, but smiling. asked us what, we would do there?
1 told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
ealieoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c, and so would return by
the same eonrse we come. He told us our best. port had been to
bare. put. in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market
for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have
gin-elmsed all sorts of China goods as cheap as we eould at

anqnnt.

5'01. being able to put. the old man out of his talk, of which he
was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well as merchants, and that we had a mind to see the great city of
Pekin, and the famous Court of the monarch of China. " Why
then " says the old man, " you should go to Niugpo, where by the
river that runs into the sen there, you may go up Within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a mivigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers,
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluiees and gal rs, and
goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and
seventy leagues.

" ll ell," said I, " Senhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of
aniquin, from whence we can travel to Peking afterwards P" lie said
he could do so very well, and that there was a rent Dutch shi gone
up that way just before. This gave me a litt e shock, for a hitch
ship was now our terror; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to light them ;
all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named u Dutch ship; and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of tie Dutch ; I so pose they are not now
at war with your natiouP"--"No," said I, " tliat's true ; but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the
laws of their own country.~" Why," says he, " ou are no pirates;
what need you fear? They will not meddle witli peaceablc merch-
ants, sure."

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered by seine stop in the vessels a pointed by
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest isorder and
confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so;
but that the old man easily perceived it.

" Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in our thoughts
at my talk ; pray be pleased to go which way you t iiuk lit, and,
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service 1 ean."--" Why, senhor,"
said I, " it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go in particular; and I am something more so for
what you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
seas; we are bul in an ill condition to meet with them, for on see
we are but a small force, and are but very weakly mauued.' --" 0,
air," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these sons for fifteen years, except one, which
was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but
you may be assured she is one to the southward; nor was she.a
ship of any great force, or it for the'work. She was not built for
a privalccr, but was run away with h a rcpt-abate crew that was on

board, after the captain and some of is men had been murdered by
24
the Malayans, at. or near the island of Sumatra." W'hat'." said
I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did they murder the
captain ?" " No." said he, " 1 don't. understand that they murdered
him; bu'. as they at'terwards ran away with the ship, it is generally
believed that. they betrayed him into the hands ot the Malayans,
who did murder him; and perhaps they procured them to do it.."-
" Why then," said 1, "they deserve death as much as if they had
done it. tliemselves." " Nay," sars the old man, "they do deserve
it; and they will certainly have it, it' they light it ton any English
or Dutch shi i : for they have all agreed together, 1. mt if they meet
that rogue they'll give. him no quarter."--" But," said Itohim,
" you say the pirate. is gone out of these 3 ; how can they meet;
With him then?"--" \\ hy, that's true," he. " they do say so;
bill be was 's 1 tell you, in the bay of Siam, in Inc river Cambodia;
and w. s discovered there by some Dutchmen wlto belonged to the
ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away with her; and
some English and Dltlt'll traders- beingr in the river, they were within
a little. of taking him: nay," said he, "if the foremost. boats had
had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he, tinding only two boats within reaeh of him, tacked about,
amt tired at those two, and disabled them before the others came up,
and then standing <<ill to sea. the others were not. able to follow, and
so he ot away; but. they have all so exact. a description of the
ship, t tat they will be sure to know her; and wherever they [ind
her they have. vowed to he no quarter either to the captain or sea-
men. but to hautg theta a tap at the yard-arm."--" What 1" said I,
" will they exeeute them right or wrong; hang them first, amt
judne them afterwards ? "----" O sir," says the old pilot, "there is no
need to make. a formal business of it; With such rogues as those; let
them tie. them back to back, and set them a diving, 'tis no more
than they deserve."

I knew l had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no
harm, so that. I turned short upon him: " Well now, senhor," said
l, "this is the. very reason why I would have you carry us up to
Nanqnin, amt not put back to Maeao. or to any other part of the
coantry where the English or Dateh ships come; for be it knew-n to
you, senhor, those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a
iareel of rash, proud, insolent. fellows, that neither know what.
lit-longs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
(led and nature direct, but. being proud ot' their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would net the murderers to punish
robbers; would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine theta guilty without due inquiry : and perhaps I may live
to bring some of them to aeeount for it, when t ey may be taught
how justiee is to be executed; amt that. no man ought to be treated
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and
that he is the mam."
ADVENTURES 0? ROBINSON CRUSOE. 219

With this I told him that this was the vc ship they attacked.
and gave him a full account of the skirmist we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told'him all
the stor of our buying the shi , and how the Dutchmen served us.
I told im the reasons I had) to believe the story of killing the
master by the Mala ans was true, as also the running away with the
ship; but it was al a fiction of their own to suggest that the men
hat turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to
resist them; adding, that they would have the blood of those men,
whom we killed there in just defence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were
very much in the right to go away to the north; and that if he might
advise us, it should he to sell the ship in China, which we mi ht
very well do, and buy or build another in the country ; " and," said in,
" though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your goods hack again to Ben al, or
or" where else." [told him I would take his advice when came
to any port where I could [ind a ship for my tum, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied, I. should meet with customers
enough tor the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would
serve me very well to go back afiain; and that he would procure me
peo do both to buy one and ac the other. "Well but, senhor,"
sai I, " us you say they know the snip so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some onest innocent
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the
men, by proving this was the ship, and so innocent men ma pro-
babl be overpowered and murdered."----" Why," says the 01 man,
"I'llfind out a way to prevent that also; for as I know all these
commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them. all as they
pass by, 1 will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run away with the ship,
yet it was not true that they had turne pirates; and that, in ar-
ticular, these were not the men that first went ofl' with the ship, ut
innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded they will
so far believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come."

While these things were pas ing between us, b way of discourse,
we went forward directly for Nan uin, and in aaout thirteen days'
sail came to an anchor at the soot -west point of the great gulf of
Nanquin; where, by the way, I came by accident to understand
that two Dutch ships were gene that length before "me, and that}

- should certainly fall into their hands. I consulted my partner agam
in this exigeney, and he was as much at a loss as l was, and would
very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere: however, I230 AD" ZVTIYRES or "0|than causes.

was not in such perplexity neither, but. I asked the old iilot if there
was no ereek or harbonr which I might nil. into ant pursue my
lltisilit'a's with the Chinese privately, and u- in no dauvrer of the
eintniv. He told mo, il' I would sail to the southward about. forty-
tn'o leagues, theri was a little tort called (Quint-hung, where the
fathers of the m' on usually landed from Mn am, on their prog as
to traeh the Christian religion to the (illillt'ati, and where no l'luro-
pran >ltlps erer put. in; and il' I thought to art in there. I might
eousider what, tnrihrr course to take when was on shore. llc
confessed, he said. it was not a place for merchants, except that at
some certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the
merchants from Japan came over thither to buy tho Chinese iner-
clumdises.

We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the port. as
he called it, 1 may perhaps spell wrong. for 1 do not l):|l'l.lt'ul:il'l_"
remember it, baring lost this, together with the names of many
other ilaees set, down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
vater t_\'llll accident; but thisl reineinber,tliat tthhiiu-se or Japanese
merchants we corresponded with called it. by a dill'erent name from
that, which our Portuguese pilot. gave it, and pronounced it. as above,
Quint-hang. -

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we
weighed the next. day having only gone, twice-on shore where we
were. to get fresh wal ; on both which occasions the people of the
country were very eiril to us, and brought. us abundance of things
to-srll to as, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls, but nothing without money.

We came. to the other port. (the wind being contrary} not till lire
days, but it was very nineli to our satisfaction; and was joyful,
and I may say thauht'ul, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and
mv partner too, that it" it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
elleets any other way. though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on hoard that. unhappy vessel more; and
indeed, I must. zit-knowledge, that of all the circumstances of lite
that erer I had any experiment of, nothing makes mankind so com-
pletely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the
Seri dare. say, "The fear of man brings a s ';" it is a life of
dent i, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
of no relief.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for as was, to get us
ire nainted with three missionary lloniisli priests who were in town,
null who had been there some time converting the people to
Christianity; we thought they made but. oor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they had' done : however, that
was none oi our business. ()ne of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called l-'ailier Simon; another was a Portuguese. and the third,
ii (it'ltucsc; Father Shuoa was courteous, easy in his manner,

 
  

    
 

 

 

 

rand very a reeuhle company; the other two were more reserved,
seemed rigi and austere; and unified seriously to the work they
came about, viz., to talk with, an insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants, wherever they had an o portunity. We often ate and
drunk with those men; and though, must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true
conversion required to brin heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to ittle more than letting them know the
mum: of Christ, and say some rayers to the Virgin Mary and her
Son, in u tongue which they no erstand not, and to cross themseives,
and the like; yet it must he confessed that the religionists, whom
we call missionaries, have a. line belief that these people will he
saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most
violent tortures, for the sake of this work.

But to return to my story. This French riest, Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chic of the mission to go
up to l'ekin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Mat-no, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but
he was inviting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world: a city, said he, that your
London and our Paris put together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of l'ekin, which, I confess, is vury great, and infinitely
full of people; but us I looked upon those things with difl'crcnt
eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when 1 come in course of my travels to speak more per-
ticularl of them.

We ad something else before us at first, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be
ver doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very
nah business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river
of Kilum, and the city of Nnuquin: but Providence accrued now
more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
afi'uirs; and I was encouraged, from this very time, to think I should
one way or other get out of this entangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
View of the manner.' Providence, 1 say, began here to clear up our
way a little: and the first thing that offered was, that. our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what
goods we had; and. in the first place, he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good rice for it, paying us in gold by weight, some
in small pieces of their own com, and some in small wedges, of
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing with lnm

for our opium, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for
24.

G.
the ship too, and i ordered the interpreter to' propose it to him: he
shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first pro osed to him;
but. in a few days after he came to me, with one of t. 1e missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me lte had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of goods of us,
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the
ship; aml that, therefore, he had not money enough to put; for the
ship : but if 1 would let the same men who were in the ship navi--
gate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; aml would send
them front thence to the Philippine islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight. of before they went to Japan, and
that at their return he would buy the ship. 1 began to listen to his
pro osal, and so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I
eon d not. but begin to entertain a notion of gomgfimyself with him,
and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to tile South Seas ;
accordingly- ] asked the Japanese merchant. it' he would not hire us
to the Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, "No,
he could not. do that, for then he could not have the. retum of his
cargo; but he. would discharge us in Japan. at the ship's return."
Well, still I \\ as for taking him at that )roposal, and going myself;
but my partner, wiscrthan myself. persuailed me from it, representing
the dangers. as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous ieople; likewise those of the Spaniards at
the Philip titles, more fa se, cruel, and treacherous than they.

But to bring this long turn of mtr all'airs to a conclusion: the
first thing we had to do was. to consult with the captain of the. ship,
and with his men, :utd know if they were willing to go to Japan:
and while l was doing this. the young man whom my nephew had
left with me. as my companion for my travels canto to me, and told
the that he thought. that voyage promised very fair, and that there
was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it ; but that if l would not, and would give him leave. he
would go as a merchant, or how i )h'ased to order him; that if he
ever came to England. attd I was there and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as tnnch mine
as I pleased. I was really lot h to part with him; but- considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, and that
he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I
inclined to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner,
and give. him an answer the next day. My partner and I disco'ursed
about. it, and my tartuer made a most generous ofi'er: "You know
it has been an unlucky ship," said he, "mid we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again: if your steward (so he called my man) wil.
venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and
let. him make the best of it; and if we lire to meet in England, and
he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the
profits of the ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with in young man,
made him such an odor, I could do no less than offer iin the same:
and all the ship's company being willing to go with him, we made
over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from him,
ohliging him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan.
The Japan merchant proved a ver punctual, honest man to him;
protected him at Japan, and got iin a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very iunetually; sent him to the Phili pines, loaded
with Japan and China wares, and a su ercar o of t eir own, who,
trallicking with the Spaniards, brought ack *'uropean ods again,
and a rent uantity of cloves and other spices; and ticre he was
not on y aid his freight very well, and at a very good price, but not
being wii ing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on his own account; and with some money, and some spices of his
own which he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to
the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Herc, having
got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he at his ship madeafrce
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired rim to go to Acapulco in
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him alicence to land
there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to

turope with all his men. He made t e voyage to Acapulco ve
happily; and there he sold his ship; and havmg there also obtaine
allowance to travel by land to Poi-to Belle, he found means, some-
how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure; and about
cialit years after came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
ogre notice in its place: in the mean time, I return to our particular
a airs.

Being now to part with the ship and the ship's company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design against
us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a very
considerable service, and deserved well at our hands; though, by
the way, they were a couple of ronnes too: for as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and that we had really run away With
the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design that was
formed vainst us, but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them
confessc afterwards that nothing else but the ho s of goings
roguing brought him to do it: however, the service t ey did us was
not the less; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the money to be paid them which they said
was due to them on board their respective ships; over and above
that, I ave each of them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented t. iein very well; then I made the Englishman gunner in the
ship, the gunner being now made second male and parser; the
Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well pleased,

and proved very serviceable, being both able semen, and very stout
fellows.
IOURHEY TO PEKIN --- ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PROCEEDING
TO MOSCOW--RENCONTRES WITH THE TAICTARS.

I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about;
thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind to see the
eit y of l'ekiu, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon im-
portuncd me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or
not; so I referred him to m partner, and left it wholly to his
choice, who at length resolved it in the tillirmntive; and we pre-
pared for our journey. We set: out: with very good advantage, as
to finding the way, for we got leave to travel in the rctinue of one
of their Mandarins, a kind of viecroy or principal magistrate in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and with much homage from the
people, who are sometimes great] impoverished by them, being
obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their attendtuits in
their journeys. That which I particularly observed, as to our tt'a
veiling with his baggage, was tlus, that though we received suliicicnt
provisions both for ourselves and our horses front the country, as
elonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every-
thing we had, after the market price of the country, and the Man-
dnrin's steward collected it duly from us; so that our travelling in
the retinue of the Mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a great adrauta e
to him, considering there were about thirty other people travelled in
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his rctinue;
the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet
he took our money for them.
We were twenty-five davs travelling to Pckin, through a country
mfinitcly populous, but I think badly cultivated ; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though the boast so -
much of the industry of the people: I say miserable, i compared
with our own, but not so to these poor matches, who know no
other. The pride of the people is intinituly great, turd exceeded h
nothing but their poverty, which adds to that which I call their
misery; and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have nothin , so they desire
nothing: whereas these are mud and insolcnt, an in the main are
more beggars and drudges; tieir ostcnt-ation is incxpressible ; and, it
they can, they love to keep' multitudes of servants or slaves, and,
which is to the last degree ridiculous, have the greatest contempt
of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand 'l'artary than here; and yet
the roads here are well [mvcd and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers: but nothing was more awkward to me than to see
such a haught , imperious, insolt-nt people, in the midst of the
grossest simplicity and ignorance. and my friend Father Simon and

used to be very merry upon lhese occasions, to see the ln-ggarly
pride of these people. For exainplo, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
oti' the city of Nauquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
perfect Don Quixot-ism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. Ilis .
mhit. was very troper for n scuramouch, or merry-andrew, being a
dirty calico, with hanging sleeves, tnsscLs, and cuts and slashes on
almost every side; it covered a tnfl'cty vest, as greasy as a butcher's,
and which tcstilied that his honour must be a most exquisite slovcu.
His house was but n poor, starved, hobbliug creature, and he had
two slaves who followed him on foot to drive the cor creature
along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belabourc the beast as
fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about. ten or twelve servants, goinSSffrom the city
to his comitry seat, about half a league before us. 1 e travelled on_
gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we came
by the country soatof this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating his repast, It was a kind of a garden, but
he was very easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased. He set
under a tree, somethin like the pzdmctto, which efi'ectunlly shaded
him over the head, on on the south side; but under the tree was
also placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough.
He sat lolliu back in a great. elbow-chair, bcmg a heavy, co ulcnt
man, and had his meat brought him by two women slaves; o had
two more, one of whom fed the squire with a spoon, and the other
and the dish with one hand, and scraped ofl' what he let fail upon
his worxhi i's hrard and tath-ty vest with the Oitllt'l'; whilr the grant
fat hrutiv. t iough' it. ht'lt)\V him to ('m >on his own hands iii any of
those familiar otlit'vs, \\'l|it'll kings and monarchs would rather do
than be trouhlt-d wilh thi- vhiiusy flitgi'ra ot' thi'ir servants.

At lotiglh \\'(' arrivvd at l't'hill: "I had nobody witlt inn but. tho
youth whom my llt'ltht'w thi' captain had girrii inc to attend nut its a
servant. and who prorril rt'ry trus uul diligvnt: mid my partner
had nobody with hint, but oui' srrr: it. who was a kinsmnu. As for
tlu- l'oi'tugut-M' lIIlUl. ht' bring di'sirous to soc tho court, we bore
his ('ltfll'gt'b for his rontpauy. and to iisr him its an interpreter, for
he iiiidvrstood thi' langua 't' of tho ('Ultttll'\'. and spoku good Frt'nrh
and a "Mb English; and., illtlt't'tl. this old man was a most: usvfu
titi \lt'mt'nl. to a: orcrywhi-rv; tor no had not lK't'lI abori- a wink at
.l'i'liiii. whvu hr canto liutghin -. " :'lt. Sruhor luglrso." Nlid ho, " I
havi' Hiiiii'tbing to it'll you wiii malu' your bi'art glad '. " " My hrttrt
glad ! " says I ; " u but ':Ill that ho? I don't. know anything iti this
country 'an ('llllt't' giro nic joy or grit-f. to any grant. degree."
" Yrs. yrs." .<<aid tln' old man. in brokou English, " ntahc you glad.
nu- sotn " "by." said I. " will it mukr you sorry?" " lii'.
can. - " said hr. " you have brought me hero Iwi-ntyolivv days' jour.
nor. and will lvart- ow to go back ulottt', and which way shall I get to
my imrt :il'tvt'wards without. a ship, without a Iltll'St'. \rilliou' [)PCIIIII': "
so he callvd mourr. bring his broken Latin. of \\lil('ll ho had abun-
tiitltt't' to malw us inert-5' with. In short. lu- ti-hl us Ihoro was a
git-at i-armau ol' i\lu.~i-i-riti~ and Polish ltlt'tt'llflllL' in tho. city, iirti-
paring to art out on tilt'll' juut'nry by land to Must-my, within four
or tirv \\'('('l\$. and M was Mll't' we would take the opportunity to go
with thrm, and lt'.'l\'t' him bt'llilni. to go back alone.

I (-ottt'i'ss l \\:t.\ gri'atly Mtl'l't'iN'tl with this good ni'ws. and had
St'zit't'i' want to .<<iu'al' to him lui' witn' timi'; but :tt ltlhl l titt'tu'd to
him: "How do you Lnow t!ii>?" said I. ";\t'i' you suir it is
tt'ui'?" " Yr " say.>> ho: " l Ittt'l this morning: iii lllt' Sll't't'l ati ohl
nt'q aititam'i- of mint: an .\rnt('tii:iii. who is among Illt'lll: lu' 'atiiu
last from .\>tr:u'an, and was (i('>l_ultlllg to go to 'rtdullllll' wlii't'r l
forini'rly turn him. but has :tll('l'|'ti his mind. and is now l'l'M)l\'('.ti to
go with tltu caravan to Moscow. and so down lhv riri-r Wolgii to
Astrat'aa." " "ill. svuhor," _'s l. " do not luv um-asy about
bring: h'l't to go hat-k alone; it' this ha a int-thud for my l't'llll'll to
England. it shall bu your fault if you go back to .\la no at all." "'0
tlu-n wont to consult lt'gmllt'l' what was to h- dotn'; and l a>lwd my
purtnrr what ho. thought of lilt' pilot's urn-s, and "'ht'llll'l' it would
suit with his tithiirs? llc tohl lltt' hr wonhl do just as I would. for
he had sctth-d all his a ' ' ' so well at Bengal, and lrt't his nth-ms in
such good hands. that as we had made it. good royagi' horn. it' hi:
could rust. it iii ('hitta silks. wrought. and ran. sin-h XIS might bi-
wo.'th illt' mirriiigi', he would be coutout to go to England, and then
make his wing-.- hack to Bungal by the Company's ships.ADVENTURES or ItoltlxsuN' (unison. 287

Having tesmveu upon this, we agreed that. if our Portuguese ilot
thllltl go with us we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to 'ug-
loud, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over geno-
rnus in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, the service
he had done us being really worth more than that ; for he had not
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about.
it, and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
tutti very willing also to have him with us besides, for be was a most
necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to tire him zgquanlity of
c-vined gold, which, as I compute it, came to u out. one hundred and
seventy-live pounds sterling, tetweeu us, and to hear all his charges,
both for himself and horse, except. only a horse to carry his goods.
Ilaviug settled this between ourselves, we called hitu to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him lte ltnd com thriller] of our
being to let him '0 back alone, and I was now to tel him we were
resolved he SllOlll not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go
to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us:
and that we called hitn to know his mind. Ile shook his head, and
said it was a long journev, and he had no pee/me to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he come there We told him we
believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something
for him that should let him see how scusihlc we were of the service
he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we. had resolved to give him here, which he might lay
out as we would (0 our own; and that as for his charges, if lte
would go with us we would set him safe. on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Museovy or England. which he would, at our
own char 0, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal ike anizui transported, and told us he would gowith us
over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
llowever. as it was with us,'so it was with the other merchants:
they had many things to do; and instead of hciufv ready in live
Weeks, it was iour months and some days before all things were got
laurel tcr.

,lt was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot bzul gone express back
.0 the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods
which we had left there: and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I
had some knowledge of at Nonquin, and who came to Pekiu on his
own affairs, went to Nan uin, where I bou ht ninety pieces of line
duumsks, with about two undrcd iieces 0? other very fine silks of
several sorts, some mixed with go d, and had all these. brought to
l't'kiu against in partner's return: besides this, we bought a very
large quantity oil-aw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount-
ing, in these goods only, to about three thousand live hundred
pounds storling; "'llit'h. togt-thrr with tea, and some liut' ('alimos,

and throw 'aun-ls' loads of nutlut'ga and plows, loaded in allvightt't'n

cann'ls for our share, hesidos thosa: we rndt'. upon ; which, with two

or tlm-o spare hurst ', and two hum>>: loaih'd with provisions, made
8. in short, twvnty>>six crawls and lioracs in our ratinuc.

The company was ran; great, and, as near as I ('an rt'mmnlior,
madv l)t'l\\'t't'll throw and tour huudrnd horst's, and upwards of one
hundred and twrnty mun, very well armed, and providvd for all
i-rvnts: turns. tln: Eastern caravans : 'o suhjoct. to he allackvd hy
the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; hut thvy are not altogotliur
so dangcrom as the Arabs, nor so harbamus, wln'u tlu'y pri-rail,

The company i-unsistt'd of pm do of svrvral nations; hut there
wt-rc abort: '.t_\j ol' tln-m nu-rcnnuts or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of thvm H'IIK' were Livonians; and to our particular" satis-
faction tire of them were Scots, who app unwl also to he man of
grant, oxpt't'imcu in business, and of rat-)- gmnl suhstancc.

Wln-n we had trarvllud one day's junrnry, thv gnidvs, who were
iirt- in nnmht'r, called all the "vntlcincn and im~r(.-hants, that is to
say, all llu' paangors vxccpt. the servants, to a "l'l'itl rnnm-il, as
Ila-y t'tlllt'tl it. At this council every one (ll-1\t>>it<'tlzt('nNain quan-
tity to a (-onuuon stock, for thc Item-ssary ('Xpt'tlst' of haying: forage
on tho wa_\', "how it. mot olhm'wtso to he had, and for satistyin"
tln- guides, gutting ltors s, and the like: and llt'l't' tln')' constitutrd
lilt' iunrnvy, as tlu'y callul it, viz. tht-y nznuvd raptains and oilim'rs
to draw as all up, and give the word of cmumand, in case of an
attack, and giro i-rcry one their turn of command: nor was this
forming as ialn ordvr any more than what. we found uccdl'ul upon

lla- way, as shall he Olh'ttl'fi'tl.

ln two d ' more we passvd the great, China wall, made for a For-
tith'atiou ag..unst. the 'l'artars; and a very great "th it. is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, whvrv tho rut-ks art:
impassihlv, and thc prrcipiccs such as no ('nt'nIV ('Uultl i

 

 

 
   

   

_ )USSlllly
l'lllt'r, or indeed (-lnnh up, or wht-ro, if thvv did, no wall ('flllil hinder

thum. They tt-ll us its length is nvar a thousand English miles, hut.
that the country is live luuidrt'd in a straight nn'aaurml line, which
the wall hounds, without un-asnriu: Illa! windings and tnrnings it,
tak ': it is about. four l'atltoms high, and as_ many thick in some
plat-vs. . '

I stand still an hour, or thcrt'ahont, without trespa. ing our
ordt-rs (for so long the caravan was in passing the gatc), to look at
it. on awry side, "NW and far oll', l moan that 'as within my vurw;
and lllt' guide of our caravan, who had hccn extolling it. for "10 won-
dci' of tho world, was mighty cagx-r to hair my opinion of it. I told
him it was a umst: excellent. thing to kt't'l) out. the Tartars; which
he happcnt-d not. to uudcrstaml as I meant. it, and so took it for a.
compliment; but the old pilot. laughvd : "U, St-nhnr high-so," says
he, " you speak in culuurs."--"lu colours!" said 1; what do
you mean by th:1i. P"~-- "Why, 1'o11 speak what looks 11'hite this
1.1.1y, 11ml l)l111'k Ih111. 11113. - guy one wav, and dull another. You tell
1111;. it is .1 good 1111!] lo keep out 'I'art1us; vou tell me by that, it is
good for nothinu; but. to L1 ep out 'l'11r111rs.I understand you,
be'uhot [ugh-so; l undemtzunl you; but. Senhor Chinese understood
you his own 11'11v." --" Vt -,ll " suvs l, "b'enhor, do you think it.
11.11111! stand out 1111 arinv of our countiy people, with 11 end trnin
ot'111'till131y,or our engineers, with two com anies o miners?
"ould not. they better it 1lo11'n in ten (11115, Mar an army mirvht
enter in b:1tt.:1li11'. 01 blow it up in the. 11h, 16111111111011 and all,th11t
there shouhl be. no sin'n of it. let ? " --" \v, :w,"s11ys he, "I know
th: 11. " The (' him se 11:1nt1'1l mightilv to know what. I said, a111lI
1:111. him leave to 11.1] him 11 few days after, f'oi we were then all-111st
out. oi their countrv, and he was to leave us in 11 little time utter
this; but "hen he hin'w 11l111t 1 said, he was dumb all the. rest of
the way, and 111: heard no more of his line sloiy ot' the Chinese
p1111er1in1l grunness while he stared

After 111: passed this 111i1.rht.1' nothing, enlh'd 11 11 '1", something like
the. Pitts wall, so famous in Nort.,h111iiberln1ul built. by the ltoinuns,
11'1- iu-grnu to find the country thinly inhabited, and the peopie 1:11i11.1'
nonlinml to li1'1" 1n l'urtilied Mums and cities, as being subjeet to the
111111 11ls 11ml d1pr1'11l11tions of the T'aitzns, 11h1) rob in "red armies
and theref'om zue not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of 1111
open country. And here I in gun to find the necessitv ot' keeping
together 111 11 ear111'1111as we travelled, for we saw se1- .1l tioops ot'
'l'1i1't11rs loving 11.;huut but. when I came to see them 1lis- 11 .1l1', I
11' on-Jered more th: '11. the Chinese empire could be conquer. 1| bv sueh
contemptible t1'llo11s; 1111' they are a mere horde ol'11'1ld fellows,
keeping no order, and undeistnnding no diseiphnc or manner oi
li-vht. 'lheir horsse 1111'. pool l1'1111 cre11t.11res.t11utht nothing, and lit.
{01 nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, whieh

11'115 utter We cnteied the wilder peut of the coi11111'1'.0111'le1ider for
the d111 g:11-'ele111'el'or about sixteen 01' us 111 go 11hu1uing as they
cull it,a.'.11l 11 I1." was this but hunting ot sheep: however, it may be
mile 1! hunting 1110, 1'01 the creatures'3 are the wiidest 11nd swil'lest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind;1)nl_v they will not. run 11 great
11111',1111dyou are sure of sport 11 hen you begin the chase, lot they

umeur <<venerally thirty 01' 1'111'1y in 11 lloek, and, like trite sheep,
11 11'111's keep together when I.h11_1 lb:

"1: were 1111 this while in ihe (' luuese 11011111110113 and t'hcwfore
the. T1111 us were not so hold 113 11I'Hte111111';1ls hnt' In about lire d1115
11'1'. enmed avast, gr1-111,1vil1l desert. 11l111 l1 held us three days and
nights' in 111 h, 11nd 111' Mare obliged to 011- 1'1 our water with us in
great le.1t helu bottles, and to encump all night, just as I have heard

their do' 111 the. desert. of Arabia.
1115kcd 11111 guides 111111511 d11111i11iou this was in: and they told me

this 11': 1s 11 kiinlot' bu1'de1,1md :ni'rht be Called No Man's L1ind, being
:1) U290 mrrmruuus or unumsoa cuusnrz.

ti part. of Grt'nt Karnltathay. 01' Grand 'l'artary ; hut, however, it. was
ull rt'ckmn-d as lit-longing to (Yhina. hat. that Ilu'ru was no -:trv taLcu
ln-rc to prrsri'w it from the inroads ot' thirrcs, and then-lure it was
roukonvd thv worst dust-rt in the whole march, though we \Vt'l't: to
go m't'l' some umt'h lmh r.

In passing this wildm'm-ss, which was at first vrry frightful tn mo,
wusaw. lwnur llll't'l' linu-s litllv partits ol' the 'l'arlars. Once, a
party ul' ilwm camv so war as to >l.'ul(l and mum at us; wlwtlu'r it
\\'I to mmsylx'r if they should alt-ark us or not. we knvw not ; hut.
uln'n wv wvrv passvd at some di>tanw by thrm, wv made :t rvar
guard nl turty turn. and stuod rrady for them, h-ttiug Ilu- caravan
pass hall a mile or tlwrrnliouts lwl'orr us: but :il'trr n whilt' tln-y
Inart-lwdotl';unl_\' \\'t' t'ound tlu-y salutvd us withvtiu- arrows at lln~ir
parting, our. of \\'llll'l| wouutlvd a hur. . so that. it disaltlrd him. and
we lt'l'l: him tlu: ut'xt. (lay, poor t'l't'tllul'l'. in ut't'ut m t'tl of a flood
l'art'ivr; llu'y might. shout. mort' arrows, which might t'nll short. or us,
but wv saw no more arrow or 'l'artars that. timv.

Wu tl'm't'lh'd n 'at' a mouth alu'l' this. tlu- ways not living so good
usul. first. lhungh still in tln' dmuiuious nflhu umpt'ror ul' ('hiua. hut
lay '"or the most part. in rillugt's. some. of whit-h wrrc l'orlilird.
bot-ans>> ol' tlu- incursions of tln- 'l'artars. When "1' wt'i'c mnw to
out: of tlu-so towns (it was alinut two days and a halt jmn'nuy lwforu
we wrrv tr. come to NW ('in of Nauml. I \\':lltl('ll to lmy a 'aIm'L of
\\'l|l('l\ tln'rt' arts plenty to l\(' sold all lllt' way upon 'hat mad, and
bonus also. such as tht'y arr, lit-came, so many 'a'aruns mining that.
way, "my art' ot'tt'n wault'd 'l'ln- pvmm that l apulu- tn. tn grt me
a ('alnrl. would ham gone and touched out: for mu; hut 1. him a fool,
must. litmllit'ious. and go myst'll' along with him : tht' plau'c Was about.
twn milvs out of tho Village, wlu-rt- it St't'ms Llu'y hrpt. lhc cauu'ls and
horsvs t't-mling nndvr a guard.

l wulkml it on font. with my old pilot and a ('hiuosv living wry
tlt'sil'utls of a littlv \' irly. \Yln'n "c (:unv tn llu' pl rc. it was a
low marshy ground, wallvd round with a stone wall. llllt'tl up dry.
\thltlml mortar or t-arth among it. lilw :t park. with a little gnatd of
('hiut-sr soldit-rs at the. dunr. lluvt \ v lwmghl a camel, mu .ft't't'tl
[or the wing I cum ~ away. and tho (hut-wanna that wrnl with nu:
h'd tlu' t'atnt'l. whou on a suddvn t'a'm' u I lit'v 'l'arlars tm horsrlmck ;
two of them st'izvd tln' ti-llow and low the ('znuol from him, while.
\In: otlu-r three htvppvd up to lltt' and my old pilot. swing us, as it.
wcrt'. unarmed. for I had no \Vt'flptlll about. mu but. my sword, which
could but ill drt'vud Itlt' against tlu'vu horscuu'u. 'l'hr lirst that 'amc
up Mulmcd short upon my drawing my sword, for tlu" art'. arrant,
cowards : lml. a. svmtnl coming upon my left, guru mu a liluw on the
l 'ad. which i nvrvr felt till a' .'t'\\':ll'tls, and WOIItlt'H'll, when I came
to myscll'. what was the matter. and whom l was. for llt' laid me (lat.
un Iln- ground; but. my ut'rt'r--lailing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Prov-deuce, unlocked for, directs dulircnmcca from dangers which to
us an: unforeseen). had a pistol in his pocket, winch [knew nothing
of, nor the '1' ms neither: if they had, I suppose they would not
have nttaeked us ; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
(hm for. The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up
to t to fellow that. had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one
hand, and pullin r him down by main force a little towards lum wit-t
the other, shot. the in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot.
He then inmiedintely stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a blow at him
with a seimitar which he always wore, but missing: the man, out his
horse in the side of his head, out one of the ears ofl' by the root, and
a great. slice down by the side of his face. The mor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be. governed )y his rider, though
the fellow sat. well enough too, but. away he llew, and carried him
quite out. of the pilot's reach ; and at sonn- distance, rising upon his
hind legs, threw down the 'l'artar, and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese eamr in who had lost the camel,
but. he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his
hors t'alieu upon him, away he runs to him, and s amp; upon an ugly
ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something like a poleatxe,
but. not a pole-. e neither, he wrenrhed it. from him, and made shift
to knock his 'l'artarian brains out with it. But. my old man had the
third 'l'artar to deal with still, and seeing he did not fly, as he
expected. nor come on to light. him, as he upprclunuird, but stand
stock-st ill. the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle,
to charge his pistol again: but. as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol,
away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion 1 called him after-
wards, a complete victory.

lty this time I was a little recovered ; for I thought when I first:
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as Isaid
above, [ wondered where I was, how i came upon the grOund, and
what. was the matter. But a few moments after, as sense returned,
I felt. pain, though I did not know where; so 1 clapped my hand to
my head, and took it away bloody :'then I felt. my head ache; and
then, in a moment, memory returned, and every thing was resent;
to me again: I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hol of my
sword, but no enemies in view: 1 found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse standing very qnietl by him ; rind, looking further, I saw my
champion and deliverer, w to had been to see what the Chines" had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing;
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great
deal of joy. being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it. was not much, only what
we. call a broken head; neither did I afterwards lind any great;
giconrenieuce from the blow, for it was well again in two or three

M's.
We made no great :gain, llO\'t'C\CI', by this Victory, for we 'ost is292 ADVPCN'I'Ulmx or immnsnn Henson.

('jllm'l and guinrd a llul'hl". hut lhnt which was l'l'llllll'kzlltlt'. Wllt'n \VB
vann- hark In tlu- \'lll:l_'.:t'. tlu'. \miu drunuulnl to he paid luv the
('mnrlz l (llhllllll'tl it, and it. was hmught to n hum'iug: "turn the-
(lltlllt'N' judgv nl' tla- plat-v. 'l'u give him his duv. he. iu'u-d with a
groin dvnl <<it prudt-ni-c nnd im uu'linlity; :uul, huving hcui'd hath
sidi-s, ln- grarvly mkrd the (Thin van mun that. went with mo In buy
llu~ onuu'l. "la-soc m-rrnnt In! ".13? "I inn rm arrvnnt," ruys lac,
"hut wont with "in strnngn'r."<<" Al. whose request l'" snys the
juslii-i'. " Al tlu- slrungcl": l't'tllk'bl." any>> In: "Why, than."
an the 'nslu-v. " yuu wurn tho slrangvr's svi'vuut fur llu' tnm': nud
tlu' munvl iii-inf; drlivrrvd tu his servant, it. "mu ih'liwmd tn himI
and lu' must pay fur it."

I mutt-as tlu' thing wns so ('lan', "till. I had not a word to
sav: lml. ndmiring In 500. Slu'll just rvasnuingz upon lhu unum.
uu'Iu-v. and an ll('t'll'|l|' stating: <<l the cast-,1 paid willingly l'ur
tlu' tunnel. and svnt. l'm' nnutlar; hul. you may nhsrrrv. 1 did
u-rt git tn rt'lCll it n:_\ svll' any mm'i'. l'nr I had vnnngh ul' thul.

'l'lu' city (if Naum is a l'runlivi' at tho (thilu'su i-mliiri': lhvv ('all
it l'urtiticd. nnd so it is. as t'm'ti'ii-nliuns go Ihvrv; l'ur thial will
\'i'ntnru to nllirm, lhat all lllt' l'm'tai's in Kui'nkalhay, \\'llil'll I
hrlimr, nn' sunu' inilliuns. (-nnld nut. halli'r down the walls with
lhvir lmws and nrruws; but In ('nll it. strung, if it. wvrt' nttat'ki'd
willi l'.'lllllUll. would luv. to make. tiinsi- whn undvrslziud it laugh at.
you.

Wi- wuutvd. as l haw said. "lawn two dnys' jnnrm'y of this city,
whvu inn-m'iigvrs \u-rv :a-ul t'xprrss in m'vry pnil ul' the mud to tell
nll ll'luollt't's :nul varnrnns tn lullt till "my had in gnurd scut. l'ur
"mm; for that nu unusual lmdy of 'l'nt'tars. making tun thousand
in all. had nmwarul iu tlu: way. nhnut thirty niilvs licyund the
cilv.

This was wry lmd ni-ws tn lrnvclh'rs: lmwvrvr, it. wns carefully
dmw ut' llu- gm'n'rnm'. and \\'(' wvrr \'my glad to lax-n" \\'(' slmuld liavn
n guard. Art-ordaigli'. \wu days nl'tvl'. wr had twn lllllllll't'd suldii'l's
scnt us from u gm'l'lsnn of tlu- (Thinvsc. on our h'l't. and lhrun
hundrt-d nmrv tram thv rit)' ut' Nauru. nml with Ihcsc wv advanoml
lmlilly. tlw thrvv lunulml soldivra l'ruin Nmuu mnrclu-d in our
front. tlu' two hundred in nur rmr. and uur uu-n nu each side of mu'
l'anu'ls, with unt' haggngi'. and the whale can "an in the <<mint: in
[his ordcr. nnd wvll prvpan-d for llzllllt'. we thought. uursclvvs n
mulch l'm' tlu- whulv ti-u thousand Mngul 'l'nl'lul's, il' tlu'y lnul
npppi-nwd: lull, llu' lll'Xl- day, whcn (ht-y did appear, it was quite
:uunIu-r thing.

It wns vnrly in "in morning. wlu'n, mun-hing from a well silualvd
little town. i-nllvd (llmugu. we had :i rim' to l . which wr wi-ru
uhliml In l'rrry; and had llw 'l'artnrs had any unriligvnm'. then
hnd m-u lhv limo tu haw attai-ki-d us' wlu'n the carinnn lining nvcr,
the 1 'ar guard was behind; but they did not appear there. About
three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, b a cloud of dust they raised,
We saw an enemy was at hand; and they were at hand, indeed, for
they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese. our guard on the front, who had talked so big the
day behire, began to stugrger; and the soldiers frequently looked
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready
to I'll" away. My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me.
called out, "Si-iihor luglcse," says he, " those fellows must he eu~
managed, or they will ruin its all; for if the Tartnrs come on, they
will never stniid it.."-~-"l inn of your mind," said 1; "but what
must he done ?"v--" Done 3" says he, " let titty of our men advance,
and think them on each wing, and eneonrag: mum; and they will
fight. like brave follows in brave coin may: bu'., without, this, they
will evi-i'y innii turn his back. lnnnei talely I rode up to our leader,
and tohl him. who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty
of us matched to the right wing, and lift y to the left. and the rest.
made a line of rescue; niid so we marched, leaving the last two
hundred nn-u to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels: only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last lift y.

In a word, the 'l'artm's came on, and an innumerable coni any
they were: how many we could not tell, but. ten tliousan we
thought, was llie least: a party of them came on first and viewed
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and, as
we foiiiul them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot,
which was done ; but they went 011'. and I suppose back, to give an
account. of the rece itioii they were likely to meet. with; and, indeed,
that. salute eloyed t ieir stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood
awhile to consider of it. and wheeling oll' to the left, they gave over
their design, and said no more to us for that. time ; which "as very
agreeable. to our circumstances, which were but very inditlerent for
n battle with such a number.

Two days after we came to the city of Nana, or Nauin; we
thanked the governor for his care of us. and collected to the value
of a hundred crowns, or tliereahouts, which we gave to the soldiers
sent. to guard as; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison,
indeed, and there were nine, hundred soldiers kept here; but the
reason of it. was, that l'oriiierly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to
them than they now do. the Muscovites having abandoned that not
of the country. which lies from this city west for about two hun red
miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being so
very remote, and so dillienlt to send troops thither for its defence;
for we had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so
called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and twc dreadful

35"
drsmls; one of \\'l!l('ll \ro worn sixIN-n days passing 0m; and
\\'hn'll, us 1 Nllll, \\:r.~ In lu' ('nllnl Nu Muir's linml; mul. nu llu' llSIh
of April, \w mine In the l'ruuln-ra ol' lhr Muwm'ilu tllllllllllullfi. I
think lhr first lmru. ur fun-Irv" \rhivlu-vvr it may be ('2Ill|'ll, lhul
brlungml In tlu~ ('mr uf Mnsrn y, n'us culled Argun, being on lhu
\n'sl >idc nf thi- rirrr Argun.

l runhl nol hut Illsl'ln'l'l' an infinite sulishwliou thnl. I was so sun"
nrrivml in. us I ~nllml it. u (.'hrisliuu munlry, or. 2;! hunt. in u mun-
!ry gurrrmwl h_\' Christians; for llluugh lhx' Mnm'm'iu-s |l0, in my
opiniou, hnl jn'l .h-srrrc the mum.- ul' ('hnsliunm \'rl such u. y lur-
lmul m hr. and :m' \'rry <<lrvnnl- in lhcir \\n.\'. ll \ruuhl ('rrlnmly
un'ur In nny man u ho lruwls liln' world us I hurx' <<hum, and who lnul
any pmrrr ul' rrlh'vliun. \rhul n hh-saing iI is In hi- hrunght iulu Hm
\Hu'hl \rln-n: llu- mum of (iml and :I Ilmh'vun-I' is known. anhn'ril nInl
\vurshimml; unil not, whvrr lhv pmplv, girvu up hv llrnrrn m
shun}; \ll'lllfillllls \\'ul'>hlil lhr (l('\ll. :nnl prmlrnlc llu-mm-lvvs Io
smvhs nml Mnuv . worship lnnush-ra. (-lcmvnls. lNiI'l'lll-Slllliu'll uni~
umls, nml slnlm's m' iumgrs nl' Innnsh'rs NM. n (mm or My \u'.
yum-d Ihmugh, hm hml lhrir pnmnls, lhrir lllUlS' uu'd lhrir tk'lllllll".
:'mi iglnmnn gu-uph- nnl'hlllllplllg rwu ihkurks ul' lhrir own hands.
Nmr \\'v l'illlk' nhvn', ul. h'usl. n I'm-v ul' lhn ( ln'isliuu Wnl'hlllll
upprm'ml; \\'ln-rr 1hr knm- uns hmrml to vaus: nml win-1 hrr ignur-
nnily ur nut, \'vl llll' ('hrial inn rrligiou was nu'nml, null 1hr mum of
1hr lrnc (Ml was l'lllll'll u mu mnl inhn'ml. mnl il unulu my sun]
rrjnim to sow il. l anhnml l n- hrurr Smls nu-rrhuul I nu-ulium-il
uhm'v \\'i h my first :u-Lmn'lrnlgnu-nl. of lhis; mul inking him by the
luunl. l S\l(l lo him. " Bh-ssvd hr (ind. we 1er unv- n ruin amongst.
('hri.~li:u|s." llv smilul, nml :lusu'vri-il, " I)>> In>>! I'ojuivv too soon.
(Hmnlryumu! lhrsv Mnm-milrs are but un mhl snrt ol' Chrisliuus;
mnl but for llu' name <<if n. yuu nmy sun wry lilllr ol' lhv suhslnuue
lur snnn- munlhs hn'lhrr ul' unr junrm-y." " "TIL" viys l, " hut
slill ii is hrlH-r than lmgnnism inn! nun-shipping of rh-nls." " Why,
l "'1" h-ll you." suy.' hr. "('xrvpl the Russian suhlirrs in the aur-
I'isun' :nnl n l'vw ul' llu- inhnhilunls uf Ilu- cities upon lllz' ruml. ull
lhr I'ral ul' lhis ('nuulrr. l'ur about u lhuusuml milcs l'urllu'r. ' inlm-

lnlvd hr the nuns! uml Innst ignnriml ol' :wuns ; " auul :m indcud we
I' l '1 ' a
mum l -.SEC'l'H )N XlilI.

IOUTE THROUGH MUSCOVY--IGOBINSUN AND A SCU'I'S MERCHANT
DESTROY AN IDUL--THH WHOLE CARAVAN IN' GREAT l'l'llllL
Flt")! 'I'lll'! l'UltfiUl'l' OF THE I'AGA.\'S--- 'I'UlmlSKI--DBI'AETUIU'.'
FROM 'l'UIlOLQKl--ENt-'UUNTEIL WITH A TltUUl' OF "ORDERS IN
'l'lll-I DESERT--ROBINSON REACHEB ARCH/ANGEL, AND .l'lNALLY
AILIUVES I." ENGLAND.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I
understand anything of the surtuee of the globe, that is to he found
in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve hundred miles to
the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea,
westward; and iilxive'thrrc thousand, if we left that sea and went
on west, to the British and French channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the liidiaii or Persian sea, south; and uhout eirht
hundred to the Frozen sen, north. Nay, if sonie'people may be e-
liered, there might he no sea, north-east, till We came round the
pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of land into America; though 1 could give some reasons why 1 he--
lievo that to he a mistake. '

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before
we came to any considerable tliwns, we had nothing to observe
them but this: first, that all the rivers run to the east: as I under-
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it
was ilain all those rivers ran into the great river Yaiiionr, or Amour;
\\'lil('| river. by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sou,
or Cltlni'st' Ocean. The story they tell us. that the mouth of this
river is clicked up With hulruslics of a monstrous "rowth, viz. three
feel about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must he allowed to say,
I bt'llOVO nothing of it; but. as its navigation is of no use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tart-id's, to whom it alone belongs,
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody. that ever I heard of, has
hum curious enough to go down to the month of it in boats, or come
in from the mouth of it in shins. as far as I can find: but this in
rl-rlnin, lhnl this rim-r. running 0:151. in the lalilmlo 0f :lhnul filly
d!"_:'.l'l'.\'_ mum-s u v: -I mncnur ' ul' rivvz-s along with it. nml finds an
000ml lo muply ilsv ' in than. lulilmh- - nu wv urn surv of am lhcrv.

Sumo lt'll"|ll'.'~ 10 [hr uorlh of this river l.lu'rl' are svn'rul (mnsuh'r
nhh' rivers. "'husv slrrnnm run . (luv unrlh ns lhc Yulnmn' runs
v ' . :uul Ilu'sv :u'v :lll llnuul lu jnin lln-ir wull'rs wilh lln' grml rin'r
'l'nrlurus, nunn'd so I'rmn llll' nm'lhl'rnmsl nullnns of NW .\lug.:ul Tur-
lurs: who, us llll' ('him'm' MW. \n-rn' llu' lirsl 'I'nrlnrs in lln- world;
aunl ulm, us our gr plu nlh-ge, :n'n- Ilw (lug uml Mugug nwn-
limml in sm'l'wl slur): 'l'ln'sv riwrs running all nm'llm'urll. us \n'll
as all llu' ()llll'l' Vin-rs l an: 31'! In slwnk ul'. Iunkv il ('\'l(l('lll Ihnl Lln'.
nurllu-m <<10mm lnnunls Ihv huul also on lhnl Sllll'; an llml i1 lll'l'S
llul sm-m ruliunzll in iln' h':|.\l In lhlnk lhul Iln' hunl mu l~va|nl Elm-ll
lujuiu wilh Ann'i'ivu on lhnl sink. or lhul lhl'ru is not. a cmnnnmll'u-
linn lwlwvrn lln- nurllmrn :nnl mslvrn m' -:m: hul- uf lhis l >hall say
no mun-z il w: my IilIMI :lliun :ll. llml. lime, and lhurcl'm'v l lulu)
uulim' of it in lhis plm'v.

\\'<- nnw :ulvum-l-d from tho tivvr Argun hy vm)' and nuulvrnlc
jnunn' :uhl \n-u- wry \'iaihly nhligml Lu llll'. mm llw ('Lzu' ul' .\|us-
envy has lulu-n l0 lum- villa and mwns lmill. in us mung plan's us
il is lum. )lr In plum' lhrnl, nln'rc his suhlivrs kw}: garrison, suma-
thing lilw lhc slulinnnrv sollliura plan-ml lw lln- Humans in lhu
ronmlvsl ("mullril'x nl llu-ir clunil'v; sunu- nl whivh lhnl. I had mu!
uf \u-n' plm-ml in llriluiu. fur lln' svcurih' of muum'l'u'. and fur lhc
lmlging Iruvl-llcrs; mnl thus it. was lu-rl : l'nr \\'ln~rv\'or we came,
lhungh :ll. llll'Sl' lunns :unl sluliuns llw gm'rlmnsnml gm'vnmrs wvm
RH; and pml'vswll l'ln'isliuns. _\'l-I Iln' Lnlmhilnnls \n'rc nn'ru
pagans: "(I'l'llll'lllg In nlulx'. :nul \\-ur>|:im>ing lln' sun, nnnm. :uul
slurs. or all lhr husl nl' hum-n :uul nul. nnly su. hul \n-rv. ul' all the
hrnllwm :nul pagans llml l'H'l' l nwl nilh. Llu- most hnrhm'nns,
('Xl'rpl nuly lhnl. [hay (llll um. 2:11 Im'n's llvsh, m. our Sfd'ugl-s of .\mu-
ri 'u <<lill.

Sunw imlzuxm-s ul' lhis we mvl. wilhin lln' munlry livlwoon
Al'gun, whvn- \w- ('ulvr llu' Musl'm'ill' llmnininns. and u ('in ol
Turn 's and llllkhllllls Iugu-llu'r. mullml Nl'l'lllllsh '. in which is u
mnlinnwl (lust-H or fun-st. "llll'll ('(N us Inrnly days In lrzn'l-l
m'rr. In :: \'illngl'. nl'm' llu' lnnl ul' lln-fiv phu'l's. l hznl llll' ('llrinsily
to an mul M'l' Ilu-il' wnv nl' living, which is nmsl. hrnlish and in-
sull'rruluh'; lln'y hull hml. l slippmv. :1 grunt sm'rillvr lh:\l (lay; l'nr
thew slunll nut. upon an old slump ul' :1 Irvv. :nl lllnl Inmlu nl'
\uiml. frightful as lln' (ll'\'|l ; nl. h-nsl, us uny thing \n- mm think of
m l'('pl'o'SS('lll. lhv ulvvil mu IN! mullv: ll. hull n lll'nll not. so much nu
rcsl'mhling nuy ('l'l'illlll'l' lhul Ilm \nn'ld mu'r snw; vars as big as
guuls' horns, :unl as high ; (-yl's us his n.\' u ovum! pirm'; u nose like
ut'l'mllu'll rznn's horn. and u mnulh va-mlul I'uulnvnrm'd, likl- lhul.
ol' :1 liuu' "llll lnirrililv m-lh. [looked like u lulrrnl's umlvr hill: it
Was ll|'\'\5l'll up in lhc llllhll'st nnlnm-r l-llill- ypu couhl suppose: ils
upper garment was of shoe i-skiiis, with the wool outward ; a great.
'l'artiir bonnet. on the head, with two horns growing through it:
it was about eight. feet high, yet had no feet. or legs, nor any other
proportion of parts.

'l his seareerow was set up at the outer side of the village; and,
\\'ll('ll i came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distiiic.
lion by their habits, all lying llat. upon the ground round this
formidable block of sliapeless wood: I saw no motion among them
any more than if they had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and
.it. first. I really thought they had been so; but, when 1 came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a bowling cry,
as it' it liMl been so many deep-iiioutlied hounds, and walked away,
as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way
oil' from the idol, and at the door of a tent or but, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three buleliers,----l thought.
they were siieli: when l ennui nearer to them, 1 found they had
long knives in their hands; and iii the middle of the tent. appeared
three sheep killed, aild one youn'" bullock or steer. These, it seems,
were siteriliees to that. senseless log of an idol : the three men were
priests belonging to it, and the ereiiteen prestrated wretches were
the people who brought. the vlfcl'ltlg, and were making their prayers
to that stoek.

I confess, [ was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a liobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life;
to see. God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had
granted so many advantages. even by creation above the rest of
the. works of his hands, vested with a. reasonable soul, and that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and [degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a
mere iimiginar ob'ect, dressed up by themselves. and made terrible
to themselves )3: ticir own eoiitrivance, adorned only with elouts
and rags; and that. this should he the ell'ect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, cnvyina
to his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, bad deluded
them into such sordid and bl'lllit'vll things as one would think should
alioek nature itself!

But what. signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts:
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes. and there was no room to
womh r at. it, or think it impossible: all my admiration turned to
rage. and I rode u to the image or monster, call it what you will,
and with my swor made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its
head. and cut it. in two; amt one of our men that was with me took
hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it; when,
behold, a most hideous out-err and howling ran throughout the
village. and two or three liiiiidreu people 'aiiie about my cars, so299 Anvnxnmu or nonmsm: cunsnn.

that l was ghnl Io smur for N. for we <<aw somv had bows and
arrows; lml. l rrmlvml from IliuI IIIUIIII'III Io visit. llu'm again.

Our varnvnu rmII-d Ilm-u nighln at. tho Iowa. which was about
four milrs <<ill, in ordi-r Io provide some horsvs \VlliCll Ihvy \vamod,
srvrral of tho hows having hrvn lauurd and jadi-d with the hadnvxs
of llII' way, and long man-h ()\'('|' the last. dose"; no we lmd sumo
h-L'uro hm~ Io pm my dx-sigu in <<'M'culion. l communivaml my
""3"" In llh' Souls IIII'I'('lI:l||l ol' Mim'ow, of whose ('Ulll'i 'o .I had
sulluvzrnl lvsiunouy : l lold him what. I had art-n. and with what indig-
ulion I had sini'i' Ihuughl Ihat. human unlurv c-ould ho so (lI'gl'llI'l'Illl':
l lHIIl llilll if I could gt'l huI. four or "\'I' luv" "'('ll Ill'll|('(l logo
with um, I was ri-~-ol\('d In go and ilvsImy lhal \'ilt',ahonliuahlv idol,
and IN llu-in we 'haI il I no pom-r Io lu'lp isoll'; and oouso-
ilm-uily ('ullltl nol lu' an uh v! of worship. or In ho pr 'I'(l Io, much
loss llvlp Ilmn llml olll-ri'il . :u-rilch-s In il'.

"I' laughed :1! un- : s.y.x ho. " Your xml may lu- good. huI what.
do you pu'ulmw Io youm-ll liy ii?" " l'I'opow'." said 1: "lo
\'ll|<li(':ll(' Iln' Imuuurul' Iiquwhii'h is insuIIi-d hy Ihis' 'l('\'ll--\\'0|'.\lli[)."

" But how "'Ill it \'Illlli1'illI' the honour of (iod,' said lII', "wlnlo
lhv iii-uplv "'Ill uni. Iu- :nhlv In know whal you uwan hy iI, unless
you could spz-uk In llmn. and Ir" Ilu'ui so? And Ilu-Ill-lu'y will
Iighl you, :Ilul luau you Inn. 1'" : sure you; for "my are dvsprrato
follow... and Ihal rspwially iu drl'vm-v ol Ilwir idol:ilry,"--"()au we
mu." 5 id 1. " do it in llu- niglu. and Hum lvxm: Iln'm llu'. roasons
and NW 'auws in writing; in llu'ir own l;|llgll:lgt'?"--"" WI'iIingl"
said luv; " why lla'rv m uoI a man in Iivv nationsol' Ilu-m lhut knows
all_\'lhhiy.: ol' :1 li'lll'l, or how Io road a word any wuv."----" \'VN'H'lICd
igum'nui-v!" NIHi | In him: " lIIIWI'VI'I'. l have a grral. mind In do
it '. II'I Imps unlun- may draw iul'vrvucvs from H. In llu-in. lo loI. Ilicm
N'I' lmw l).ulPS.~h Ilwy 1-0 to \\'0|':~l|l[l ulch horrid Iliings."--" Look
you, an," said In>>. " your z~al pnunplx you to it. so warmly. you
must do iI ; lull in Ilu' m'xl. plavx'. I would havo you consider, Ihvsn
wild naliuns of pro )l -. are suhju-I-li'd hy I'nrt'v to Ilu' (37.11!" of Mus-
('o\'y'.\ dnmiuiun. and if you do lliis, il. is ten In one lun llwy will
('muo hy Ilmummls lo the guvvrnor of Non-Iziuskoi, and (ll'lllillld
salisl'avlimi; and il' ho cannot. give llu'iu s: . l'uoIion. it is ton to
our hul Ihvy ion-l! : and it will ocrusiou u now war with nll lho
'l'arlars in Ilu- rouulry. A

This. I (-ouhws, puI uvw Ihoughls imo my lu'ad Tor awhilt', hull I
lnu'lu'd upon ll 'anu' slring still : and :ill IhaI. day l was uni-my to
pal my proja-i-I, in vxcvulion. 'l'owards I-hc (svmmu: Ihu Scots
morn-haul um um by m-I'idrnl. in our walk about. the Iowa, and
(l('\il'('(l Io snrzik \\ ith nu': " l helium." said ho, " I haw put you ofl
your good drs' n -. l hurv lm-na liIIlo('mu'crni-dohouI it, since : for I
ahiior idoluIi as nun-h as you can do."-----" 'I'ruly." mid I." you have
pol il. oIl' . liIIh-. as In lhv i-xmution of it. lull you have not. put it
mu. of my IlmughIs: and l belirvc Ishall do it beforel unit this piui'o,ATWt-'V'I'Utms or unnmsnn ennsnn. 299

though I were to he delivered up to them forautisl'aetion."--" No, no,"
said he, "(led forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of
monsters! 'l'hey shall not. do that neither; that would be murdering
you imlm-d."----" Why," said 1. "how would they use me ?"---" Use
you !" mlitl he, " l'll tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
nll'ronted them in their worship, just as you did, and whom they took
primner, after they had ltuned him with on arrow, that. he could ttot run
away : they took him and st ripped him stark-naked, and set. hint upon
the top of the idol--minister, and stood all round him, and shot as tutu-y
nrrou's into him as would stick over his Whole body; and then they lmrnt
him, and all l.h.- arrows stiekiug in him, as a sacrifice to the idol."---
" And was this the same idol ?" said I. " Yes," d be, " the very
satue."--<<" Well," said 1. "I will tell you n story." So 1 related
the story of our men at. Mndnwtsenr, and how they hnrnt and sucked
the vill- u: there, and killed titan, "onion, and child, for their
murder ,. one. of our men, just us it is related below; and l ndded,
lhat I thought we ought. to do so to lhi~t village.

lle listened v. uttentiwly to the story; but when l talked of
doingr so to that village. snid he. " You mistake very mneh; it was
not this village, it. was almost. a hundred miles from this plane; but
it was the same idol, for they earry him about in procession all over
the eountry."----" Well," snid l. " then that idol ought. to be punished
for it; and it. shall," gnid l, " il' l live this night. out."

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and
told me. I should not go alone, but. he would go With me,
and bring a .stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with
us: " and one," said he, ": linnona for his zeal tut you can desire
any one to he tug. est sueh tlevuhsh things as these." [a a word, he
brought, tne his comrade, n Scotsman, whom he culled Captain
Richardson; and gave him a lull aceount of what l had seen, and
also what. I intended ; and he told me readily, he would go with me
if it. cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, imposed it to my partner, but he declined it. lle said he
was real 3' to :wsist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my del'enee; but. this was an adventure quite out of his way: so,
i - Y. we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man-
servant, and to put it. in execution that. night about midnight, with
oil the secrecy imugitmble.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till
the next night, heeause, the caravan being to set forward in the
interning. we supposed the governor could not pretend to {rive them
uny satisfaction upon us when we were out. of his power. The Scots
nan-eltant. as steady in his resolution for the enterprise, us hold in
exeeuting. brought. me a 'l'urtar's robe or Men of sheep-skins, and
a helmet, with abow and arrows. and luu provided the same for
himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, should
not be able to determine who we were.300 Aiwnx-rmins or RMIINRON cannon.

All the "1' I. iiiglil wv spout. iii mixingr up smnv PUIIllnlSilhlI' mail"
with nqiiu \'l . . gunpnwdvr. iuul sm'h Ullll'l' lllnli'l'l-'lls us wv i'milil
Fl'i ; and. h ring :i gnml qunuiiiy (if ini' in u liiilc put, about an
.lmll' llfk'l' Ii I. \\'l' Sl'l. mil upnn iiur i'xiwililiuu.

\l'i' ('ium'. Ii) Iln' plicc nlmiii. ('l('\'('ll n'i-lui'k iiI night, nnd found
IliiiI Iln- PI'UlliI' liziil uni Iliu lcusl jrnlniisy nl' duugvi' l|lii'lldlll,'.{ lln-ir
iilul. 'l'hi- nig'hI. was i-lnudy ; yol Ilic lllimll giivu n5 light. (-nuugh Io
svi' Iliiii. Illl' iilul slum] jiiiil. in Iln'. sniiic pusIuru ullll plum.- l.liiiI. it. did
ln'l'ui'v. 'l'lii~ limplu svi'invd In llI'. :ill in, "Mr rust; only. that in Ihc
gran. lniIv, nr Ivnl. us we ('tllli'Il iI, whvi'c \\'I'. suw the llll'('(' prii'als
whmn wi' mixinul; for hulchi-rs. wv suw :i light; and going up (-lusc
In Ihu dour, \\'(' l|('lll'(l lli'fllill? Inlkinp; us if IIu-ri- wrrn fiw nr six of
ll|i'i|l'. \\'I' mnvlmlvd, Ihi'i'i'liii'i'. that if wi' svl wild-lire In iliii idol,
tilH'St' nu-ii wmihl ('HIIII' ouI. illllll('(li:ll('l_\'. zuul run up in Ihu plum: lu
l'l'M'lll' it from lln- ilvsli'iii'iiiin Ilini \\'(' iiili'iiilrd l'ur ii: mid \vhul l0
do \\'ll-li llu-ni wv knrw iiui, (lm-c "'l' iln-nghI ul' (uii'ryiu'r il uwiiy
iiinl si'lilllg: lirv In ii iii :1 (lislum'v, liui \\'lli'l| wc mum: to iziiiilli' ii,
wv i'niind ii. Inn hulky I'ur our mii'i'iiigi'; sn wi- were Ill .1 loss iigiiiii.
.l'lll' Si'l'ulltl Si-uisumn was for svliiug' film In the Iuiil. or linl, and
knocking Ilic ('I'i-iiluri-s that "'1'"! lli('l'(' <<in llw llt'lul, when Ilu-y
(~:niu~ uni; lmI l i-uiild not join willi IhiiI: Iwns iigiiiusl killing
lulu-m. if it. wi'rv lumihlu Iu :miiil ii. " 'Yl'll ilwu." :{uid Ilw Souls
llli'l'('lllllll. I will lI'll you whzii wv will ilu: " \\'(' will My Ii) iiiiilw ilu-ni
lll'lfiulk'l'b. llI' llit'il' hands, and make llli'lil slinid and sec llii'ir idnl
ili'sli'olvi'il."

:\.\ ii. liiiiilivm'il, wi' llle Iwim' or puvLIhrviid i'nuiigh iihnuI. us,
which "as mod In ll(' our lii'wi'orks Ingclhi'i' willi: so we i'i'suli'i-d
Iniilizii'h llll'.\(' |ii'i\ili' first. and with :is lilih- noise :is in: <<mild.
'l'ln- lirnii lhiin: \\'I' (lid. wv knuvkml :il ihv duur, whvn, (llH'. of [he
iii-ii-sis ruining in ii. wo imiiii-diulvly si-izvd ulwm him. SllllllM'Il his
inuulh. und iii-d his liziiiilslivhind him, and lid him In ihi- idol. \\'ll('l'c
wv gziggml him Ilinl ho iniglii qu muh ' u nuisv, Iii'd his litcl also
togi-Ilii'i'. niid li'fi him on "H' 'rnund.

'l'wn of us lhvn \\'l|ll.i'Il iil i n' dour, ('Xpi'i'iing' lhul iiuoilivr wmild
cnim- mil. In gm whui Ilu' lll:lll('l' was. Inn. "1' wuiIi-il so lung!r Iill
lliI' lhird mun i-ziuiv hack In us: and llN'lI imhudy mining mil, we
kiinvkml :i;::iin gi'iilly. iiml illillil'diflli'l)' nut 0mm: two mime, and we
SI'I'VI'll Ihrm juslv in llli' sunn- |I11|lIII('I',l)|I'. wurc nl)ligrd to go all
wiili llII'lIl. and lay "IN" down In; lll(' idol smile (lisiiiiii'c from nnc
IlHI'lllI'l'; wlu-n, going Inn-k. wv l'uiiiiil him more \V('l'(' ('nnic nut I0
llli' lliii)". and :1 ihii'd stood liI'lilllIl Ihi'iii within lll('. door. We soizvd
Ihi- Iwu, :uid inmu-iliulvly Iii'd llll'lll, \\'l|l'|l Ilm Iliii'd Mrpping buck,
mid vi'ying mil. my Sums llIl'I'I'llillli "'l'llh in iifli'r him, iuid. hiking
"in. :i i-minmsilinn "'I' had much: thni. would (mlv smolw mid slink,

 

 

a

he sol Inn in ii and llil'('\\' il in mining Ilii'in: h} Ihut time the
Ollu'l' N'iilmnnn and III\' mun. lfll'illgf vluirgi' 0: Ilio lwn men uli'vud
bound, :iml ll('(l iugi-ihcr ulsn hy llM' arm, h-d ilivm away to the idu
and left them there to see if their idol would relieve them, making
haste black to us.

When the fine we had thrown in had filled the but with so much
smoke that. they wure almost snlfoeated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like u (nmdle, and followin
it in, we found there were but. four people, who, as we supposed, had
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. 'l'hey appeared, in
short. frightened to death, at. least so as to sit trembling and stupid,
and not. able to speak neither, for the smoke.

la a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all without any noise. I should have said we brought them out
of the house, or but, first; for indeed we were not able to bear tLe
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we
earri 1 them altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to
work with him; and first we duubed him allover, and his robes also,
with tar, and such other stuff as we bed, which was tallow mixed
with brimstoue; then we stopped his eyes and ears and mouth full
of gunpowder; then we wra 1pcd up a great piece of wild-tire in his
bonnet; and then stickinfr al the eombustibles we had brought with
us upon him, We. looked about to see if we could find anything else
to help to lmrn him, when my Scotsman remembered tiat by the
tent, or but, where the men were, there lay a hen of dry forage,
whether straw or rushes I do not remember; away lie and the other
Scotsman ran and fetched their arms full of that. When they had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, havin
uutied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and made them stand
up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to

the whole. . '
We stayed by it a uarter of an hour, or thercaboms, till the

powder in the as am mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and as
we could pen ., had split and deformed the sha e of it; and m a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or egg of wood; and
settinv dry forage to it, we found that it would be soon quite con-
Slllllm ; so we began to think of wing awa ; but the Seotsnruausald:
" No, we nmst not. go, for these poor eluded wretches thl all
throw themselves into the fire, and burn themselves with the idol."
So we resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then
came away aml left them. .

After the feat. was performed. we appeared in the morning among
our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in etting ready for our Journey;
nor could any man suggest that we ha been anv where but In our
beds. as travellers might be supposed to he, to {it themselves for the
fatigues of the day's journey

ltut the atl'air did not end so: the next day came a great number
of the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the l'tussiau governor for the m-
sultiug their priests, and burning theu' Cliam Clu-Thaungu. The

26809 ADVENTURES or IIoIIINsox CIIIIsnx.

pI-IIIIIII III NIII"II.iII.~lII)i \\'I'I'I' III lirsI in II. Li'l' III OIIIIszIII'IIIIIiIIn, I'Iir Illt'y
sIIiII IIIII 'l'IIIIIIIx III--I- :Ill'l' :IIly III) lI-ss lIIIIII IIIirIv IINHISIIIIII sIrIIIIg.
TlII' lIIIs Inn gIIII I"IIIII sI III IIIiI mess. IIL'I' Is In IIIIIIIII :.I- IIII'. III, and gIII I
IIIIIII IIll IIII' gum! \\"IIHIS imagiIIIIlIlII; assuring: IIII III IIIIII IIc IUII'W
HOIIIIIIL: OI ii. and IIIIII Illl'l'I! IIIId IIIII II suiil III his gIIITisoII III'I'II
IIIII"II:IIl, so IlIIII. iI IIIIIIIII IIIII IIII lmIII IIIIv IIIIIly Ilicm; IIIII il IllI'V
I'IIIIIII lII. IIiIII I"II)" \I"IIII IIiIl iI, III('\' sIInIIIII l)('( " IIIplziiilv IIIIIIisIINI.
'IIII'I' IWIIIIIIIHI IIIIIIgIIIily. IIIIII II" "III I-IIIIIIIIV II IIrIIIIII II IlII- gI'IIIIl
(IIIIIIII I '-lII IIIIZIIIII'JII \I"IIII IIII'I II in llIII sun, IIIIII IIII IIIIIIIIII \IIIulIl
II: III'. II:III'Il ll) IIlII I" \iIIII III"I'. III his iIIIIILI'II IIIII. NN'M' (' lui- inn mi~("
IIIII- . and NIH IllI' Winn! I"IsnIch III IlI'IIIIIIIIIII' \IIII IIgIIiII>l lIiIII :IIIIl
ull IIII' lIu.~.~"i IIs \Ilm. III IIiII. III-I"I- IIIiacII-IIIIIS IIIIII I 'lui. '.1\II.\

'l'lII- gIIII' lllOl. slill IIIIII '1", mid IIIIIIilIIIII.r Io II. I'llu' :I IIII' II II III" In
lI:I\I: any IIIIIIsIt III \IIII" :IIlI'gml III llI' giiIIi II) lIiIII IIII' (_ 7.III IIIIIiIIg
siriI II)" II II"'( II lll('ll| III III' II Ill('- (IOIIIIIII-"IIIIII-IIuIIII'I" \IiIII L:('IIIICII('\S
IIIIII IiIili:_\". .IIII'II IIII III inII In" IIIII gUUIl \\'(|ILI5 lIc CUlIld. [\I. last.
IIL' IIIIII IlII-III IlII'rI' \IIIs IIII'IIIIVIIII gIIiIc IIIIIIIrII JIIISIIiII IlIzII morn-
ing. IIIIII IIIIIMIIS il \\:l\ some III IIII III who IIIIl IlnIII: IIIIIIII this
iIIjIII") - :IIIII llIIII if LIII'V \mulII III' SIIIISIII'II \I"il.lI IIIIII III' \IIIIIIII sIIIIl
"I"II! IIII III III inIIIIiII- iIIIII iI. 'llIis .s IIIII-Il MI I III IIIIIIII II "INC;
and III-I-"IIIIIiIIgIv IlII- _I.IIII."IIIIIII" SI'III III'IIII' 11>, IIIIII r: us II IIIIIIiI-ulur
IIII'UIIIII III)" iIII~ IliiIIg \I'Iis- iIIIiIIIIIIing \IiIlIII._IIIIII iI IIIII" III IIIII'
CIIIIIIIIII lIIIIl llUlM' ii, IliIII' .xlIIIulIl IIIIIIIII [III II" (Isc.I|II'. . IIIII IIIIII \I'~lII"
"III" III: IIIIIl IlIIIIII it or Ii" "(3 slIIIIIIIl IIIIIL IIlI Ilic lIIIsII' IIIIIIIIIIJ
IIIIII um: IIIISSIIIII'; IIIIII llI.Ii. III the "win IiIIII', III would III-I"II llicm
in IIIII us lulu: IIs III' ('Uuld

IIIIS\ \I'I'_\ lIiIIIIIly in "W. gIIIIInIIIr: II()\\'ci(!r, when iI CIIIIIII
II) IIII'. (.III'IHIIII. Illl' I"II "II." IIIIIIIIIlI" l\III II" IIII_\IlIiII I III "III IIIIIIII-I . IIIId
us IIII" IIs IIIIII III-I "I- I'IIilIy. \\'I'. III-I'I- lIIIIsI III III IIIIslIIcIIIII. How-
C\'I".I IlII: IIIIIIIIIiII III IlIc II:IIII\":III I'ui" ll|(' IiIIII' IIIIIII IlII: lIiIIl "ml the
gun I'IIIII' I.I.I\"II us, and "'l' IIIIII'llI'Il ["0 Il. Q's IIIIII I.\I"II lllf'lII'i \IiIlIIIIII,
any I-IIIIsiIIvI: IIIII- sIIIp. :IIIII IIIIII \\I' lay III .I villa-rt: called I' lnlIIIIs:
IIIII IIIII \\(' IIIIIkI- Iun IIIII'.r sIIIp IM'I'C. liIII IIILNIIIIIII Ull IIIIIIII"ds .IIIIII-
\VIIII'I, IIIIIIIIIIr ()I IIiII. (.'z.II~ III' MIIsIIIIu s coluIIivs. .IIIII \\'I|L'l('. \I"II
C\[N("IHI \III sllUlllIl III' sIIII". lilll. u IIIII lllL' sI-CIIIIII day" s IIIIIIIII
IrIIIII l'lIIIIIIIs, l)_\" Ill(' I'IIIIIIls of dusl III IiIIII us III. II IgIIIII (IISIIIIII'I'
SIIIIII- ()I ()III' pIII III' lIIIgIIII III III' SI' IIsilIII'. "('- \\"I~.Ic pursued. \\ I: II.III
on" red II "I'I III II'MIII. .IIId IIIIII pi] II In' :I ng-III. IIIkII IIIIIII'II SI-III llllxs
(NII', "III'n \I"c LINEII'I'IVL'II II \crv gu- II l)()Il_\' of horse IIIIII: I"II on IlIII
OIIH'I' siIIc OI the. lake, to IlIiI uIIrIlI. ""0. travelling west. \l'c
OIISI'II'I'II IIII-y \IIIIII IIII'v "est, us we did but. lI.I.Il supposed we
\IIIIIIII II \H' IIIkInIIIIII siI I III the lIIkII, \\"lII I"I'IIs ""0 very lump") look
IIIII IIIIIIIII side; and in two dms more (My IIISIII)])I'ZII'C/'II II'JIull: II)!"
IIII)' leiIII'iIIg \\I' \\'('I'('. still III IOH' Ilicm, pII>IIIIII on till IIIcI' CIIIIII-
III iIiIt rivri' lI.lIl.I. II \('I\' gII III I'iVI'l' \rIII'II iI. IIISSI-s IIIrIlIcI' IIOI',lIl
buI "III'II "('- ('I IIIII: I0 iI we IQIIIId iI II: Irrmv IIIII I'I)I"IIIIlIlI.-

'llII: third day, they had either Iouud IlIeiI" mistake, or IIIIII intelli-
gence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the
erenitw. We had, to our great satisfaction, just iitched upon a
place (gr our camp, which was very contenient for t to night ; for as
we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was
above live huttdred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, in-
deed, expected none but. the city Jarawena, which we had yet two
days' march to: the desert, however, had some few woods in it,on
thls side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that
we pitched our camp for that. night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.

Nobod knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it
was usuu for the Mogul 'l'artars to go about in troops in that
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselw-s every night against
,betn, as against armirs of robbers; and it was therefore no new
thing to be pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little
rirulet running just below our front, so that we could not be sur-
rounded, or attacked in any way but in our front or rear. We took
care also to make our front as strong as we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, all in a line on the inside of the
river, and telling some trees in our rear.

in this posture we t-ncamped for the night; but the enemy was
upon us before we had finished our situation. They did not come
on its like thieves, as we on ieeted, lint sent three messengers to us,
to demand the men to be telivered to them that had abused their
priests, and burned their god Clltull Chi-'l'hanngu with tire, that. they
might burn them with tire; and upon this, the ' said, they would go
Away, and do us no further harm, otherwise they would destroy us
all ()ur mett looked very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces:
but iltI/ltll/I/ was the word: Imlmdy (lid it. The leader of the caravan
sent word he was well usstu'ed that. it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were p 'ttct'tlblc merchants, travelling on our busi-
ness; that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and
that, therefore, they must look t'urt her for their enemies who had
injured them, for we were not the people; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend ourselves.

They were far from oeing satisfied with this for an answer; and a
great, crowd of them came running down in the moming by break
of day, to our camp; but. seeing us in st ch an unaccountable situa-
tion, they dnrst come no farther tho-J the brook in our front, where
they stood and showed us such it number that indeed terrified us
rery much: for those that. stoke least. of them spoke of ten thou-
sand Here they stood and 00de at us awhile, and then setting up
a grout howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were8M- MH'EN'YlTltI-is or uouixsox unusoia.

\wll cnnugh hu'tilictl for that, for \\'r shrllcrctl nmlur our lmggngc,
innl I do not l'l'ttlt'llllll't' lhul. our of its was hurl.

Sonic tinn 'tcr this. \i'r saw thcnt ium'c n litllc to our righl. nnd
cxprrml tlicm on Ilu- rrar; \rln-n a cunning h-llmr, n. ()ossnnk ol
Jurmn-na, in tln- pay of Ilic Muscorilcs, calling; to tho lcath'r of the
caravan. 'tl to him. " I'll gnsrxnlall lhrsopro ilcuwa)" lo Silicilku : "
this nus a city l'our or lirr (l. 's' jourln'y at rust to (In! right. nlnl
rnthrr lN'lImtl nan Sn hr lnkca his limr mnl nrron's. :nul grttinu on
liol'schack. hr l'itlt'S away from our rrar tlii'cctl'v, us it. \\'crc lunch to
Ncrlzinskoi; al'tcr this, In: "thus it grcnt. circuit. about. and contra
(lircctly on thc army of lhc 'lai'lnrs. as if hc hail ln'rn srnt. cxprcsa
to tcll lllt'ltl a long story. that Ihc pt'oph' who had hurnvd tho (Ihiun
('-hi--'l'haun;:n n'rrr goon to Silicilka, \\it.h n carnrnn ol' iniscrcztnts,
us hc ('allt'll lllt'lll. that is to .xar. Christians; tllltl that. thcy had
I't'Sllth'tl lo lntrn lll'.' :zotl SclIal-l n 1:, hclongiug to thc. 'I'nnguc. .

.-\.~zthii 'cllon n'a ltllllSt'll..'|lll('l'l" . 'tal'.:nnlpcrl'cctlyspoknthuirl. n-
5: "r, in' rnuulrrl'citctl so "'0". that llic" all look it from him. mid
away Ihvv tll'n\'(' in a most violent hurry to Silicilka. which. it. scctns,
was lirc ilnys'jout'ncy to thc north; and in lcas than thrrc hours
tln-y n-crc t-ntirrly out. of our sight. aml wc nrri-r li 'at'd tiny morn
of l-llt'lH. nor nhrtlu'r lln')' \vcnt to Sihcilka or no. So "1' piinsrd
tum-\- sut'cly on In Jaraurna, whcrv thcrc "as n garrison of Muscu-
\'ilcs. :nnl Ihrrr \n' rc>tctl I'm: ilzn's. Ihc c.- 'a'atl living oxcnntlingly
[Eniguctl \ritli tlir laml. tlays' liaril march, and with want. of rest. in
Inc night.

From this city "*0 had it frightful (Insert. which licld us tn'cnly-
l-hrcc (lays' march. \\'c l'nrnisln'tl onrsrlu's with some touts ln-rc,
for thc hrtJrr accmnlnndatin}; oum-lu-s in tlu- night ; and thc. Icatlcr
of thc 'arnrun prm-urcil sixtcrn ca <<iagcs. or n'aggunsol' the country,
for carrying our wan-r or provisions; tllltl thnsc 'tn'riugcs \vnrr our
tlrl'cnvc. (m rv night. round our littlu 'flltlll; so that hml tlu ' ~n'lars
ximi-urrtl. nnlcss thcy had lint-n rcry unincrous intlcrd. Llicy would
not him: liccn alih: to hurt. us.

"'0. may "1-" hr summsml to want. rcst. again aftci' this long: jour-
nr'y : for in this lll'Sl'l'l nc noithvr snn' housr nor trcc, mul scarce a
lirvh: Uinugh n'c saw nhtnnhuu-n nl' Ilu- Mililc-lninlcrs. who are all
'l'ul'tma "i tltc Mogul 'l'in'lnry. of which this country is it part ; nud
Lhcy l'rcanntly nttnck small ca 'araus, hut "'0 sun; no numbci's of
lhctn togrlnct'.

Afici- nu lIlltl pnssrtl this (lcsci't.. \vc cnmc. into a country pretty
ncll inhaliitul; thin is to saw. "'0 found towns and custlcs, srtllcd
by thc. ('Iar nl' Muscory. with garrisons ot' stutionary snldicrs, I0
prolcct tlu- ram 1"". and ih-l'rnd tln- country against tlic'l'artnrs,
who would L)llt|'l'\\'l.\t inakc it. wry tlnngc'uux trawlling; and his
czai'isli niajrsly has :iu'n sut'h strict. ortlrrs for tho \\'cll guarding
tlic caravans and mvrrliants. that. if Micro are any 'I'nrtars licard of
in the country, tlrtm'lnurnts of the gari'isons am: always suit to sue
the travellers safe. from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, by
means of the Seots merchant, who was acquainted with him, oll'ered
us a guard of fifty men, it' we thought there was any danger, to the
next. station.

I thought, long before. this, that as we came. nearer to Europe we
should find the country better inhabited, and the people more civil'
ized; but 1 found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet the
nation of the 'l'ougacses to ass throu rh, where we saw the same.
tokens of mganism and burliarity as before; only, as the were
conquered iy the M useorites, they were not so dangerous; "t f'fl'
rudeness of uuuuiers, and idolatry, no people in the world ever went
beyond them: they are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their
houses are built. of the same; you know not. a man from a woman,
either by the ruggedness of their eonntenaneen or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
umlergrouml in vaults, which have. cavities ring from one to an-
other. If the ' 'nrturs had their Chain Chi-'l' iauugu for a whole vil-
lage. or country, these had idols in every hut. and every cave: in-
rules, they worship the stars. the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a
word, every thing they do not. understand, and they understand but
very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing, sets them
a saeritieiug. l met With nothing reculiar to myself in all this
country, which I reckon was, from tie desert. 1 spoke of last, at
least four hundred miles, hall' of it. being another desert, which took
us up twelve (lays' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as
bread. . After we were out of this desert, and had travelled two
days, we came to Janezay, a Mnseovite city or station on the great
river .lauezay (Yeuisay), which, they told us there, parted Europe
from Asia.

Here 1 observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Moscovite gurrisons; all the country between the river Oby and
the river Janrzay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest ot' the 'l'artars; any, as any nation in Asia or
America. I also found, which 1 observed to the Muscovite govern-
ment ; which they acknowledged was true enough ; but that, as they
said, was none of their busuwss; that if the Czar ex ted to
convert. his Siberian, 'l'onguesc, or Tartar sub'ccts, it shoal be done
by sending clergyman among them, not. so (tiers; and they added
with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
it was to make them subjeels.

From this river to the great river Ohy, we crossed a wild unculti-
vat-ed country, barren ot people and and management; other-
wise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitfiul, and agreeable country.

What inhabitauts we found in it are all pagans, except such as are
26' x
mi. among: them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on
both sides the river ()by, whither the Muscovite rriminuls that are
not put to deal ll nre banished, nnd from whence it is next to impossible
they should ever come away.

I have nothing material to say of my particular ntl'airs till I cum

, ' . . . x. . . .
to loholskt, the capital cit y of bibenn, where 1 contmncd some tun
on the following occasion. !

We bed now been almost seven months on our journe , an '
winter begun to come on npuec; whereupon m pnrtner and lyealle
a couueil about our mrlienhir alliiirs, in which we found it pro ie
as we were bound to EURugland, and not for Moscow, to consider ho
to dispow of ourselves. They told us of rein-deer to carry us eve
the wow in the. winter time; and, indeed, they have such things
that. it would be. incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the. Russians travel more. in the Winter than they can in
summer. as in these sledgt 3 they are able to run night and dnv; the
snow being frozen. is one. universal covering to nature, by which the
hills, rules, rivers and lakes are all smooth and hard us a stone. and
they run upon the surface, without any regard to what. is underneath.

Bull 1 had no oeension to push at n winter journey of this kind; I
was bound to England. not to Moscow. end my route lay two ways;
either I must go on as the euruvuu went, till I come to Jarcsluw, and
than go oil west. for Nnrvn and the Gulf of Finland, end So to
Dantzte. where. 1 mi ht possibly sell my China cargo In good advantage;
or 1 must leuve tlie caravan at a httle town on the Dwiua, from
whence. I had but six days by water to Arehnngel, and from lheueo
miwht be sure. of shi illlllg either to England, llullaud, or Hamburgh.

Row, to go any ol these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous: for its to Danlzie, the, Baltic would have. been frozen
up. and I could not. get passage; end to go by land in these coun-
tries was far lens safe than mnong the Mogul 'l'urturs; likewise, to
go to Arehnngel in ()etober, all the ships would be gone from thence,
and even the. merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
hlle-(HV in the winter, when the. ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of
provisions, and must lie In an empty town all the winter; so that,
upon the whole, Lthonght it nun-h my better way to let the eurzu'nn
go, nnd Inuke irorision to winter where l wus. at 'l'obolski, in
Siberin. in the latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of
three thin *5 to Wear out a cold winter with, \'iz, )leuty of provisions
such as t. to country :ltl'orded, a Warm house wit fuel enough, and
excellent. company.

1 was now in quite a ditl'erent climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when I had my nguc; on the con-
trary, I had mneh to do to hear any clothes on my back, and never
made any lire lltll without doors, whic; was neeessnrv tor dressing

my food, &e. New 1 made me three good vest>>, with huge rebel
or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to nmke them sulfieiently
warm. . '

As to a warm house, 1' must confess I greatly disliked our way in
Eu rhmd of making tires in everv room in the house in open chimneys,
which, when the lire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate; but tnking nn apartment in a good house in the
town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke
went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and
all the rooms were kept e unlly warm, but no lire seen, just as they
"will. the be nios in Englnu . By this means, we had ulws s the same
climate in n I the rooms, and an equal heat was preserve ; and how
('nld socver it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we
saw no fire, nor were ever ineonunodcd with smoke.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I
thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
nhroud without being wrnpped in furs, and a musk of fur before my
face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for eight ;
the little duylight we lnul was, as we reckoned, for three months,
not above five hours a. day, and six at most; only that the snow lying
on the ground coutiuuulli, and the weather clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were opt, or rather starved, underground, and
as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves our!
horses, we had, every new and then, their fingers and tees to thaw
and take care of, lest they should mortify and full olf.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton and of the bull'uloes, which is (pretty good meat. All
the stores of provisions for the winter are lai up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqumvita: instead of
brandy ; and for a. treat, mend instead of wine, which, however, they
have excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad ull weathers,
frequently brought us in line venison, and sometimes besr's flesh, but
we did not much care for the last. We bud a good stool: often, with
which we lreal ed our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and well,
all things considered.

It was now March 15; the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers begun tg'yirepare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get things re to be
going: but. my measures beinn fixed, as I have said, 'or Are angel,
and not for Muscov or the Bziltie, I made no motion; knowing very
Well that the ships rem the south do not set out for that part of the
world till May or June, and that if I was there by the beginning of
August, it would be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away;308 Anvmvroaas or nomasmt cuttsott.

and therefore I made no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word,
18th a great. litany people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me.
It seems, e ' . '_\_' year they go t'rom thence to Museorv for trade. viz.
to carry furs and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them
to furnish their shops : also others went on the same errand to Arch-
angel -. but then they all being to come back again, above eight hun-
dred miles, wenl all out before me.

In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack up; I
had bought a considerable quantity ol' sab as black fox-skins, tine
ermines, and sueb other furs as are very rh in that eitv inexehauge
tor some. at the goods 1 had brought from (Anne : in p, lieular for the
cloves and mumegs. of which i. sold the greatest. part here, and the
rest. afterwards at .'\rehan;'el. for a much better price than I could
have got in London; and my partner, who was sensible ot the protit,
and whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the tratfie we made
here

it was the. beginning: ol' June when 1 left this remote place, a city,
I believe, little heard at in the world : and, indeed, it is so far out. of
the road of emmneree. that. l Lnow not how it should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a very small eararan. baring only
thirty-two horses and camels in all. We had new the worst and the
larxrest desert to pass over that we met. with itt our whole journey ;
1 tall it the worst, beeanse the. way was very deep in some places,
and very uneven in others; the best. we had to say for it was, that
we thought we. had no troops of 'J'artars or robbers to tear, and that;
they never came on this side the river Uby, or at least but very
seldom ; but we. found it otherwise,

We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama,whieh
in these parts is the boundary between l'iltl'tipc and Asia, and the lirst
city on the European side was called b'oloy Katnskoi, which is as
much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we
thought. to set, seine, evident. alteration in the people; but. we were
mistaken: for as we had a vast desert to pass, which is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but. not. above two hundred miles
over where we )assed ll, so, till Wt' eamo past that. horrible place, we
found very litt e tlitl'erenee between that country and the )logul'l'ur-
tary: the people. are mostly pagans, and little better than the savages
ot' America; tbrir houses and towns full of idols, and their way of
tiring wholy barbarous, except. in the eities, as above, and the villages
near them, where they at Christians, as they call themselves, of the
Greek clutreh'; but have. their religion mingled with so many relics of
superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from more
sorcery and witebe 'at'tn .

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our
dangers were. to our imagination escaped, as below.) have been plun-
dered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop ol' thieves : 0!
what eonntr they were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were
all on horse )ack, carried bows and arrows, and were at first about
forty-five in number: they came so near to us as to be within two
musket shots, and asking no questions, surrounded us with their
horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice: at length they
named themselves just in our way ; upon which we drew up malittle
line, before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all ; and being
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out a Siberian servant, to see
who they were. The man came up near them with a tin of truce,
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their nguur'es,
or dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word trey
said: however, after some si ms to him not to come nearer to them,
at his peril, the frllow came aek no wiser than he went :' only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Torture of Kal-
nnick, or of the Circassiun hordes, and that there must be more of
them upon the great desert, though he had never heard that any of
them were seen so far north before.

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and
rode round our little wood to see where they might break in; but:
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again; and we
resolved not to stir for that. night.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there
"as on our left hand, at. about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
pr <<we, and very near the road: I immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could
there: for, first, I considered that the trees would in a rent measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place, t icy could not
Came to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this cxeelleucy attending him,
that he was always rendiest and most. apt to direct and encourage us
in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what
Speed we could, and gained that little wood ; the 'l'artars, or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the
one side a very rent spring of water, which running out in a little
brook was, a lit! 0 farther, joined by another of the like size; and
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this spring were not above two
hundred, but very large, and stood retty thick, so that as soon as
we got in we. saw ourselves perfect y safe from the enemy, unless
they attacked us on foot.

While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement. our Portuguese,
with some help, out several arms of trees half off, and laid them
hangenw <<(tress from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced no
in. About two hours before night they came down directly upon810 mvemenes or ROMNSON envsoe.

us; and though we had not perceived it, we found they had been
'oined by some more of the. same, so that theyr u ere near fourseoro
llorst'; whereot, however, we fanei-d some were women. The!
man: on till they were within hall'shot. of our little wood, when we
fired one musket. without. hull, and called to them in the Russian
tongue to know what. they wanted, and bade them keep off: but
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not. imaginin

We were so lmrrieaded that they eonld not. easily break in. Our elil
pilot was our eaptaiu. as well as our engineer, and desired us not. to
tire upon them till they came. within pistol-shot, that We. might. be
sure to kill; and that when we did lire, we should be sure to take
good aim: we bade him give the. word of conunnnd, which be
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes'
l: ugth of us when we let. llv. We aimed so true that we killed tour.
teen of them, and Wounded several others, as also several of their
horst -; for we. had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bulle .. ll- least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated imme-
diately about. one hundred rods from us, in which time. we loaded our
pieees again, and seeing them keep that distanee. we sallied out, and
eatehed tour or live. of their horses, whose riders we supposed were '
killed; and comingr u t to the dead, we judged they were 'l'arters,
but knew not how tiey mm: to malt: an excursion of such or
unusual length.

We slept. little, you may he sure, but. 5 cut: the mmt part: of the,
night. in strengthening our situation, ant barriexuling the entrnnees
into the wood. ainl keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight,
and when it eanw, it gave. us a very nua'eleome discovery, indeed;
for the. enemy, who we. thought. were tliseom'agetl with the. reception
they met. with, were now gr 'atly increased, and had set up eleven or
twelve. huts or tents, as if they were. resolved to hesiege us; and
this little camp they had pitched upon the o ten plain, about three
on: as of a mile from us. We were indeed surprised at 'his
discovery; and now, 1 eoutess, i gave myself over for lost, and all
that. I had; the. loss of my ell'tels did not lie so near me, though
very considerable, as the. thoughts of falling into the hands of sneh
barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, after so many dillicnlties
and hazards as 1 had gone through, and even in sight of our port,
where we expeeted safety and deliverance. As to my partner, he.

'as raging, and deelai'ed that. to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and that he would rather die than be starved; and be me for
lighting to the last drop.

We spent the dav in debates of what. We should do; but towards
evening we found that. the number of our enemies still increased, and
we did not know but by the Inorniuf,r they might. be a still greater
number: so 1 began to enquire of those people we had brought
from 'l'obolski, if there were no private ways, by which we might
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get
help to guard as over the desert. the Siberian servant, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would enga re to carry
us oll' in the night, to a way that went north, towarts the river
l'etron, by which he made no question but we might. get away, and
the 'l'artars never the wiser. l told him that if he thou ht it.
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to 0 but
to attempt it, and we innnediately prepared for putting it in
auction.

I And, first, as soon as it be an to be dark, we kindled a tire in our
little camp. which we kept urninr, and prepared so as to make it
burn all night, that the 'l'nrt-ars mig ll conclude we were still there ;
but as soon as it. was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not. stir before), having all our horses and camels ready
loaded, we followed our new guide, who I soon found steered
himself by the north star.

After we had travellt-d two hours very hard, it began to be lighter
st ill ; not that it. was quite dark all night, bill the moon began to
Iise, N) that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be,-
but by six o'clock the next morniing we were got above thirty miles,
l).t\l'll)_" almost spoiled our horses. Here we found a Russian villa 7e,
nainet Kennanzinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of t to
kalmuck 'l'artars that day. About two hours before night. we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hard as before: and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river, called Kirtza, and came to a good large town inhabited by
ltu. inns, called Ozmuys: there we heard that several troops of
Kalamcks had been abroad upon the desert, but we were now culll-
pletely out. of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.

love we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and having need

enough of rest, we stayed live days; and'hy partner and I agreed to
give the honest. Siberian who had brought us thither the value of
ten pistoles. '

In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzogda,
and running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily, near the
end of our travels by land, that river being navigable, in seven days'
pas-save, to Archangel From hence we came to Lawrcnskoy the 25d
of J u y; and providing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a
hargc lor our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five months, and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
at 'l'obolski. We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks
for the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had
not an lininhurgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when after some consideration that the city ol
Hamburg might ha )pen to be as good a market for our goods as
London, we all too freight with him. '
We then set suil from Archangel the 20111 of August, the same
year; and after no extruurdimlry bud voyage, urrived safe in the Ellie
the 15th of September. Ilere my partner and I found u very good
5an fur our gonds, us well these of China, as the snhles, &c. of
Siberia; mid (livirliur' the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundrei mid seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three venee, including about six luuulrcd pounds worth of
dianmmls "illich I purchased at Bcngul.

To conclude, having stayed nenr four months in Hamburg-h,
I came from (hence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the
ucket, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, hnvin

Even absent from England ten years and nine nmnths. And here
am, preparing for u longer jeurney thun all these, having lived a
a life of infinite vnriety seventy-two yours, and learned sullicicutl to
know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our (lint:
in peace.