>'=.""'7SS a.
UNL":

W.

 
  

z
a

    

   

     

  
 

._ \ fiwfifi '

m 2 f4 "' v-Immn am. e." .4

W HENRY LEA:-'l25 FLEETSTREET
~ >><< "w J ; ,, :i~--~'--"-=1.;' _7 7 V A H , 7'

mm--

  
   
   
   
  

   

I? ,

11"
.\

    
  
   

   
 

    
  
   

1. ,1,maxi- Tfiwm aomflss

A. m: 'SELEG'I'EZD PIECE 03' MUSIC
(With. an Ammpmfimmfor- Iii Pim- Fem.)

I'N PENNY NUMBERS WEEKLY, AND .HONTHLY SIXPENNY PART-S.
LONDON -- iENRY LEIS, 9.12, FLEET STREET.

 

(Established law.)
Thin Invourifle moneIII)' J'erieilcal has recently commenced II" NM? nun flitirnorxu' Ssiinfs'r A Spec};
Imm Number unnhby pm! for Sew." Stamps

V T915 CHRISTMAS :VQLUMB. pnhlishcd- 30W In uni; 600 pm. Ida:rnwd;_<4:., lanai-"mull
SiI'Iih-hlly- new"; '

PRIZE sl'IIDMCI--SIIcces-Iful competitor! In "to Mon: I'Ic rtmnIIm-nf IIIe;"'!"IilIIxn"r urn pm:
named will: l'riuu nIIIIuaIIy,' In the dupe u! Books. The gmphin: hum, Cemficaw'o offlerit, 6c. .
".6 ' . - .

ram>>!!! Emsrme 801.23.

. Mr. -r.. em.
mm>> 01- Evaluh'ng. 8n!

we? V >' ' "and am
<<pm - given [hum A Enos: up n: <<rm,
boll; I1 'wwu 14ml couulqj; and for flerxibIIib', wmfim, Aug>> .
inst, lhoy_ an: nix'nqndlbd. I my. uImI thin-I m brim", aII_ 'P
flmi III-m jun! nssne-um Iron: SIIppIal; n, 6in - MI I)
them the: do mu clu up wflzx nxst. ' '
"you". a h . H
mmwotbliguwm's cm 3' ' _ - ' . ,, ' _ muy (tunic-I, "limit" In. . -
u} E. cums, . - - ' , mini. Supexior <<um.

ljhulvglml .'IeI-Iueo. . ' . . has good, a . .
' ruched III (M IIIIoI-nnu'nnu Suulm chum; ' '
I "1'3 allgxnaiiflh'e kingdo ' Mmusfozvqududqm'fmpt
II '1' 6
it? waits 5" 0555": mil" p'arm an Vinita; um <<gallant '

W .
91w: m Sums--DA In- dw nrg cases of nlwm. wou'mh. . 1mm Mark" of An or oven. dracnmlon m odu'eel'

. noun" multmfiquv, an mas cumd b}- lhun Iv'loll-

1m. MWI'HII M M 1
n in finin. I am a M! I I75 In '

-: ulcer'uiad,' and bad I \Imuf'awfi w deh- lho I33: Ian-'55:; ' , ' '
8km. <<IchIIub' . umrl LII-i0 w [M Inminug, heal-II and WHITAKER. Dmlor' in Bn'iffsh [m1 mllivdsr
ratifying m" we of llollhwax'g Omlnmx 'ud Pill>>. lmy . 'L'II urn-M. Una>> Maker, ant! Ornamental Win; Worm. '

0

mute wilyaIquomth-Limmll III <<III-"Jeni, ll 9!) .I. I k .
uyillmhn and Imam-w, and run-umujlmi own! firm: at 1313 um (PS11391? fi3%$fi%flfi'"? I mlmqwfxuxtmfimgba

mum. who mm. vnIIwIl Imimouinla' no wan-any mm Cabinets hr Immfa' If gs. ecdn m was . 3;: hp ac-
'Irmn panama whom clmhoo dlmxnd to 1m Iowny'n' we and "on by Ilia publieie mageclmly Iufimn. U P

I win Nmfiifi. and which Moe-Md a (mm In>> m min aka; The busineaa of mo PaMu-cl llama: in femovml Io file. DIR-1
. lc-IIMINHPNPW 'hum'fih')' Ian-Em, --ealab1iohe41 was... 90-,CIInIIazle-Imst, Harpy-equate. '9

 

 

'0'umyoml' mm)" "11031119011 2:111:80 "
In Wonlil: Penny nfifim Mommy Sklmhy. Pnruq Jun A mm m 1101:: x611. 111311,:

CAPT M AYN E R EID 8 By Ordering N0. 58 I(p|1blishad March 91.111
" ' g ," 0.52.2.1 XLX. LX119, g THE 0011.10.11 JOUIN 1L,

m1} Number/mm mummmm 2130.311! other

'citmniwmns or 091.1111 1.1.1 .10",

  

'o ' 311mm * ' ' * " 11.? A: WEEKLY MAGAZME 70R EVERY HOME.
W" by 1'me $33; A??? W and my ' TX $111011 <<was 001mm .
The SGALP lIUNTERS; or, Adventures" in Northern. T H E W O O D R A N G E R S?-
_ , Mexico. . - _ 1311 mm 1111511111 11111117. "
C/ 3- mi"- N" 1km" F0" mm Aer 11? " WSW!) 111mm" " W110 Rim: 111111301!"
3 11C/ Isa 111110on by 1113 mm mummy-1.1.1.1..." 1n ' 5." 01100111," in;

Son-(hem Medan.

    

 

V'.
1 ' \ 7m: it, :11 3111011111"! 3111151111>>;
R b Penn 1' 11 m
W ,I'" Mmg'hhgwngmglngnifi'sm "all-y r115 AM (Hi Mali? Mic! Rm; Hum 'fim ((513 31 m;
T $01M; Fungi; 311T; Thiglsrilgf thewflino; o "211:?! "gal
I'm: l8-
ROBINSO\ CRUSOE. nggc cc mg mg>> g '
,. , BY DANlEL DEFOE. .1. 01111 21211111! mi 5
Baudfifnll;lllmd wilh'l'ngennfi alkarEnxmvinm wallpfinltxl SIXPEN'NY- PfiRTS MONTIILY.

an unperfine Toned hung formifig the bay}. Edition of this 110111;}
lax \\ ark ever 1mm).

 

 

   

 

 

kmuimwuunmvmmmnmom' .. SHAKESPEARE 'TER-OENTENAR'Y:
<<her Hoamhaysannumd infm 9m: on ()1: 31mm 6' ' ,
v _ M: Admnimamln. . -.'. . > .
_______, * W ; " my yiioiOm-flfilfiiug'." ' . ' "
, .'I'o be complehedm in Thirty Numbers. ' .

 

 

c ALL ALOUT .
'3 LIFE OFLORDNELSO\T SHAKESPEERB

f WITH ms 1mm, "mom. '1 _
film-M from Origin! minimum and other Authentic flenm 'W' HorusinY' MYSTERY"
11y camel 101111 nmmomm maxsm; . 3'" W 7"" "WWW by how Kiwi-'11 1

from 33:"in {in-pooch;

 
     
 

 

Embelliswi 11111; $111111 $111111!" augrabina's. ' . 1,, mgamm, 11!
, brainy Wei-Hy- ATM 181!!me royal 560. I ".7 :__r_. _-- . ~
no. 9 PM")?! GRATIS with Xv 1. in. a; Wrapper 11: 1mm; 1mm wins 811., am rare 01711111111113:
With No. 8'15 given ' 311" May and two mmnuom.

  

A Donald STKBI FORTRAN 01:10:11} "H190", '

11131161315 13y 'H'Afiniise' 3111111er
. :_'_ ~ ,V 1111" 1111111131111 . .
fink-901111311: (Economist, '- S 11 A K S P E 33' 13'

 

 
 

" - ' <<11.1111; 9's Riga, inmbliahod 1n Monuil', mg... pm>> 01;. m" f", m" "' 7 V
and Half yendylolumeu, mails: bound in dad-ll yrioa 81.63., will: BEAUTIFULLY IELUSTRATED.
annuity/m Engraving. - ' .- ".--

. OUR PRIZES. '
Saueeital Companion in the various aspen-anew of "the
i. ',"'an m prmnte'll wiih Prim mnallv in fire tha'p e of
' :Bn0u, Yhologmpl-it: Mimms, 'Cmifimea nl limit. (<<1. The c-
112:: at our Plan of bimnbmion are pulmihed in 1111.25,?!" 5W3 will 133' m 'g'n'od 'll'oid T1116, 111'an oiiuumr>> '
Jimmy, 18154, to which I0 mum the attenfiian of our fine Toned Papa. so as: m on the Minimum Pmkpi
nation sunkipnm ovar mmlucet. '

   

 

   

 

   

 

. , :Ig'l"'!!.:-1m'n!PSx-1'20.=111111111ch vein-1r, :m-uax.
N l
_ O

" . "I .h. ' .1 .1'33
ADVENTURES

'Ul'

ROBINSON "G-RUSOE.

KY

'Frv " DAflIELJNSSFOE

EMBELL1$HED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAViNGS.

AF'I'BE DESIGNS

_BY'T,J. J. GRA'SDVILLE, JOHN PROCTER

- AM) arms

'5: .

1 LONDON:

i 111mg? LEA, :12, F'LEK'L' STREET, Emu; AND ALL xmoxcsmnmxs.E:- 1147:1556";Mmheemieokiy} and si'irp'einy ms, Moifhifi; -

law? 1

       
     
    

 

  

 

 

 

SCALP"HUNTERS"

' I , '_.   QR, R0>>mmm:'

gamma "m "zwmmm Emma;
. by cxprAin'mxrnn'nnlmj

' , ' Mummy 9! "fing'iibovfxxnnns," "frat: madam>>? Law-min: nmgmu' "mix 1mm: gmsv,"lm

 

    

 

 

 

 

. . LONDON: __ . ., - V
'HENRY LEA AND 0'02, 112, FLEET .'SSSTR;1SSE'P,; 2.0;," _
AXD' 15mm 371? ML). .nookeuLLms'.' ' '1WAS 1mm in the year 1632, in She city of York, 0"
a good family, though not of that country, my filfllel'
being a foreignerxnf Bremen, who settled first at
Hull. He got a good <<state by merchandise, and,
leaving off his trade, lived uhcrwnnls at York; from
whence he had married my mother, whose. relations
were named Robinson, a very good family in that
country, and from whom I was canted Robinsan
Krcutznnm-; but, by the usual corruption of words
in Enghnd,we are. new called, nay, we call ourselves,

and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions

always called me.ADVE'STL'RE-'S- 0F ROBIKSON CRUSOE.

I haul two elder brothers, One of which was lieutenant-colonel to an English
regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly connnanded by the famous Colonel
Lochlnu't, and was killed at the bottle new: Dunkirk against the spawn-as.
What became of my second bmrher I never know, any more than my father
or mother did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the fwnig, and not bred to any trade7 my head begun

 

 

to be filled very early with rambling thoughts : my father, who was very ancient,
haul given me a competent share, of learning, as for as house education and n
country free-school generally 30, and designed me for the law; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to seat; and my inclination to this led me. so
strongly signinst the will, nay, tlic'comxnands of my father, and against all (he
entrenties nnd pcrsnnfions of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to
be something i'nial in that: propension of nation, tending diiectly to the life of
misery which was t!) hcfnl me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent counsel
against what he foresaw was m}- design. He called me one morning into' hi5:
chamber, whene- ho was confined by the gout, and espnstnlnted very warmly with
me upon this subject; he asked me what masons more than a mere wondering
inclination I had for lmving my father's house end my native country, where I
might he well im'iwluccd, and had. it prospect. of raising LILY fortune. by appliwtiuu
and inrlnsn'y, with a life of eaSo and pleusm'e. He told me. it was men of
despcmte fortune: on one hand, or of aspiring superior fort-mics on the other, and
uho went abroad upon advcnuues, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road; that these things
were all either too far above me, or too far below me; {hm union was the middle
s'iatc, or what might be called. the upper station of low life, which he had found,
by long experience, use; the best. state in the world, the most suited to human
happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings
of the mechanic. port of mankind, and not (imbue-weed with the 1n-ide,luxnr_v,
ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I might judge
of the happiness of this state. by this one thing, viz. that it was the state of
life which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented the
miserable consequences of being born to great dongs, and wished they had
been pluced in the middle of the two extremes, between the moon and the great;
that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just stnndazd of true felicity,
when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities of life
were shared mnong the upper and lower part of mankind; but that. the middle
station had the fewest-disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes
us the higher or lower part of mankind; may, they won: not subjected It) so
many distempers and micasincia, either of body or mind, as those were, who, by
vicious living, luxury, and extruvugunces, on one hand, or by hard labour, want
of necessaries, and mean or hisuflicicnt diet, on the other hand, bring distemper:
upon themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of yirtucs and nll kind of
eujuynieud; that peace and plenty we": the. hamhnaids of :1. middle i'omme;
that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all ngrecahle diversions,
and all desirable plenanrcs, were. the blessings attending the middle stntiou of life;
that this way men went silently and smootldy through the world, and comfortnhly
out of it, not cmlmn'assed with the labours of the hands or of the head, not sold
to a life of slavery for (hilly brand, or harassed with perplexed circumstances,
which rob the soul of peace, and the hody of rest; nor ourngod with the pns=ion
of envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition for grant rhiu_ '; hut, in easy
circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of

living, uithout- the hittur; feeling that. they are happy, and learning by every

 

 

day's experience to know it more snnsi .-

Afier this, he pressed mo earnestly, and in the. most. aliect-ionate niaixitcx~,1mt
to pin): the young man, nor to Precipimm myself into miseries which lint-urn: and
the station of lilo I was born in, seemed to have provided against; t.hnt.1 was
under no now-333k}? of seeking my brand ; that he would do well for me; and
endeavour. to enter me fairly inio the station of life which he had just. been
reconnnending to me; and that. it ,i was not very easy and happy in the world,
it must he my more into or limit. that must hinder it; and that he should horn
nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in u-'nrning me against
measures which he knew would he to my hurt: in a "'0le that as he would do w.) y
kind things for me if I would stay and sottio at, home as he directed, so he would
not have so much hand in my )'uisl'mfunos, us to give mo any encouragement to
go away: and to Glow all, he told me I had my older brother for an; example, to
whom he had used the same eat-neat persuasions to keep him from going into the
LOW Country wars, but could not prm'nil, his young desires prompting him to run
into the army, where he was killed; and though he mid he would not cease to
may for me, yet he would venture to any to me, that. if l did take this foolish Etep,
God would not. bless me, and I would have lcimro hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his counsel, when there might. be none to assist. in my recovery.

I observed in this last. part. of ma discourse, which was truly prophetic, though
I suppose my father did not, hnowit to be so himself; 1' say, 1 observer! the tears
run down his [Ewe 'vcry plentit'nlly, especially when he spoke of my brother who
was killed: and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to
assist me, he was so moved, that he broke all the discount>>, and told me, his heart
was so full he could any no more to me.

I was sincerely ufi'e/cted with this discoiu'se, as indeed who could be otherwise?
and I resolved not To think of going abroad any "mm, but to settle at home
according to my father's desire. But, alas! a. few days wore it all off; and, in
short, to prevent any 01' my father's :l'iu'thcr importunitics, in a few week's after,
I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I dltl not act so hastily
neither as the first heat. of my resolution prompted, but I took my mother, at a
time when _I_ thought her a little pleusnntcr than ordinary, and told her, that my

thoughts were so entirely hcnt npmi seeing the world, that i should never milk?

to anything with resolution enough to go through with it, and my father had

better give me his consent than force me to go without it; that I was now
eighloen yenm old, which was run late. to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an
attorney; that I was sure, it" I (lid, I should never serve out my time, but I
should certainly run away from my master before my time was out, and go to sea;
and if she would speak to my father to let me pp one \qrage abroad, il' 1 came
home again, and did not like it, I would. go no more, and I would promise, by a-
;loubln diligence, to recover the lime I had lost.

This put my mother into at great passion: aha told me, she knew it would he
to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject; that he knew too
n'ell what was my interest. ta giv >> his consent to anything so much for my hurt ;
and that, she wondered how I could think of any such thing after the. discourse
I hml had with my fnthex', and such kind and tender expressions us she knew my
 
 

father had used to mu; and that, in short, if I would win myself, then>>. was no
help for me; but 1 might depend I should never have their consent to it: that
for her part, she would not: hmc so much hmul in my destruction ; and I should
never hnve it to any, that my'mother was willing "hon my father was not.

T1101
that she i'epnriml all the discoumc. to him, and that my father, after showing a

h my mother refused to move it to my father, yet T heard afterwards,

  

great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, "That buy might he happy if he.
would stay at home ', but if he goes abroad, in: will he the most miserable wretxzh

that ever was born ; I can give no cunsunt to it."

It was not till almost a your after this that I broke louge, though, in the. mean
time, I continued ohstinutely Lleal' to all pmposnls of settling in business, mid
frequently cxpostulating with my father and mother about their being so positively
deterrinnud against what they knew my hiclixiatiuus prom'nml me to. But being
one day at Hull, whither I went casually, and without, any purpose of making an
elopemunt that time; but, I say, being there, and one of my companions being
going by sea to London, in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them,
with the common allui'cment of u. seavfarinp; man; that it should cost me nothingl;

 

 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOIQ.

 

for my pasmge, I consulted neither father nor mother :1ny more, nor so much as
sent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it. as they might, without
asking God's blessing, or my fatliel's, without my considm-atinn of cimnmsimiccs
or consequences, and in an ill how, God knows, on the flint of September 1651,
i went rm lmnrcl a. ship bound for London. Never any young advenrumr's
misfortunes, I believe, began souner, or continued longer than mine. The ship
was no sooner got out of the 11mm, but the wind began to blow, and the. .=_c.1
to rise in the most frightful manner: and, as I had never been at Sea. before, I
was most hiexpresisibly sick in hotly, and terrified in mind. I began now seriously
to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly T was ovmtnlccn by the judgment
of Heaven for my wicked leaving my falhei's house, and abandoning my duty.
All [he ,9,sz counsel of my parents, my fathei'a team and my )nollmr's (annuities,
came new fresh into my mind; and my conscience, which haul not yefi come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has buen since, iiepimchcrl me with the contempt
of advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went very high, though nothing
like whnt I have seen many times since; no,'nor what-I saw a few days after;
but it was enough to affect me then, who was but 9. young sailor, and had never
known nnything of the matter. I expected every \vm'c would have swallowed us
up, and, that every time the ship fell down, as 1 though: it did, in the trough. or
lmllow of lhe sea, we should never rise more: in this sgany of mind 'I made
many vows fl)l(l.1'csollltlons, that if it wnnld please God to spare my life in this
one voyage, if ever I got once my foot- upon land ziguin, I would go directly home
to my father, and never set it into a, ship again while I lived; that I would take
his advice, and never rim myself into such miseries as these an}; more. New I
saw yhinly the goodness Of his observations shoul- (lie middle station of life, how
easy, how comfortably he liaxl lived all his days, and never hail been exposed
to tempcsis at. sea, or tmubles on fil'lOl'e; and, in shaft, I resolved that I would,
like u. t'i'ue mpcnting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm laslml, and
indeed some time- ai'cex; but. the next, daunthc wind was abated, and lho Sm
' calmer, nml I began to he
a lilLlc imn'cd in it: how-
ever, 1 was very grnve for
all that day, being also a
little sen-sick sn'll ; hnt'fiawiiide night the weather cleared up, the wiud'wus quite
over, an-tl a charming fine-evenhig followed; the Sun went rlmvn perfectly clear,
and rose 2:0 the next morning; and liming little or no wind, and a smouth sea, the
Hun shining upon it, the night was, as I thought, the most. delightful that ever I saw.
 

I had slept well in the. night, nnd I was no more lieu-sick, but very cheerful,
looking with wonder upon tho, son that wns so rough and terrible the day
hol'ore, and could be so calm and so pleasant- in so little 0 time after. And
new, lost my good resolutions should continue, my companion who had indeed
enticed me away, comes to me, "Vl'ell Bob," says he, clapping me upon the
shoulder, "how do you do after it? I wzu'rant you were frightened, wer'n't you,
last night, when ii" hlcw but a cop-full of wind ?"--"'A cap-full d'you call it!"
said I; " ham; :1 terrible slorm."--"A storm, you fool you," replies he, "do you.
call that a storm '1 why it was nothing at all; give "S but a good ship and son-
mmn, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but you're hut a.
flesh-water sailor, Bob. Come let us make. a bowl of pnm'h, and we'll forget all
<<lam; d'ye see what. Charming weather 'tis now '3" To malio short. this sad part
of my story, we went the wny of all sailors, the punch was made, ,nml I was
made half drunk with it ; and in that. one night's wickedness I drowned all my
repentmm, all my inflections upon my past conduct, all my msolntinns for tho
future. In a word, as the sea was returned lo its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness lay the abatement of that storm, 50 the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears nnd apprehensions of being swallowed up by lho son lining
forgotten, and the current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the
vows and promises that 1 made in my dish-asses. I found, indeed, some intorvnls
of reflection; and the-serious iii-nights did, as it were, endeavour m rptnrn
again sometimes; but I shook them off, and roused myself from them as il: wm'o
from n distemper, and applying myself to drinking rmd company, soon mastered
the reiiu'n of those Ills, for so I called them; and I had in fire or six days got,
as complete a. ricl 1)" over my conscience, as any young fellow tlml: resolved not
to be troubled with it, could. desire; but I was to have another trial for it still ;
and Providence, as in gnch cnsns generally it does, resolved to nave nn: entirely
without cxcus': for if .l would not, take this for a. deliverance, the next was to

 

he such a one, n; the worst and ind-it hardened wretch among us would i-onl'css'

lmth ilm drumm- rmd the mom .

The sixth day of our being M 5051. \we came into Yarmonlh Roads; the "ind
hawng been contrary and the weather calm, we had made hug link: way sing-p
the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an nnchor, and here we 13)."; ill"
wind continuingr contrary, viz. ni south-west for seven or eight days, (luring
which time. a gront'mnny ships from Newmatlo came into the snme romls, as
the" common hmhonr where the ships miom wait. for a wind fox the fiver.

\r'e had- not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tidod it up the
river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after no hiid lain fmu' or five (lays,
blew rely hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good as o harbour, the

7 .

 

"7 "9,9, .. . , f. .lu,Muny%U<rflvw\PS' .

 

 

 

: e!
anchorage gnarl, and our gmmnl tackle very strong, our man were unconcerned,
and not. in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent. the. time in rest and mirth,
after the. manner of the son; but the eighth day in the morning, the wind
increased, and we lmrl all hnnds at work to strike our topvmnsts, and make
everything snug and close, that. ihc ship might ride as ensy as possible. By nm'n
1119 see went. very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle in, shipped several
seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home; upon whirl; our
muster ordered out the sheet anchor,- so that we rmlo with two anchors ahead
nnd the cables veered out to the better and. -

By this time it blew a. terrible storm indeed; and now I began to see terror
and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen them-
selves. The master, though
vigilant in the business of
preserving the ship, yet a;
he went in and out of his
cnhin by me, I could hear '
him softly to himself say,
several times, -" Lord be
merciful'to us! we shall he
all lost; we shall he all
undone l" and the like.
During these first. hn'm'os I
was stupid, lying-still in my
mhin, which was in the
stowage, and cannot describe
my temper: I could ill rc--
sunie the first penitence
which I had so apparently
trampled upon, nnd hard--

  

ened myself against : I _
lhought the bitterness of death had. been past; and that thin would be nothing
too like the first: but when the master himself cume by me, as I said just new,
and said we should he all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of my
cabin, and looked out; but such n dismal sight I never saw; the sea went
mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four minutes. When I could
look about, I could see nothing but. distress around ms: two ships that rid near us,
we found, had cut their masts by the honrd, being deep laden ; and our men cried
out, that '1 Ship which rid about a mile a--hcnd of us was foundeml. 'Ihvo more
ships, being driven from their anchors, were run out of lhe mud>> to sea, at all
adventures, and that not with :1 must standing. The light. ships fnrcd the host,
as not so much labouring in the sen; but two or three of them drove, and name
close. by us, running away with only their spritsail out before the. wind.

Towards evening, the mute and boatswnin begged the master of our ship to
let them cut away the fore-mast, which he was very unwilling to do: but the
hoatswnin pmtesting to him, that if he did not, the ship would founder, he
consented; and when they had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so

loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away also, and
make a clear deck.

Any one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was but a
young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at but a little. But if I
can express at this distance. the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in
tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former convictions, and the
having returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, than
I was at death itself; and these, added tn the terror of the storm, put me into
such a condition, that I can by nu words describe it. But the worst was not
come yet; the storm conunucd with such fury, that the semen themselves
acknowledged the}r had never seen u. worse. "'0 had a good ship, but she was
deep laden, and wallowcd in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried
out she would founder. It was my advantage, in one respect thut I did not
know who: they meant by "fomider," till I inquired. However, the storm was so
violent, that. I saw what is not. often seen, the master, the barman, and some
cthexs, more sensibln lhnn the. rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment
when the ship would go tolhe bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest of our distressos, one of the men that. had been clown on purpose to see,
cried om, we had sprung a leak ; another said, there was {bur fccl' water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. Al. that very word my heart,
as I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon the side of my bed
where I sat into the cabin. However, the men soon roused mo, mid told me,
that I, that was sble in do nothing before, was as well able to pump as anolh-w;
a: which 1 stirred up, and wont. to the pump and worked very heartily. While
(his was doing, the master seeing somo'liglit colliers, \i'ho, not alilf; to ride out the
storm, were obliged 1.0 slip and run away to the sea, and I'S'Oulll mum near us,
ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what they
meant, was so surprised, that. I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful
thing happened: In a word, ]' was so smprised, that 1 fall down in n. swoon.
As this was :1 time when every body had his own life to think of, nohody minded
me, or what was become of me; but another nmn slept up to the pump, and,
thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking mo dead; and it was a
gram. while before T came to myself.

We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it. was apparent that
the ship would l'nlmrlor; smd though the storm began to abate, a little, yet: as it
was not possible she could swim till we might run into any port, so the master
continued firing guns for help; and a light ship, who had rode it just n--hend of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came
near us ,1 hui it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near
the ship's side; till {it lost, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their
mes to save ours, our men ms: lhmn n rope over the stern, with u buoy to it,
and then veered it out it great length, which they, after much labour and hazard,
tool: hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and gm. all into their
boat. Tr. was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think of
reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to let her (hire, and only 'to pull her in
towards share as much as we could; and our master promised them, that if the
boat. was slaved upon shore ho would make it good to their master; so, partly
rowing, and partly driving, our boat went army to the northward, slopingtowards
the shore, almost as fnr n5 W'intcrlon Nestahe'e'wmw - __ m .'f 2 Wk

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRCSOE. 35/

 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship but we I
saw her sink, and. then I" understood, for the first time, what was meant by a. ship
thundering in the sea. I must nokumvledge I had hardly-eyes to look up, when
the seamen told me she was sinking; for, from that moment, they rather put me '_
into the boat,'than that I'might he snid to go in; my heart was, as it were, dead 3
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of '. ll
what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yo; labouring at, the our Lo bring
the boat. near the shore, we could see (when, our boat mounting the wares, M)
were oblc to see the share) a great. many people nmning along the Strand to assrst
us when we should come near; but we made but slow way towards the shore; l
nor were we able to reach the shore, till, being past the light-house nl Winterton, M
the shore falls off to the westward, towards C-ronmr, and so the land broke off a _l
little the violence of the wind. Hen: we got in, and, though not. without some
dilficulty, got, all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yurinonlh, i
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great humanity, as well by the
magistrates of the town, who assigned us good quarters, n5 by particular
merchants and owners of ships) and had money given us sufficient to carry us
either to London or back to Hull, as We thought lit.

Had. I now had the sense to have gone back to Hulh and have gone home, I
had been happy, and my father, an emblem of our blamed Surioin's parable, had
even killed the faded enlf' for me; for, hearing the ship I went away in, was cast
aunt};' in Yunnouth Roads, it was A great while before he had any asst 'illlCC'S that
I was not dromied.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with :m ohstinucy that nothing could i
resist; and, though I had several times loud calls from my reason, and my more
composed judgment, in go home, yet I had no power to do iti 1 know not who:
to call this, nor will I urge that. it. is) a secret overruling decree that. hurries us on
to he the "instruments of our own destruction, even though it he before us, and
that we. rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but, some such
decreed mnivoidnhle misery attending, and which it was impossible for me to
escape, could have pushed me Forward against. the calm rcnsnnings and persunsions
of my most retired thoughts, and against two such. visible instructions as I had
met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the master's
son, was now less l'orwnrd than I. The first time he spoke to me, after we were
at Yarnionth, which was not till two or three days, for we were separated in the
town to several qunrtem; I say, the first time he saw me, it nppearcd his tone
was altered, and, looking very melancholy and shaking his'heml, asked me hurt Idid, and telling his father who I was, and how I had come this \-' 'age only for a
trial, in order to go farther abroad: his father turning [0 mo with a very grave
and concerned (one, "Young man," said 110,-"3'011 ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought. to take this for :1 plain and visible token that you are not to he
a seafaring man."--"Why, Sir," said 1, "will you go to sea no more ?"---" That-
is another case," amid ho ; "' it is my calling, and, therefore, my duty; but as you
made this voyage for :1 trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what
you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has all befallcn us on your
account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continued he, " what are
you; and on what account did you go to sea"? " Upon that I told him some of
my Story, at the end of which he burst out with a sh'nngc kind of passion:
" What had I done," said he, "' that such an unhappy wretch ghoukl come into

my ship? I would not set my foot in the some ship with thee again for a
thousand pounds." This, indeed, was, as I snid, an excursion of his spiriis,
which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and we: further than he could
have authority to go. However, he afterwards talked very gravely to me,
exhorted mo logo hack to my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin;
told me'I might see a visible hand of I'Ieaven against me. "And, young man,"
said he, "depend upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will
meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are
fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him no more:
which way he went, I know not. As for me, having some money in my pocket,.. yangmwajw. ---." ' .

 

ADVENTURES'OF ROBINSON CRUSOF.

 

% I tmvelled'to London, by land; :hld tlierg'a's well ' the-road, had many

 

 

  

   

struggles with myself \Vl'lfltflOfilfig 'lilia I rhOuld'tak afielhi'hotlier I should go
home or go'to sea. , . W17 v ' 3 -" , "-, '
.l . As to going home, sllaxfle opmgiftlie' best 'niotirinrth'at iofferecl to my
A thoughls 3 and it. immediate riioccur'rezl'w me how 1 should he laughed at among
J the neighbours, and shouldbe uxlmmed to see, not my father and mother only, hut

 

even everybody clsc ; from whence I have sinux often observed, how incongruous
and irmtionnl the common temper of nmulu'xul is, especially of youth, to that
mason which ought to guide them in such cams, viz:, that they are not ashamed
3 to sin, and yet are nslialnccl to repent; not ashamed of the action for which they
" ought. justly to hetfi'leemed fools, but am ashamed of the returning, which only

i can minke them be esteemed wise men.

   
 

 

In this state of liic, however,
1 reuiahwd some time, uncertain
what measures to take, and what
tonne of life to lead. An ino--
Eistible reluctance continued to
going home; and, as I stayed
while, the remembrance of the _ , l
distress I had been in were off ; and, as that abated, the little motion I had in
my desires to a return were off with it, till at last I quite laid aside the
- ' though"; of it, and looked out for a voyage. " (V'-

 

Tlmt evil iuflnem'o which carried me first. away from my father's house, that

5 hurried me into the wild and indigostcd notion of hiking my fortune, and that .'
ll impressed those conceifs so forcibly upon me, as to make me. (leaf to all good i
1 advice, and to the entreatics, and even the commands of my father; I 53F, the
' same influence, whatever it was, phase-Med the most unfortunate of all enterprises
9 to my View; and I went on board a vuscl hound to the coast of Africa; or, as
j as our sailors mlgarly call it, a. voyage to Guinea.
)3

V ZemuxgC/1PS& M'w. ->> " ' "'34-:
. 7. . ..._ _ _\, "w

It was inygreat misfortune,-that in all these adventures l did not ship myself
as a, sailor; whembgyihpngh I might- indeed but: worked a. little harder than
ordinary, yet, at tile-same time, I had icamuhe duty and ofi'icc of a i'oremast
mm,- and in fiine'mighthaye qnnlifiedejiyself ftir a mate m: lieutenant, if not
for a mask/re 'But as it was always my fiztc to choose for the warm, so 1' did
here; for, having money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I Would
always gt) on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neiLher had any
business in the ship, nor learnt to do any.

It was my lot. first of all Lo fall into pretty gmd company in London, which
does not always happen to such loose and unguided young follows as I then was;
the devil generully not omitting (-0 lay some more for them very curly: but it was
not so with me. I first fell acquainied with the master of n ship, who had been
on the coast of Guinea, and who, having had Very good success there, was
resolved to go again 3. {his captain taking it fancy to my conversation, which was
not m. all disugreenhle oi that. time, hearing m'e. my I lmtl n mind to see the world,
told me if I would go the voyage with him, I should be at no expcncc; I should
be his messmata and his companion; find if I could mrry anything with me, I
should have all the advantage of it: that the trade would mlmit- and, perhaps, I
might meet with some encouragement.

I embraced the offer; and entering .into it strict fi'icndship with this captain,
who was an honest7 plain-dealing man, I went. the vnygqx: with him, and carried n
small adventure with me, which, by (he disinterested honesty of my Friend, tho.
captain, I increased very considembl '; for I carried about PS40 in such toys and

>triiles as the captain directed me to buy. This PS40 I had winters-Ll together by
the assistance of some of my relations whom I cormspondecl with, and who, I
believe, got, my father, or at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure.

'1' his was the only voyage which I may say was successful in nil my uclx'entiues,
and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain; under
whom, also, I got :1. competent knowledge of the mathematics, and the rules of
nurigatlon, learned hon= to keep an acmunt of the ship's course, take it" ohsen-nriou,
and, in short, to understand some things that were necdful to be understood by a
sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight. to learn; and, in a
Word, this voyage made me both it sailor and a merchant, for I brought home
live pounds nine ounces of gold-dust. f'mj my adventure, which yielded me in
London, at my return, nimnst: PS300, and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since no completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes (00; partienhuly, that. l was
continually sick, being thrown into a violent calentum by the excessive heat of

M
the climate, our principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of fillmn
degrees north, even to the line iixelf.

.l. was now set up for :1 Guinea trader; and my friend, to my grim: misfortune,
dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the sumo voyage again, and I
embarked in the same vessel with one who washis mate in theiformcr voyage,
and had now got the command of the ship. This was the nnlmppiest voyage
than. ever man made; for, though 1 did not carry quite PS100 of my new-gained
wealzh, so that .l lmd PS200 loll, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who
was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortuned in this voyage; and the
first was this, viz., our ship making her coumo inwards the Canary Islands, or
rather between lliose islands and the African shore, was surprised in the grow of
the momixw l)\-' a. Turkish revel, cl Sullee, "ho 0' n-e Llnlse. to us with all the sail
he (Eul'ild make. We crowded also as much cam .15; on our yards would spread, or
our masts carry, to have got clear; but finding the pimte gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in n few hours, we prcpnmd to fight; our ship
having twelve guns, and the rover eiglnccn. About. three in (llc afternoon he
came. up with us, and bringing 10, by mintnke, just athwart our (plane ', instead of
aliiwart our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of onrgnns to hear on that
side, and poured in a. broadside upon him, which made him slmor off again, filler
ramming our fire, and pouring in also his small'shot from near two hundred men
which ho. had on board. However, we had not 3 mm touched, all our men
keeping close. Ho prepared to attack us ngnin, and we to defend ourselves; but.
laying us on board the next time upon our oiher quarter, he entered sixly men
upon our decks, who inunedintely fell to cutting and hacking the nails mid
yign-ing. "7o plied them with small--shot, hzdf--pikes, powder-chests, and. such
like, and cleared om: deal: of them twice. However, in cut. short this molnnclmly

 

part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed, and eight
wounded we were obliged to yield, :uid were curried nll prisonen: into Salleo, a
pmt belonging to the Moors.

The usage 1 had there was not so dreadful as at first 1 apprehended; nor \1 as
I Carried up the county to the emperor's conr', as the rest of our men wow;
but wax kept by the. captain of the rmvmr as his proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for the business. At this surprising clnuiga of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a. miserable slave, I was pm-fcctly oven-
wltelmed; and now 1 looked back upon my fathm's pmphetic discourse to me, that
I Eliould ho 111isernble, nnd have none to relieve me, which I thought, was now so
effectually brought to pass, that I could not be worse. ; that now the hood of Heaven
had overtaken me, and I was undone without redemption ; but, alasl this wwhut
a taste of the misery l was to go through, aswill appear in the sequel of this story.<'

 

 

 

 

 

<<'9' Wafu'iawmmm , ,._ ;. . . arm's-flu:-
Q. ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
t, - V > _
" As my new Patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, so I was in
if hopes that he would take me with him when he went. to sea agnin, believing that
E it would some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portugal man

of war; mid that then I should he set at. liberty. But this hope. of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look
after the. ship. . '

Here I meditatetl nothing but. my escape, and what method I might take to
eifmt it, but found in) way that had the least probability in it: nothing presented

 

to make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate it to
that would embark with me, no fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or
Scotsman there but myself ; so that for two years, though I often pleased myself
with the imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting
it in practice" '

After about. two years, an odd circumstance presented. itself, which put the
old thought of making some attempt for my liberty, again in my head. My
patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship, which, as
I heard, was for want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftcuer, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnuce, and go out

(Flu--x; ' .:{-I>>s.hwe'-:"' ~' -A'-' " ' ' <<tn-Muiflfiemf 02X
into the road a--fishing; and us he always took me and a young Moresco with
him to DOW the bout, we made him very many, and I proved very (lextemus in
catching fish; insomuch that sometimes he would send me with u Moor, one of
his kinsmen, and the youth, the h'lnresrro, as they callcfl him, to catch a dish of
fish for him.

L1 he 1253312.]

It happened one time, that going n-fishing in a stark calm morning, a. fog rose
50 thick, that, though we were not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of
it ; and nowihg we knew not whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and all
the next night, and when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to seasacs-:-

e/x

LP:-

vain-hls-bfinwfi

 

instead of pulling infer the shore, and that we were at least two leagues from
the land; however, we got well in again, though with a great deal of labour and
some danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but,
particularly, we were all very hungry.

But ou1 patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of himself
for the future; and having lying by him the long-boat of our English ship he
had taken, he resolved he would not go a-tishing any more without a compass
and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an
English slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-
boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer and haul home
the main-sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails:
she sailed with what we call a shoulder" of mutton sail; and the boom jibbed
over the top of' the cabin, which lay very sou"!Ir and low, and had in it room for
him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small'lockers to
put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; and, particularly,
his bread, rice, and coffee. .

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and as I was most dexterous
to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It happened one day that he
had appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or
three Moors of some distinction_i1_1 that place, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily, and had, therefore, sent on board the boat over-night a lmger
store of provisions than ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three fuzees
with powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed some
sport of _fowling as well as fishing. '. .

I got all things ready as he had directed, and muted the next morning
uith the boat washed clean, her an'cient'and pendants out, and everything to
accommodate his guests; when hy-and- by my patron came on board alone, and
told me his guests had put off going, upon some business that fell o11t,a11d
ordered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and catch
them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his'house; and commanded
that as soon as I got some fish, .I should bring it home to his house; all which I
prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts, for
now I found I was like to have a little ship at my command; and, my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing business, but for a
voyage, though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither I should
steer; for, anywhere, to get out of that place, was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor, to get
something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must not presume to

is' 1.1 21:31:;-

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Y.

eat our patron's bread: he said that was true: so he brought a large basket of
rusk, or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I
knewvwhere my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while
the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for our master: I
conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into 'the boat, which weighed above half
a hundred weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a
hammer, all of which were of great use to us afterwards, especially the wax to
make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into
also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or Moely ; so I called to him,
"Moely," said 1, "our patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not get a
little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our
curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."--
" Yes," says he, "I'll bring some ;" and, accordingly, he'brought a great leather
pouch, which held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more ; and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some. bullets, and put all into
the boat: at the same time I had found some powder of my master's in the great
cabin, with which I filled one of lthe large bottles in the case, which was almost
empty, pouring what was in it into another; and thus furnished with everything
needful, we sailed out of the port to fish-.- The castle, which is at'the entrance of
the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us :Iaud we were not above a
mile out of the-port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to 'fish. The
wind blew from the N. N. E., which wa's'contrary to my desire; for had it
blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at least
reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would,
1 would be gone from that hor'rid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for when I had fish on
my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see them, I said to the
Moor, "This will not do your master will--not be thus served ; ' we must stand
farther 05." He thinking no' harm; agreed, and being in the head of the boat
set the sails , and, as I had the'hehn, Iran the boat out near a league farther,
and then brought her to, as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm,
I stepped forward to where the Moor-was, and making as if I stooped for
something behind him, I took him by slu'prise with my arm under his waist,
and tossed him clean overboard into the sea. He rose immediately, for he
swam like a cork, and called to me, beggul'to be taken in, told me he would
go all over the world with 'me} He swam so strong after the boat, that he
would have reached me very' quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-pieces I presented it

V'"4:ssil\

6:5

.4. butch-es

"L:=~:~i'?>>="\@ 53k":5>>. "Am-mm. .

    

ADVENTURES OF ROBIXSON (ZRCSOE.

  
   
   
    
  
  
  
 

Q at him, and told him .I lmrl (lone him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would
if do him "one: "But," said I, "you swim well enough to reach to the shore,
and the sea is Calm , make the bust of yolu' way to show, and I will do you no
harm; but. if you come near the. boat I'll shoot you thmugh the head, {or I mu
resolved to have my liberty?' so he turned himself about, and swam for the
shore, and I make no doubt but he reached il. with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have
drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. 'thn he was gone=
I turned to the boy, whom they called Kin-y, and said to him, " Xiu'y, if you

 

i
t '

   

i

will he fllithfill to me I'll make you a great man; but if you will not stroke vour

\l face to be true. to me," that in, swear by Mnlmmut and his father's hem-d, " I must
.. throw you into the sea Loo." The boy smiled in my face and spoke so innocently,
.

that I could not mistrust him, and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the
world with me.

While I Was in View of (ha Moor that was swimming, I stood out. directly f0

:1!)

g}
.4-
,J
sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the straits' mouth; (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must

have been summed to do) for who would have supposed we were sailed on to in:

southward to the. truly Barbarian coast, whore whole nations of Negrmzs n-

\'.
sure to snrmund us with their canoes, and drstroy us; where we could never

once go on short: but WC should he devoured by savage beasts, or more mercile=s
savages of human hind.

But as soon as it grew dusk iu the evening, I changed my course, and steered
directl}r south and by cast, bending my cow'sc >1 iittle towards the cast, that I
might keep in with the shore : and having a fair, Fresh gale of wind, and a. smooth
quiet sea, '1 made such sail that '1 bniicm by the next day at three o'clock in the
afternoon, when I fir't made the land, I could not he less than a hundred and fifty
,milns south of Suliee; quilt: lioynnd tin>>. Emperor of Moroccu's dominions, or,
indeed, of any other king thereabants, for we saw no people.

Yet such was tin: fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful nmirc-

hemiuns I had of falling
into their hands, that I
would not stop, or go on
shore, or come to an anchor ;
the wind continuing fair till
I had sailed in that mannu'
five days; and then the wind
shifting to thu southward,
I concluded :tlaO that if any
of our vessels were in chase
of me, tl' - , also would now
give over :. so I ventured to
null"), Ll) the C035" and COIHB
to an anchor in the mouth
of a- little river, I knew not
what, or where ; neither
what 1:) titudr, what country,
what nation, or what river:
I neither saw, or desired to see any people; the principal thing,r I wanted was
fresh water. "'e came into this creek in the evening, resolving to Swim on
shore as soon as it was: dark, and di over the country: but, as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises oi the barking, roaring, and howling
of wild creations, of We knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready tn die
with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury,"auxin-h.-

' 7-:

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRHSOl-I.

said i, "then I won't; but it may be we may see men by <<lay, who will he as

 

had to n: as these lions." "",l.'l:cn we give them the shoot gun," says Xury,

laughing, "make them run way." Such English any spoke by conversing

    

among: w: slaves. llonevcr, I was glad to see the boy so cheerl' , and I' gave
him a dram (out of our patron's case oi" bottles) to cheer him up. After
all, Xm

still all night; I say still, l'or we slept none ; far in two or three hours we saw

. advice was good, anrl I took it; we dropped our little anchor, and lay

 

vast great creatures (we knew not what to call them) of man)' sorta7 come down

i to the sea-shore and run into the water, wallowing and waahing themselves for lhc

pleasure of cooling themselves : anrl they made such lxizlcoui howlings and yelling,
that. I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully fi'ighted, and, indeed, so was I too; but we were both
more. l'righted when we heard one of these mighty creatures came swimming
(<<rank our boat; we could not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing
to he a monsrrom; huge, and furious beast ; any saitl ll was a lion, and it might
:riml to me to weigh the anchor and row

 

lie so for might I know ; lml' poor Xinjy

a: a ': " No," says I, " Xln'y; we can slip our cable with the buoy to it, and go

 

of? lo sea ; the ' cannot. follow as far." I had no sooner said s>>, but .l perceived
the creature (whatever it was) within two onrs" length, which something; sarpriaerl
me; however, I immodiatcl; stepped to the cabin door, and, taking up my gun,
fired at him ; upon which he innne<liolvl3r tin-nod about, and swam in the shore
agin. -

But it. was not; pnssihlc to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries and
howlings that were rm'sml, as well upon the edge cf the share, as higher within
the country, upon the noise or report of a gun; a thins-VJ I have some reason ((1
believe, "10in creatures hall never heard before. This convinced me that there
was no going on shore liar us in the night. upon that coast; and how lo venture on
5110": in the. Llaf was another question tau) , lin' 10 have fallen inta the hands of
any of the images, ha-'l been as hail as to have fallen into Illa paws of lions 11ml
tigers: at least, we

l'n': that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for

 

C'l'C equally apprehensive of the danger ol" il'.

Wafer, for we had not a pint loft in the bank; when or Where tv get it, was the
point. any saith if I would let him (1." on shore with one of the jars, he would
find if there was any water, and hrl; some to me. I asked him why he would
gal why I should not go, and he st in the boat? The boy answcml with so
much affection,_l.lmt. made me lure him ever after. S4138 he, "11' wild mans
come, they eat me, you go \my."-~" Well, Xury," sairl I, ' will both go, and
if, the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall cal. neither of us." So I

  
 

 

gm'e Amy :1 piece of rash bread to eat, and :1 dram out of our patron's case of
22
bottles, which] mentioned before; and we hmxlorl tho boat in as near rho. sharp

as we thought was proper, and waded on shore, can

 

lg nothing but our arms,
and two jar: for water.
1 did not. care to in) out of .'

 

_ll' of the heat, fearing: the coming of canoe;

 

with savages (lon'n tho rii r: lm-i the hov. seeing 11 low place. about a mile up

 

l i' t0"'PSl!'(l 5'

the country, i'ai'nlflirtl to in; and hy-anel-hy I saw him conic rum ' z:

me. I thought ho was pursued by EUHIC snmgv, or frightee with some wild
, and I ran f

to him, I saw some '

hon-- l lownrds him to help him 5 but, whom I came nearer

    

ltui (mg over hi5 snoulclcm, which was :1, cranium that
he lmtl shot, lilac. n hare, but different in i'olour and longer leg,"

7hr}. 0." i2,

l|1)'-\'L'.\"Ql'1

 

 

 

we were way r and it. was very good meat; but the great joy that

poor Xury came with, nag to tell me he hail firnul good water, mm seen no \Vllll
mans.

But we {build Simmonds that we rmml not tnlie arch pains. for water, for a
little higher up the creek where we were, we found the. water fresh when the tide
was out, which flows. hut a little way up ; so we filled our jars, and feasted on the

hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, lmvin V uen no footsteps of

 

any human creature sin that part 01' the count?
As I had been one voyage to the coast before, -T know very well that the

  

islands of the Canaries, and the Cape <<In Word islands also, lay not far all from
the coast. But. as I had. no in
latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or, at lensl, not. rememhm', what:

rx-'arion to know what

 

tr'unents to take an o

 

[mirnde they were in, and know not whcne to kink for them, or when to stand ul'i'
to sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have found some. of these
islands. But my hope \m that it 1 stoml along: this coast. till 1 camo- to that

part where the English traded, T should find some of their vetsels upon their usual

 

design of trade, that would relievn and take us in.

Bl' the has: of my calculation, that pinto where I now was must be that
country, which, lying.r between the Emperor of Morocvrfs clomiuious and the
as waste and uninhabited, except hv wild beasts; the negroes having

 

negroe:,
slmmlonecl it, and gone farther south, for fear of tho. Mom-s ; and the Moon; not
thinking it worth inhabiting, lay reason of its lmrrennesa--zuid, imlcoil, horh
im'snldng it hecanso of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards and other
furious crcntures, wh h harbour tlmre ; so that the Moors use it for their hunting
only, where they go like an army, two or three thousand men at a. lime--and,
intlccll, for near an hunched miles together upon this mast, we sow nothing but a.
Waste uninhabited country by (lay, nntl heard nothing but howlings and retiring
of wild beasts by night. I

Once or twice in the (lay-time I thought I saw the Plan of Tenerifl'e, being
the high top of the mountain 'I'euci-ih'c in the Canaries, and had n great mind to
venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but, having tried twice, I was forced
in again by contrary winds, the sen also going ton high for my little vessel; so I
remind to pnrsuo. my firs! design, and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged l." land for fresh water, after "'0 hml left this

place; and once, in particular, being early in the morning, we came to an anchor
under a little point of land, which was pretty high; smrl the tide beginning to
flow, we lay still to go further in. Kin-y, whom eye: were more about 'him than
it seems mine were, culls softly to mo, and tells me, that we haul. best gr.>> further

uh: Wanda! Lion;

off the shore: "For," says he, "look, yonder lime. 9. dreadful monster, on the side
of that hilhick7 fa'st nslenp." .I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful
monster indmzl, for it was a. terrible great lion {hat- luy on the side of the shore,
under the shade of :1 pieee of the hill that hung, as it were, a liltle over him.
"X11133" says I, " you shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked frighted,
and said, "Me hill? he eat me at, one mouth l"----one mouthful he meant:
however, I said no more to the boy, but bade him he still, and I took Olu' biggest
1'4gun, which was almost muxket'bore, and loaded
it will) a good charge of pewdm', nm'l wit-ll qu
slugs' and laid it clown; than 1 loaded :motlm'
gun with two bullets; and the tluiml~~fnr we
lm-l tln'ae pieces--I loaded with five smaller I'
bulkts. I took the best aim I could with the
firm piece to have shot him into the head, but

' he lny so with his ., raised a little above his

now, that the slugs hit hi3 leg about the knee,
and broke the bone. He started up, gmwling,
at first, but, finding his leg broke, fell down again, and than gut up upon three
legs; and g1; the most hid-eons your that. over I hmrd. I was. a little inn-prised
that I lunil nn'; hit. him on the head; howm'm, I tool: up the second picr'c
immediately, mid, though he hugs" to more nfi", fired again, and shot. him into
the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make hm little nnisn, hut lie

struggling for life. ThchXm'lv tuuk heart, and \I'nnltl have me let him go on

sh v. "' Well, .gv," snSrl I; an the hay jumped into the water, and, iakinrr a
little gun in one hand, swam to shore "hi: the mher hand, and, coming (low
to the cranium, put the inn-1.73.0. of the piece to hit our, nntl shot. him intn
the head again, which despaiclmd him quite.

This was game, indeed, to us, hnt. this was no fund; and I was wry may to
lnso (hrco. charges of powder and shot upon a creature that: was good for nothing
to us. However, any said he \vovlil hare acme of him; in he cumes nn hoard,
and asked me to give. him the hatchet. "For what, any ." said I. " Me cut. nii'
his head," said he. Hon-ever; Xi could not uni. of? his hand, hut in: out. oil~ a
"not... and brought it with hini, and )i.' was a monstrous gt'cfll one.

.I liathnught myself, however, that. perhaps the skin of him might: one way or
other, he of some value to us; and I msolveil to take off his skin if I could. So
Kin-y and I went to work with him; but: Xnty was much the better wurlunan at
it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it tool; us hath up the Whole day,
but at last we got. nft' the hide of him, and, spmading it on the 101) <<if mn- cahin,
the sun effectually (iriczl it in two (lays' time. and it ailerwanls served me to lie
upon.

Alley: this stop, we mmin an to the southward coutiiiaally for ten or twelve
days, living very sparingly nn our firm-kiwi; which began to abate- Y _ much,
and going no oi'lmim' inln the sham than we were obliged to (it) i'm' fresh water:
my Ll . :{u in this was, to maize tln'. river Gambia. or Senegal, that is in say, any
nhere about. the C"- :0 (lo. Vet-4i, Where 1 was in hopes to meet with some
European ship; and if 1 did not, I hum? not: what course I had to take, but (0
seek for the ishinds, or perish there among the ncgims. I knew that all the ship!
from Europe, whit-ch sm'imi eiihcr 1.0 the. must of Guinea, or to Brazil, or ti; the
East. Indies, manic. this Cape, or those Islands ; and, in a word, I put the whole of
my fortune UPON this single point, either that I must mutt with some ship, or
must. perish.

When I hml pm'sued this resolution about ten days longer, as l have saiilv l
hogan to see that the land was inhabited ; and in two er three piaces, as we sailed
by, we saw people stand upon 1.1m shore to look at us: we could also perceive
they were quite black, nnrl stark naked. I was once inclined to go on shore in
"mm; 'Iul Xury was my hotter counsellor, and said to me, "No go, no go."I'Ul IS OI" RUBINSON CltlZESOE.

l-iowever,111aulerl in nearer the shore 112.11: I 1.12.111: tall: to them. and 1 found
thev ran along the shore 111' me :1 good way: I obs: awe-:1 they had no weapons in
their hands, meept 011e, 1-. I: 0 had 11 1mm slender a 1:, which' A 111'\' 511111 was 11
lame. and that. they would 1l11'ow them a gram wav with 50m! aim; so I kept: at
:1 distance, but talked with :11e1'1'1 1:" signs :15 u- 011 as 1_ 0011511. and, partimhu'h',
mm'Ie igna for smut-111111;; to 0:11.; (luff lM'C'GCII'Ctl to me to step my hast, and (hm.-
mmld fetch me some meat. Upnn thiw'. I 101.1 ed the top of 1111' sail, and h. '11 lw,
at: cl {we of them ran up into the couni1-v,:uz11i:1 lcsa than hall' an hour came
1 -' :u :'1 hrought with them (use ' :5 (11" d1 l'sh 111111 501110. 0011,: such :11; is 1110
hut we. neither knew what the one 1101' tne other 1
however, we wcbc "111111;; in accept. 11.. But. lzlm' to mum at it was our next
dispute, for I was uni fuz- venturing (m Allure tn 1.1mm, and [lh'j were as much

afraid of us: but they took :1 sail: way fur 11:: 151, for tho.)- bruught i1. 1-.) the shore
511111 11111.1 it down, and went. and stand :1 great, way off till we fetched 11 on board,
and then cnmo close to us again.

I: is made signs of thanks 1.1) tl1e111,for 11:11:11.1, 110.11114,1 to 1:1:1'10. then: 111111111115;
but an oppni'lunih' offered that rci'v ln'l'dht to 111'>>lim.tl10111 thIII.'l'l'ull\'; ',h:1'
while we were 11-111;r , the shore, camn two mighn en:atu_res,ot1e pun: suing [IID
o.l:0r (as 110. 101).; it) "i111 preut fury from the "muntainx 11.11111th the sea:
\1 11011191 it "as the male 111115111111; the female, or whelhcr they were in spurt or in

', we could not tell, any mere than we could tell whether it was usual or
strm 5'0, but 1 lwlieve it was. the- latter; hecause, in the 1' )'ulnce, those rat-13110115
creatures selrlmn appear hut. in the night: and, in the xenon-:1 place, we fmnul the
people terribly frightened, especially the wou'xeu. The man that had 11m lance,
or dart, did not. fly fmm 1119111, but the 1'1-'1; did: hon-mm; :13 the two creatures
ran tlireclly 1111-0 the wafer, they did not, EK'UIH to ot'I'rr'tu fall upon (1111' of [he
negrocs, but. plunged l nuch'o' (e the sea, nnd $113111 :dwutzcil' 131>>, had come
fur their diva-min?" .-8.t last. on" (11 them hegnn 10 come mean-1 our heat than at.
first 1. expected; but I 1113' rend; 101' him, for I had landed 1111- gun with all
pnatihle expedition, and 1151: e Xury load both the cthc .. A. .9011 are he came
fairly within my reach, I fired, aud'shot him 1111 .tly into 1-1111 head: iuxmetliatcly

he sank down into the. \1'ater.l)ut rose instant 3' and )lumred u and (hm-'11 as if
. . s I ..1

he we Struggling for life, 51111.1 80 indeed he was: he immediately made to the

shore; I7'-ll-, between the wound, which was his murtal hurt, and the sir
1

the water he (110111 just hefm'e he reached 1.111; show.

It IS 'I'lpomble. to express the mtonialzment of these pom- creatures: at the
nois'; '1an the him of my ' ; some of them were even ready tn die for {22111} 111111
fell flown :15 dead with the very terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and

sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore. they took
heart, and came in the shore, and began to much for the creature. I found him
by his blood staining the water, and, by the help of a rope, which I slung round
him, and gave the negmcs to haul, they (hugged him on shore, and found that it
was a most curious leopnrd, spatial, and fine to an admirable degree, and the
ncgmns held up their hands with admiration to think what it was I had killed him
with.

T he uther creature, frightull with the flush 01' fire, and the noise of the gun,
swam on shore, and rsm up directly to the mountains, l'rnm whence. they mmc,
uur could I m 1.1m: (listzuicu know what it was. I found quickly the negmcs
were for eating the flesh of this i'rentmx", so I was willing to have them take it as
a fiwonr from me, which, when .1 made 5 us to them that they might take him,
they were. very thankful for. lumindiutely they fall to work with him, all-l
though they hmi no knife, yet, with a slmqienud piece of wood, they took 095 his
skin as readily, and much more rendilv. than We would have done with n knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I deuliuell, making (L's if I would give

it "mm, but made signs for the skin, which they gave me vm'yf'rcely, and brought.

me :1 gram deal more of their provision, \vhit'h, though I did no: iuulerslaml, yet

I accepted; then J, Inmlc signs to them for some wider, and held out one of my
jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that. I
wnntml to have it filled. They called inunerlialely in some of their friumls,'an(i
there. came two women, and hmught :\ great vessel made of earth, and burned,
as I suppose, in the sun; this they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury
an shore with my jars, mid filled them all three. The women were as stark naked
as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water; and,
leaving my friendly negrocg I made forward for about eleven days more, "thme
ofi'ering to go near the shore, till. I saw the hind run out (I. great length into the
sea, at about the distance. of four or fire leagues before me; and, the sen being
very calm, I kept a. large oiling to make this paint: nl. length, doubling the point,
nt about two leagues than the lmul, ,1 saw plainly land on the other side, to
sea-ward; then I concluded, an it was must certain, indeed, that this was the Cape

 

de Vera], and those the i.~:l:u'itl.\', called from thence (Lulu; <<h: Vertl Islands.
I'lowever, they were at a grant distance, and I could not well tell what. I had hest
to do ; for, if I should he when with a fresh of wind, 1 might neither reach one
nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was Very pensive, I stenped into the cabin, and snt me
down, any hnving the helm, when, (in a. sudden, thehoj cried out, "Muster,
master, :1 ship with :1. snil l" and the foolish hay WEB frightcd out. of his wits,
thinking it must nmtls be some of his master's ships sent. to pursue. us, when I

knew we wcm gotten far enough ent- of their reach. I jumped out at the cabin,
1|

 

and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, namely, that it w
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the cons: of Guinea for negroes.
"But. when I observed the course she steered, I wars sonn convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to come (my nearer to the shore; "P0"

R;--

 

  

\'

.awv>MMTH;

<<mam-m...>> at

Mu "WW--m...>>

    

:1
i."

 

 

. shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this; and as I had

      
    
       
      
   
 

 

whivh, I slmtchud in. to sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if

 

pose lc.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not, be able to Home in their

ww but that [hey would he gunc by before I muid make any x nl to them;

hit after I hnd crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, Lluzy, it. seems, saw

 

 

me by thc help of Ihcil' perspective glsmns, and (h: L was some l'inmpenn hunt,

which, as they :upmscrl, mus: belong to wmu ship that was lost: so they

 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

my patron's ancient: on heard, I made a waft 01' it'. to lhem for :1. signal of
distreb's, and fired a gun, hoth which thrvy' saw, for they told me the sans-'the
smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals they at (indly
brought in, and lay by for me, and, in nhour three hours' time, I came up with

  

them.

 

in Porfuguese, and in a'panish, and in French ;
w (m hoard.

They asked me what I rm.

  

but I mnlcnsloml none of tlmn; ham, a: last, a. $009.5 sailor, who \
called to me, and l nnsn'cwd him, and told him I was an Ena- airman--that. I had

made my "icz'qni' out of slavery from the Moors at. Salk-e. They bade mo came

 

0n lmurd, and wrv kin-'lly took nu: in, and all my goods.

 

It was an inexr 'hlc joy to me, as any (me would believe, llKlf I was thus

'M'ctl, as I estecmud it', from such a miserable. and almost hopeless condition

 

(hi

as I was in and immediately ul'h'rmi all I had in the captain nf the ship, as a.

 

return fur- my lll':ll\PS'.l'21)lL'EUR} hut in: <<r .erously told me he would take nothing:
from me, but that all I had should he (l
13': .ils. "For," anys ho, "I have. an rod your life on no other term llmn I would
he glad to lye. saved myself 5 and it. may, one time or other, be my lot. to be hike"

up in (he mum mmlition: hwidcs," sag.) he, "' when I carry vyou 1.0 the Brnzils,

   

. cred safe in me when I came to tho

 

 

so great 11 way from your own country, if I should take from you "'hnt you have,
'0 given. .l\'v,

 

you will he starved there, and (hen I only mire away that life I h:

   

nor Tngiv c," says he, "Mr. Englishman, I will curr you thither in

 

charity, and tlu:>se Illings will help you to buy your suhsistence there, and your"
pnmagv, home again."

As he was ohm-italic in his proposal, so he was just in rho. performance in a'
tittle; l'-
had: then he tut-0k everything into his own 13

' he onlcrcd the seamen, that none zlwuld ol'l'ur in touch anything I

 

ession, and gave xuu Uzmk an

 

uxuct. inventory of them,- thm. I alright. have them; even so much as my- enrihcrn
jars.

As to my beat, it was a. rery go
would buy it of me for the ship's use, and asked me what .1 would have for it? I

 

(me, mrd that hr) saw, and mid me he '

told him he had been so generoiis in everything, that I cmld not offer to makemy price oi the l>1>at,hut left it entirelv to him; upon which, he told me, 11-.-
would f'lVC' mo :1 note. of his haml to pay me eighty pier es of eight for it. at B111 1;
and, when it, name there, if any one ofi'tmtl to gin: 111m 11, he 1'. ould nuke it up: he

 

   

uil'ui'ed me. also sixtv pieces of eivht- mom for my hm' Xm'y, which I was loath to
take' , not. that I 11.1.1 not 1111]:ng to let the captain have him. but 1 11:14 van; to": 1
to sell the 110m: boy's liberty, 111111 had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my
own. However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it, to he just, antl
offered me this medium, that he would give the hay nu uhhgutiun to sot him free
in tcn ycms, if he turned Christian. Upon this, and Eur-'1' saying he was willing
to go to him, I let the captain have him.

"'1: had 11 very goat! 1'01ch 10 the Bmzils, and m" '1ed 1n the Bu} do. Tollos
in: Santos, 01' All Saints" Buy, in about twenty-two clays silk-1'. A1111 new 1 was
once more delivered l'l'om the. most miserable uf all cumii'limts ol' life; and what
to do ne\t with my; elf 1 was now to consider.

The gcncmus 11113111112111 the rnpiain gave me, I can never enough rmnemhcr.
llo. 111mm take nothing of me fur my passage--guru me twenty tlucats For the
loopai'rl's skin, and fort}r for the lion's skin, which I had in my limit, mul caused
everything '1 hacl in the ship in be. punctually delivered mo; and what I was
113; 1,0 sell he bought, such as the 0950 of bottles, two of my guns, and 11 piece
of H117 lump of hces'm'nx, for I hntl mm'lc candles of the rest: in :'1 want, I made
about. two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my (rm-fan; 111111 with this
StOL'l; I went on shore in the ltt'nzils.

  

".i

I had not been long hero, hul, boing l'e'connuenclud to Ilk'. house if :1 gm",
honest man, like himV'lf; who hnrl :m "ingeino," as they call it,--thnt is, a
pluntzxtivn 11ml :1 sligm'-imaso'--] "text

 

5th him some time, and acquainted myself,
by that 1110:1115, with the manner hl' t-hair planting and mnking of sugar; mill,
seeing hon well the plnnmrs lived, and how theygruw rich suddenly, I resalvoil,
if I could get limnm to scttlc there, I 11'oul1lturn planter among them; insulting,
in the 111mm 1in'11:,t1> find out some way to get my money, which I had left in
Lundon, remitted to 1111'. To this purpose, getting :1 kind of 9, letter of
naturalisnt'ian, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my money would
reach, marl formed a plan for my plantation and settlement, and such a am- as
nught be suitable tn the stock which I 111111105911 to 1113...]? to receive 'l'rmu
England.

1 had 11 neighbour, 11 Portuguese, of Lisbon, but burn of English parents,
whose 111111113 \"tts "'13ll8_'11111 in much such circumstances as I was. I cnil him

neighuuur, hut-aux hi4. plantation l..1' 1111\1 to mine, smrl we went. on 1'0 nciahlv

 

together. My stock \1 as. but 101", as 11 all as his; and we rather planted for fuutl,
than anything else, for about two yours. How ever, 11'chegan to i111 muse, and our
31
land-began to come into order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco,
nnd made each of us a large piece of ground ready for

planting canes in Hm year to come; but wt: both wanted

help: and now 1 lbund, more than before, I had done,

wrong in pariing with Xm'y.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never (lid right,
was no great wonder. I lmrl no remedy but to go on---1
was gotten into an employment, quite remote to my geniug,
and directly contrary to the life I. delighted in, and for
which I l'onmnk my father's house, and broke through all
his good advice--way: I was coming into the very middle

Willi, I might as well have slaid at home, and never -
have fatigued myself in the world as I have 3" _

clone; and 1' used alien to my to mySelf, I [55.

could have done this am well in England
among my friends, as have gone fire. thou-
sand miles off to do ii. among strangers and

savages in a wilderness, and at such '9"-

distancc, as never tn'lionr from any Pm: of' the world that haul the le'.
knowledge of me. In this n'uxnncr,

l nsrxl to look upon
my condition with
the utmost regret.
I had nobody to
converse with, but

 

now and then this
neighbour, no work
to he done but by
the. labour of my
hands; and I used
to sny, I livorl just
like (L man cnst
sway upon $01110
desolate islnnd, that,
had nobody there
but himself. But
it been, and how should all men reflect, that, when they compareM'-

AA.

. "Tr--T'- - ' 745'

- V ...~

t.
i
i

...__..- f' 1-3;

 

flwir present conditions with others that are
woxxe, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and he convinced of their forum-
((-iicily by their experience --I say, how just
has it been, that the true solitary Me I re-
flected on in an island of mem desolation
should hit my 101, who haul :50 <<(ion unjustly
compared in with the life which I ihcn led, in
which, had I cominucd,'I had, in all pvohnhihty,
hcen exceeding prmpemus and rich.
I was; in 'some (legion, settled in my measures for (-91- 'ng; on the plantation,

' .

heforc my .nd friend, the captain of the ship, that tool: me up at sea, went buck;

Far like. ship rem '
near three months: when, telling him what lime. Stock I land left behind me in

Landau, he wire me this friendly and sineem nth-ire; " Seignor Iugles'c," says he,

nod them, in pmriding hi3 lending, and preparing for his W:

2hr so he in .xys called me, "if you. will give. me int-curs, and a pmcumiion here,
in form to me, with orders to thepmson who has ymu' money in London, to send
ynur cs'l'octs to Lisbon, m such persons as .I. shall direct, and in such goods as are
l'ml'c'" fin- this country, I will bring you ":0 pruduce of them, God willing, at my
return ; but, since human affairs are. all subject to changes and disnstms, '1 would
have you giw orders km for one hundred pounds sterling, which you say, is halt"
your snack, and let the hazard he run for {he flint; so tlmt, if come rsztf'e, you
may order the. mm the smne mi"; and, if it mist-wry, you mny have the other
half t>> have remnrm to for your Suppl}

This was so \rhoinlbeomc advice, and Iaohrvd so friendly, that I could not but be
min-im'cd it was the best course I emrhl luhe: $4) I, accorx'lingly, prepared letters
to the genllewmna'n with whom I had left my money, and fl pl'ocumtion to lhc
l-'r-rlugnese. captain, as ha desired. '

1: "Tom the English captain's uidun' :1. full account of all my adventiu'es, my
slavery, escape, and hun' I had nu't- u'ifh i-ln.' Portugal captain at sea, the humanity
of his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with all other necessary
(lircr'linns for in; ,sumyly: and when this honest captain came to l..i~:b0n he found
menus, by 5021:. of the English merchants there, to send over, uni. the under only,
hu: 9, full ncennnt of my story, to a merchant at London, who represented ir
efi'aeennlly {0 her; whereupon, she-not only delivered "10 "Haney, but, Out of her
own pat-km, mm Ihc Portugal captain u very handsome present (in' his hunnmity
and charity to me.

The. merchant in. London \'usLing this hundred pounds in English gum , such
as: iho. mpinin had M'il. for, sent them rlil'crl'ly in him at Liehmi, nnd he hmnghr
liwm all safe to me. to the llmzils _: mnoug which, without my direction (2 r I was
900 young in my business in thin}; nl' them), he had tnken mm lo have all sorts
of tunl' mil-Work, and utensils, nutessnry for my plantalion, and which wow of
grant use tu me.

When this mrgo nrriv 'l_ I thought my fnrlnne made, for I was filli'pl'ist'i'l
with joy of it; and my good steward, The mpmin, had laid out the five pounds,
which my friend had sent him for u. prurient for 1' self, torpurehsxsc and bring
mu over A se. nt. und .' hand for s t ye nice, and would not accept of tiny
con-shim. fion, except. a little toh. :co, which Iu'ould have him accept, being 0f my

own produce.
  

- ."" , 4371-9: U... -_ --- ,..- 'Wien': "Wei-1w .
ADVENTUIUJb' OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Neither was this all; but myvgnods being all English nnmulactureg, such as
cloth, stuffs, baize, and things particnhu'ly valuable and desirable in the country,
I found means to sell them to a Very great. advantage; so that I may any 1' had
more than four times the value of my first cargn, and 'was now infinitely beyond
my peer neighbour, i mean in the advanrement of my plantation; for the first
thing I did, I bought me a negro slave, aml an European servant. also--J mean
another besides that which the captain bwught me from Lisbon.

 

But as abused prosperily is oftentimes nmde the me: of our greatest,
adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next- .yeaz' with great Slice <<5 in my
plantation: I mixed fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own groiunl, more than I

   

had disposed 0f for necessaries among my neighbours; and. these fifty rolls being
each of above a hundred "eight, were well cured and laid by againshthe return. "
uf the fleei- l'ron Lisbon. And new, increasing in' business and in wealth, my

}
head hogan tu be full of projects and undertak' g.>> beyond my re:

   

; such as are,
indeed, often the ruin of the limit heads in business.

liladl continued in the station I was new in, 'I had mam l'ut' all the happy
(hinge to have yet hcl'allen me, for which my father so earnestly t'eeounnendcd a
quiet retired life, and of which he had so sensibly descyihed the middle station of .
life to be full; but other things attended me, and I was still to he the wilt'nlagcnt
of nll my own miseries; and, particularly, to increase my iiiult, and double the ?
reflections on myself; which, in my future sorrows, 1 should have leisure to male>>,
all time miscarriages were. pmcnrcxl by my apparent obstinate adhering to my
foolish inclination of wandering abroad. and pizraiiug that inclitmtiun, in
contradiction to the. clearest. View: 0? doing myself good in a fair and plain pnlsuit.
of those PI'OSPCKZLS and these measures of life, which nature and J_'ruvidenee

concurred to 111:0: it. me with, and to make my duty.

   

As i had done thus in my breaking away fi'mn my parents, at) I cunld not be
content now, hut, I 1mm go and leave the happy View i had of being a rich
and thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and inunudernt'e
desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I c .l
myseif down again into the deepest- gulf of human misery that ever man fell

'into, or perhaps, could he consistent with life and a. slate of health,~ in the
vorid.

 

To come, than, by just degrees, to the particulars of this part (if unf story: ' '
"van may suppose, that, having now lived almost four years in the Bi:
beginning It: thrive zuid priwper \'or

.s, and l

 

l
y trell upon any plantation, i had nut only %
earn the humuswe but had (mural-ted am unintancc and fricadshi ) ammw mi-
a r) z i n . 4

 

fuiltl\i'-Plil]lt('l'$, as well as among the men-hunts at,St. Salt-adore, which was our a
part; and that in my discourse among them, I had li'equently given them an i

85
account of my two voyages to the coast of Gninea, the manner of trading with
the negroes tliei'e,' and how easy it. was to purchase upon the const, for trifles--
such as beads, toys, khivca, scissom, hnmhcts, hits of gm,'m:1 the like--not only
gold dust, Guinea gmins, elephants? teeth, ('10., but nagmcs for the service of' the
Bra-ails; in grant. munbers."

Theylislenccl nlwapx vex'y attentively to my discourses on these heads; hut,
especially to that W." which related to buying; uegl'uua', which was a trade at.

 

that. time not only not. far entered into, 'hutyns far as it was, had been carricyl
on by the "assientos," or permission, of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and 5
engrossed in the public, so that few negrues weru bought, and those. excessively '
dear.

It happened, being in company with some memhants and planners of my 3:1
acquaintmmc, and talking of those things very cmicstly, three of them came it;
me the next morning) and told me. they had been musing very much upon What I _
had discmnscrl with them ()i' the last night, and they came to make a scam.
pmposal .to me; and, after enjoining mo'secrccy, they told me, that. they had a

 

' ,.. <<

 

mind to fit out, a ship to go in Guinea; that, they had all plantations as well as
I, and were struiteued for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a
trade could not be carried on, because they could not pubiicly sell the negmcs
when they came home, so they desired to make but one vcysge, to bring the.
uegrocs on shore privately, and difidc them among their uwu plantations; nnd,
in a woz'd, the question was, whether I would go their supercnrgo in the ship to
as _
'j'~"' 'W"W<'. 4. 'e'e'eh'i'lfll > . _-'

   

. a.
,.\ In" 'nmuage the trading part upon the coast uf Guinea? and they ofimml me, that
I should have my equal share of the neg-mos, without providing any part of the
stock.

This wax; u fair proposal, it must he mni'cssod, had it been made to any one
that. had not had a settlement and plantation of his own to look after, which was

in a fair way of coming to he very considerable, and with a good stock upon it.
But for me, that was thus entered and established, and had nothing to do but. go
on as I had begun, fol" time 01- four yew; nioro,'a.ud to have sent for the other
hundred pounds from England, and who, in that time and with that little
addition, cauld scarce have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds
sterling, and that increasing too--for me to think of such a voyagewus the

most. preposterous thing that ever man in such circumstzmcea could be guilty of.

But. I, that was born 1.0 be my own destroyer, could no more resist the offer
than I could restrain my final i'mubling designs, when my fathei'a good counsel
was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with all my heart, if they
would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of
it to such sis I should direct, if I miscm-ied, This they all engaged to do, and
entered into "Things, or covenants, to do so: and I made a. fonual will, disposing
of my plantation and eiIects in case of my death, making the captain of the ship
that had sin-ed myJifc as before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dispose of
my effects as I had directed in my will, one half of the produce being to himself,
and the other to be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to pmscrve in}; effects, and keep up my
plantation; had I used half as much prudence to have looked into my own
interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to hav'o done, and not w
lmw: (lane, I had certainly newer gone away oin so pmslmrons an mulcrtahing,
leaving all the pwhablc views of :L'ihriving circumhzincgnnil gone upon a \oynge
to son, attended with all ha common 11:12:1le ; to say nothing of the reasons 1 had
2.0 expect imriicnhu' misflwmues to myself. . I

But .I WAS! hurried on, and obeyed blhully the. dictates of my fling, rather
Hum my reason : and nemrdingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo
furnished, :mrlinll Lliiivvs done. as by agreement by my partners in the xvi-age, 1
went on 'buurd iu'an evil hour again, the lst of Scpmmher, 1659, being the same
day eight j'ealm't-hut I went fruminy father and mother at Hall, in order t9 no:
llh", rebel to tlicirxmxthorily, and thg fool to my mm interest;

Our ship was about mwhnndmd un'd'twcnty tons burden, carried six guns, and
fourteen men, lK'Sitlcs the masier, the hay and myself ; we hml on hoard no large
cargo of goods except. nf such tors as .'wcre fit for our trndc with the negrues, such
and add lrifl's, especially lilrlc laokiug~glmses, knives;
ecissms, hafchets, and the like. , _.

The szune day I went on bonrd, we set tail, slanding away to' the rorrhwzu'd

an limbs, bits 01' 5. ass, shells

 

upon our own coast, with design to sli'ctk'hmver for the African 'mnst, when they
mum about. ten or twelve (lrgrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was
1.11;: manner of llhlzi)! course in those (lays. W 9 had very good weather, only
excessively hut, all the way upon our mm Coast, till we came in the height of
Cape St. Augmtinu, froni whence, keeping further nfl" at sea, we lust bighi 0f
lunch and stem-xi as if we were bound for the isle Fernmul (h: Noronlm, holding
our course- north-east by north, and leaving those isles an the cast. In this <<chiral;
we grassed the Line. in arboutmvelre days' time, and were, by our last nhscrvation,
in arr-en degrmcs twenty-two minnms northern latitude, whim 11 YiUlt'Dl- tornado, 01'
hurricane, took us quite out of our Kiwis-ledge: it began from the south-east,
came about to the north-was?7 and then settled inm the north-east 5 from whence
it blew in such'a (L'i'rilflp manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive, and, sundding away before it, let it carry us whither carer fate
and the fury of the winds directed ; and during those {welvc days, I hectl not say
'lmt I expected every dig: in he swallowed up, nor, iutlcqcl, did any in the ship
expect. tu'sm-c their lives. ' r 2

In this distress, we haul, besides the. terror of [he storm, one of our memdcacl
ol'ihc calentm' anti me man and the boy wusheil overboard. About the twciflh

 

day, the Weather ubut-ing a little, the master made an observation as well us he
could, and Found that he was in about eleven dogmas north latitude, but that. he

 

was t\\'cl'1i,3'"i.\\'0 (h _ 'es of luzigitude: niillference went: from Cape St. Augustinn;
:50 that he found he was gotten upon. the must of (.luincn, or the .1"!th 1381'? 01:

Brazil, beyond the river Amazons: toward that of the rivcr Oroonoqucrcommonly
 

 

culled the Great River, $11111 begun to consult: 1151311 me who: amuse he 3111111111
take. for the ship was leaky, and, very much 'disnhlcd, and 119.1 "'11: going (111-1:11:13:
hack to the coast: of Brazil. 1 '

I 11 :11 111131111 e11 agnimt that and, 10011111; over (-110 charts 01' the 50:1 coasts of
America with him, 1111 10119111131211 there 1 18 110 inhali'iied munh 1' for us to have
10110111141: 10, .111 no came 111111111 the circle of the (.-111'111hee 1s1m1lls, and therefore

195011904110 111111111 1111111: for B111'h:1daos; which. 11' keeping 011' at 5:6 to avoid the

 
  

111-1111111 of the 11:11; or gulf of )[ux160,11'e 111111111 e11s111'11oi'i'o1'n1, we hoped, in

about 111111.011 11113'5'81111; 111mm", we could not possibly 1113111: (1111' 1' 115151 to the

11 1111 this design, we 111111-2011 our m111>>o, 11ml steered 1111-111 iioi'tli-

 

11031, in order to reach some 01 0111' Ehfilisll islands, "here I hoped for "hef-
hut 0111' voyage was; otherwise determined; for hoing 111 '1111: latitude twelve
dogmas, eighteen minutes, :1 second storm came 11111111 115, which carried us away
11'i:l1 1110. same in1pet11'osity xs'estn'm'd, 111111 drove 115 so out 111' the way of all 11111114111
conunel'ce i'nm'. 111111 all 0111' lives been saved, as to the sen, 11'0'11'01'0 mtlwr 111
danger of heinrf (levoured by savages 13111111 ever returning to our country.

In 1111s Llls11'm1, the 1111111. 51111. blowing very hard, (mo. of our men, early in {he
111o1'11111g,1'1'ielou!, "T a11d!";1111l we had no sooner run 0111. of the cabin to 11ml;
out, in 11011155 of seeinfr whmcahontg' 111 the world. 11c ""1310, 11111. the ship str'mk
111101111 srmd, 111111111 11.111911111111, her 1110111111 heingso :OSfolmud, 1110. son 111 nke n1'1'-1'
her' 111 such :1 manner, that we 0111111211111- we 5111011111 all have 11917141011 immodialolj' ;.
111111 111: \1'c-1efii111111111m11'11' driver. 111131 0111' oloso. 111111110111. to shelter 11:; from the
vow foam and spmv of the sen. .

It 1s 1101: BMW 1111'11111 01111.11'1111111'51101 11111111111 the 11110. condition, (0 (1050111111
01' conceive the consternation of men in midi cimmnstances: We 11111111 nothing
where 11e11e1'e, 01' upon wl111tl1111di1' 11 as 111>> were (1111' o11--11-he111o1' 1111 151111111 01'
1111111111111, whether inhahited 01' 1101, 11111 llmed . 111111 115 the rage of the wind 1111.1
still M11111 though rather less 111111 at {1131,1112 could not so much as hope to 11mm

the ship hold mmw 1n11111tes <<1111111111 breaking' m ces, unless the. 11'i11zls,111' 11.

 

1111111 of 11111-11111. should turn iunnerliniclv 111101129 I11 :1 word, We: sat 111111111111
-ono. 11111111 another (11111 chectinu demh everv moment, and 01"011' 111:111 acting
according}; as prepnriug for another world; for tliera was little or 11o'l:111<<r more

For 111' to (10' 111 this: that "hich 1 0111' present comfort, .11111 all the comfort we

 

had,1111a, that, 01111111111 to our 01111-1 1.111011, the 5111 i' did not break vet, 111111 111115
the master 511111 the wind 111mm to 111-111:).
N nw,thoug11 we thought thni'. the wind 'rlid :1 111111 1111:1112, vet the ship 111111115:

thus struck upon the 11111111, and 5111111110 01111 1315: for 11s to eweot her wetting off
we were in :1. dreadful 1101111111011 indeed, 111111 11ml nuthinyr to do 11111 to think of
811
 

 

saving our lives as well (is we maid. We had a boat at our st'crn just bel'm'e the 6
storm, but we was first stirred by dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the H
next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven off to son, ; so there g
was no hope from her: we had another host on board, but how to get her off into
the sea was a doubtful thing; however, there was-no room to debate, fur we fancied
the ship would. break in pieces every minute, and some told us she haul actually
broken ali'eudy.

In this ulistiess, the 1mm: of mu: vessel-lays hold of the boat, and, with the
help of lhfl'mst of the men, they got her slung over the ship's side, and getting
all into he)', let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven iu nmnber, to God's
mare: and the wild sea; for though the alarm was ubuted considerably, yet the
sea went ilromlfully high upon t'hu shore, and might well be called "den wild zee,"
as the Dutch call flit: sea in a storm.

 

And now our, cum was very-- dismal indeed; for we all sam- plainly, that the
sen mam, ,9>> high, that the boat could not live: and that we should he inevitably
(howned. As; {a making suil, we had none; nor, if we hnrl, could we have done
anything with. it; so we worked a: the our tmi'xmls the land, (liough'm'lh heavy
heau'ts like men going to execution; fur we all klluw that "hen the boat came

 

meant the show, she would he uia=lml into n thousand piecw by the beach of the
59:1. However, we mummified nu? :ouls lo God in the most earnest manner; and
40the wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own

hands, pulling as well an we could towards land.

"'hat the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew

 

[The ShipKMkJ

not; the only hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of expectation {i'
was, if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth 'of some river, "JAWHWE'EWZ'K'

ADVENTURES ()1: ROBINSON CBUSOE.

 

3?: __ ' __ _ _

g where, by great chance, we might have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the
land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there was nothing Al" {-1 'a npponred;
but, us we. made Homer and nemrcr the shore, the land looked more filghtiul than
the 522.

After we lmd mwocl, or rather dr' 'en, about a. league and a half, as we

 

rot-hailed il, a raging \mve, mountain-like, came rolling nstern of us, and plainly
hndc us expect a watery grave. In a word, it took us with such 5: fury, that it
erase: the bout at once; :md, separating us as well from the boat as i'mn'x one
another, gave us not time. hardly to say "Oh God I" for no were all swallowml
up in a. moment.

Nathing can dcscrihv. the confusion of thought which I 12:".- whon l. sank info
the water; for though I swam very well, yet 1 could not. deliver myscl 1' limit the
waves so as to draw ln'eaeli, till that wave handing driven me, or rather carried, me,
a vast way on inwards the shore, and, h:

 

pent iesufl', went back, and 1ch mo
upon the lsmd almost dry, but half dead with the water I look in. I had so much
presence of mind, as well as breath left, that, seeing myself nearer the mainland
than I expected, I got upon my fact, nncl_cmlonvoured to make on towards the
land as 'l'sisI: as. I could, before another \m 'e should return and take me up again.
Bul. I soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I 5' w the sea come after me
as high as u great hill, and as "furious as an enemy, which 1 had no means or
sti'euglh to contend with--<<my business was to hold my breath, and misc xixyseli'
upon the water il' l <<mud; and so, by swimming, to preserve my breathing, and.
pilot myself inwards the shore, il' possible--my greatest conga '1) now being, let
the sea, as it would <<any mo :1 great way wwards the shore when it came on,
might not can'y me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave llm-l. came upon me again, buried me at. once twenty or thirty feet
deep in its own body ; and I could feel myself carried will] 9. mighty force and
swiftnus towards the shore a very gram. way; bu'. I held my hrr-nlh, and twisted
myself to swim still forward with (ll my might. I was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as l l'clt myself rising up, so, to my immediate i'c' .f, I
found my hand and hands shoot out above 11m mirflzcc of Li .i miter- and though
in was uni: two seconds of time that I mind keep myself so, yet. it relieved me
gmatly, gave me breath, and mm! coumge. I was covered. mgdn with water a.
gmd while, but not so long but. I held it out ; and, finding Lhc water had spent
itself, and began in return, I struck ibrwaml ngninst the return of the was-cs, and
felt-'gnmmd again with my feet. I stood still a. few moments to recover breath,
and till the Water went from me, and then took to my heels, and ran with what
strength I had f'zn'ilicr towau'dS the shore. But. neither would this deliver inc
fwm the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again; and twice
more I was lifted up by the waveg and carried forwards as before, the shore being
very flat.

The last time of these two,hac1 wall near been fatal to me; for the sen, having
hurried me along as before, landed mo, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a
rock, and thnt will! such force ais it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as in
my Will deliverance; for the. blow taking my side ninl breast, heat the bran . _, as
it worn, quite out of my body, rmrl, had it returncti ngnin inunccliately, I must;
have been strangled in the water; but 1' recovered a little before the return of the
waves, and, seeing I should be covered ngain with the water, I resolved t0 hold
fast by a piece of 1.1m rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave

 

went. buck. Now, as. the waves were not so high as at first, being ncnr land, I
held my hold till the 1mm aha-led, and than fetched another run, which brought.
me 30 near the shore, that the next. wave, though it went over me, yet Llid no?-
so swallow me up as to awry me away: and the next run I luck .1 gal lo the
mainland, 1v}:

 

'0, (0 my great comfort) I clambciwl up the. Clifts ol' the shore, and
sat are drawn rayon the grass, free from clnnger, snd quite out- of the reach of the
WHERE

I was now landed, 23ml safe. on shore, and began to look up :qu thank God
that my life was saved, in 9 <<8:: wherein there wns, same minutes before, scarce
any ruom in llupe. I believe i2. is impossible to express to the life what the
ficsiaciss and transports of the soul are when it. is so saved, as I may say, nut of
the vcry grave 3 and I do not; wonder, new, at that ensign), namely, lizat when 1L
malefncim', who has the lmllm.' about hi' neck, is tied up, and jnsl. going to be
l-umecl off, and has a reprieve brought '(0 him--I say, I do nut wonder that they
luring n surgeon with it, to let him ~blond that very moment they tell him al' it,
that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm
him : . .

Fer widen joys, like grlcls, confoumi at first.

I walked about on the sharp, lifting up my hand>>, and my whole behlg, as I
may say, wrnpl. up in the contemplation of my (lelivcrxnm, making, a thousand
gestures and motions which E cannot describe--~reiiecting upon all my commles'
"ml were thermal, and. that there should not be one son] mad but myself--for,
n5 for them, 1 never saw tlmn aflc--rwards, or any sign of them, excel)? three 01"
their hats, one mp, and two almcs (hat were not fellows.

I can my eyes. to the stranded nasal, when, the hmnrh and limb of the sea
being so big, I could. lizwtlly see if, it lay so {hr 05', and cousillemrl, Lord! how
was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaml my mind with the comfortable part of my cmfilifimh I
beam) to 109k round me, to see what kind of plane I was in,':iiu1 what wm next('69,?) Qagfigmp'wv -. .- V.<<;l:mi-w7/

. 4"
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRCSOEI

f
., I,

to be done; and I soon found my comforts shale, and that, in a word, I had a. "4:

dreadful deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, not anything h

either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect befom me .i

but that of polishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts; and that.

which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no won pon either to hunt

i ' and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other

creature that might desim to kill me for theirs--in a word, I. had nothing about "5"

if me but a knife, 3. tobacco-pipe, and a. little tobacco in a box; this was all my '

" provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that, for a while, I run l'

_ about like a madman. Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to V?

i 1 consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts iii-that country, :
seeing at night thegr always come abroad for their prey.

we? v: _n-

 

   

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was, to get up into a
thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorn 5, which grew near me, and where I '
resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day what death I should die, for as .
yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a l'urlong from the shore, to see if \

I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having '3
drunk, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the r
tree, and getting up into it, endeavouied to place myself so as that if I should "
sloop I might not fall; and having cut me a. short stick, like a. trmielimn, for my /-
defmme, I took up my lodging; and, having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast 1;");
asleep, mid slept as comi'ortnhl)r as, I believe, few could have done in my con- "
dition, and found myself the most refreshed with it that I think 1 ever was on
such an occasion.

When I wakecl it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm abated, so
that the sea did not rage and swell as before ; but that which surprised me most
was, that the ship was lifted ofi' in the night from the sand where she lay, by the

[The Ram]

aweiiing of the Lido, and was driven up almost as far as the rock whigh I first
mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the dashing me against. it ; this being
within about a mile fmm the shame where I wns, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself onliomvl, L'nnf, at least, I might save some nemssm'y
things for my use.

'r'heu 1' came down from my apartment in film tree, I looked about me
and the first thing '1' found was the boat, which lay as the wind and the

in,
had
tossed her up upon the laiid: about. two miles on my right hmulf I wulhcu its fxu'
as I could upon the ashore to lum' got to her; but. found a. neck or inlet; of water,
between me and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back

 

   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  

   

fur the pi <<mt, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to
find something for my present subsistence.

A little :tt'im- norm, I found the sea. very calm, and (he, tide elf-Jed so far out,
that I could come wit-hi1) n qum'lm' of a mile of Lhi': ship; and here I found a
fresh renewing of my grief : for I saw evidently, that if we. had kept l)'.l heard,
we had been all safe--<<hat is in say, we had all got safe on shore, and I lmrl not
lie-an so miserable as to he left entirely dcslilute of all comfort and company, :19
relief

 

gain ; but as thy-:0. was littl '
:ip--SO I "pulled off my clut'lzes, for

  
  
 

I "my was. This forced tears from my
in ihat, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ~:
the weather was hot to extreniity, and tuulx Hie. wnter. But. when 1 came to the
ship, my difficulty WM 3! ill greater to knew how to get on heard; for, as she lay
aground and high out of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lug;
hold of. I swzuu round her twice, and the Eecvml time I spied a small rim: of
rope, which I wondered I did not see :i.' first, hang down by the foi'e'cllains, 50
low as that- with great difficulty I got. hold of it, and, lny the help (if that rope.
got up into the fermastle of the. ship. Here I foam! that the ship was bulged,
" ' that she lay an on the side of :;

 

and lied a great deal of water in her lmld, '
bank of hard sand, or rather earth, and her stern lay lifted up upon the hath,
and her head low almost 'to the water: by this menus nil her quarter was free:
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may he sure my first work wss U)
search and to see what. was spoiled, and what. was free, and first I found that all
the shipk provisions were dry and untourhetl by the water! and being very well
disposed to em, T went to the bread--rpm]! and filled my pockets with l nit,
and me. it. as 1 went. about other things. for I hit-ll. no time to lose. I alsn found.

 

some rum in the grant cabin, of Winch ( incl: 5. huge drum, and which 1 had
t me for what was byi'w'e me, Now I wanted

 

indeed "and enough of to 5
nothing but :1 beat, to furnish myself "ill! many things which I foresaw would
be very necess' T to me.

it was in rain to sit still and wish for what vars not to he had: and this
extremity roused my application. "It: had several spare yards, and Lun or three
large spars of wood, and a spare topmost. or two in the ship; I resolved to full to
Work with these, and flung as many of them overboard a: I could "image of
M.5.

inf-SE>>

15m;

ielefzgf mfifigl'

.4. i

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

their maighl, lying every one. with n rope that they might not (hire away.
When this was (lone I. went down to the ship's side, and, pulling lliem to me, E
Lied four of them fast, together nu both ends as well as I could, in the form of n.
raft, and lafing two or three short piece>> of plank upon them crosswayu, I found
I could wail: upon it very well, but that it was not able to hear any great weight,
Hie. pic-cos being too light ; so I went to work, and, with the carpenter's saw, I
out a. spare. topnmt into three lengths, and added thmn to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains; but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encoumgyztl me 60 go beyond what. I should have been able to have done upon
another occasion.

My mi} was now strong enough to hear any reasonable weight; my next
care was what to loml it with, and lsow to preserve what I laid upon it from the
null of the sea ; but. I was not long considering thisi I first laid all the planks
or boards upon it that I coulxl get, and having considered well what: I. most wan ted,
I first got three. of the mmcn's chests, which I had broken open and empiicd,
and lowered lemu (loam upon my raft. The first of those 1 filled Will! provisions,
nzunely, bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces 05' dried goat's flesh, which
we lived much 11130151an a little remainder oi European corn, which had been
laid by for some fowls which we brought. in sea with us, but the fowls were

in El. There had been some barley and wheat. togeLher, but, to my gm>>:
disappointment, I found afterwards llmt' the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As
for liquow, I found several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial \i'al'erg and in all :'dmve five or six gallons of rack: these 1
stowed by themselves, [have being no need to pill: them into the clmsl, nor no
room for them. 'rl'liile I WAS doing this 1 'lbund the tide began to flow, llximgh
very calm, and I had the mortificmion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which

E' had left on shore upon the Sfmfl, swim away; a>> for my brooches, which were
only linen, and open-knocrl, I swam on board in them and my stockings: however,
this put me upon mmmsglng for cloihos, of which I found enough, but took no
more than I wanted for pmseut use, for l haul other things which my eye was
more upon: as, first, tools to work With on shore; and it was after long searching
llmt 1 found out the carpenter's clmsl, which was indeed a very useful prize to
ma), and much more valuable than a. shilrluml of gold would have been at that
lime. I {fat il. down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing Lime 1.0 look
into it, for I knew in general what it contained.

My next: care 1735 for some ammunition and arms. 'J'hcm were two very good
fowling>>piccl's in the great cabin, and two pistols: lesc I secured first; with some
pan-denhorus, and a <<small bag of' shot, and two old. rusty swords. I knew there
wem three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not here our gunner had
 
 
  

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUROE.

flowed them; but with much search 1 found them, two of them dry and good,
the third had taken water: those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thought myself pretty well froighted, and began to think how I ~almnld get to
shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and the least, "PM of wind
would have oversel; all my navigation.

1 had three wiwurageinents: 1. A smooth, Calm sen; 2. The tide rising,
and setting in to the xhore; 3. W'hnl' little wind there was blew me toward the .
land: and thus, having found two or thres broken oars halonging to the boat, '
and, hasides the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a '
fl. hammer; and with thin purge I put to sea. For a mile, or tliei'eahouts, my raft
f went very well, only that I found it drive :1 lit-Lie distant from the place when) I

 

 

had landed before: by which I perceived that mm: was some inclmft of the water,
and, consequently, I hoped to find some creek or river there, which I might make
use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it, was: thaw appeared hafore me it little opening of the
land, and 1 found a strong purl-ant of the tide set. into it, so I guided my raft as
Well as I could to keep in the middle of the stream ; but here I hsxl like to have ,4
suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, 1 think verily would have hmke my /,4i
heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it *2
upon a. shoal, and, not being aground at the other end, it want/ed but a. little that \.5. "36%. _. -<< -
, > , '70" W--
a? - "Blflvnnwzmuxns 0;: nomxsou museum

    

 
 

nil my cargo had slipped off inwards thnt
end that was afloat, and so Fallen into the
water 1 (lid my utmost, by setting my
buck against. the chests, takes}: them in their
plncez, but could not t'ln'usl: off thu mft with
all my strength; neither (lursl. I stir From
the posture I was. in, but, holding up the
chests with all my might, stood in that
manner nem- lmlf an hour, in which time
, tho. rising of the \mber brought me in link:
more upon a level; and, a. little after,_;C/'W Wum;:a"iwmmm _ESS&M4KW'"SS'

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CllUfi l-T.

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

the wr' :r slill rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the our 1
hm] inln the channel; and then, chiviuginp higher, l 9-: length found myself in
the nnmlli of u ISM-lo river, with land on both sidisa, and a strong cnm'cnl, or tide,
running up. I' lmked on both sides for a proper place to get to ahow; for I
was not willing to hr: driven too high up the river, hoping, in time, to see
ea, and thew-fore resolved (0 place infielf as near the coast, as l

 

some ship nf:
could,

Al. length I syierl a. little cove on the right shore. of tho creek, tu which, with
grent pain and difilculty, I guided my raft, and air.- last got, so near as that,
1' hing ground with my om', 1 could thrust he): directly in; but here .1 1>>st
liked to have dipped. all my cargo in the sea again; for that ashore lying pretty
1>>, that is to my, sloiihig, than: was no place to lsmrl hut where one curl of the

 

5' u:

 

limit, if ii. mn bu sham, would lie so high, and the other wink lower as.l.mfonc,
:l
tide. was at the highest, keeping my mil with my om: like an dueling, in hold the
521.10 of it last to the slumfi, new: :2, iinl. piece of ground, which I. expected 11x:

  
 

it. would endangm' my cargo agnhi :- all that I could'do, was w wait lil'. the

 

wmm' would flow over; and so it did. As spun :w. I found water enough--for
my 1211': drew nh-nut n for): of water--'1' {limit her on upon that flat niece of
ground, and them fmtenenl, or moored her, by sticking my two broken om-s into
Hm grmmd~onn on one side, nem- one and, and one on the other side, nem' lhe
Other and; and llms I in}: till the watt/31' chbed away, and left my raft and all my
cargo safe on shore.

My m3." work was to View file cmmflfi', and seek fl, proper Place for my
habitation and where to slaw my goods, to secure them fimn wlwtever might
lmpprrn. 1Where I was I yet know not; whether on the continent u): on n21
Mam-l <<whether inhabited 01' mi. inlwhiled--whcthc'r in danger of wild hensss
DY not. Them was a hill, not above n mile from me, which ruse up very asleep
and high, and which seemml to overlap some other hills which In}; as in a ridge
f: m it northward. I tools out one of the l'(iw'.-ing\-pieces and one of (he. yisinls,
and. n ham or" powder; and rlnm armed, I travelled for discovei'y up to the lap
of than: hill, whom, after 1 had with gmat labour and (lilliculry got to the. top, l
mu my fate to my gmnt affliction, namely, that I was in an island, aux-ironed
mm'y wag: with. the scar--no land (0 hr: seen, except some ranks, which lay it grunt
\\;~'_'.' 00', and two small islands less llnui this, which lay about. three league: to the
west.

1 found. also, that the island I was in was hzm'en, and as I saw good reason to
hulieve, uninhabited, except hy wild beasts, of which, however, I saw nmm; yet
I snw ahmnlancc of fox-:15, but knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed them,

cuuld I tell what. wan fit for food, rmd what not. At my coming back, I shot nl- n
nogreat bird, which I smv sitting upon a tree on the side of a. great wood : I believe
it was the first gun that. had been fired there since the creation of the world. I
had no scone): fired, but, .l'rom all parts of the wood, there arose on innumerable
number of fouls of many sorts, making a confused seremuhig, and crying, every
one according to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I him.
As for the crozxtm'e I killed, I took it to he a. kind of a hawk, its colour and 1:0th
muembliug it, but had no tulons, or chm-s, more than common; its flesh was
carrion, and lit. l'or nothing.

Content/ed with this dist-awry, 1' came back to my mt't, and fell to work to
bring my cage on shore, which took me up the rest of that dug : and whul. 1.0 do
with myself at night I hired not, nor indeed where to resl.; ('0): I was afraid to lie
down 011 the gmuml, not. knowing; but some wild boast might devour me; though,
as I aflorwmds found, thoro was really no need for dime fears.

However, us well as I could, I harricudoerl myself round with the chests and
boards that I had brought on shore, and made 9, kind of a hut for that. night's
lodging. A; for food, I yet. sow not which way to supply myself, except that 1
had seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the wmxl where I shot. the
fowl.-

.1 now begun to musider that I might get a great runny things out or" tho. sl ip,
\xlllf'll would be useful to me, and pnrliculnrly some of the rigging and sails,
and such other thixgs as might come to land, and I resolved to make nnoihor
voyage on board the vefiel, if possible; and as I know that the first. storm that
blew mus: none

 

 

' v break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out ol' the ship that I could get. Then I called :1,
council (that is to say, in my thoughts), whether I should tnkc lmok the raft: but
ll this appeared impracticable ;- so .1 resolved to go as before, when the tide was
down, sud I did so, only that l. stripped before I "out from my hut. having;-
nothing on but a. checked shirt and a pair of linen trousers, zuzd .1 pair of pln'nps
" on my foot.

. I goi on board the ship as before, and pitqaarod a second raft ; and having
had experience of the limb, I neither made this so uuwieldly, nor loaded il. so
hard, but yet I brought away several things very useful to me; as first, in 112::
uni-ponler's stores, I l'ouud two or three lungs full of nails and spikes, a great
acmw'jach, a dozen or two of hoteliers, and allow all, that most useful thing cnllecl
u grin-:lstone: all these I seemed, together with several things belonging to the
gunner, particularly two or three imn crows, and. two barrels of musket-hello ,
Seven nxuskets, and another fowlingv-piem, with some small quantity of poWdCi'
more; a large bag full of small shot, mid a gram. roll of sheet. lead: but this last
was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

'3.
 

Besides these things I tool: all the men's clothes that I could liml, and a spine
foretop-snil, hammock, and some bedding; anal with this i loaded my second raft,
and brought them all safe on allure, to my wry great comfort.

I was under some appnellensions (luring my absence from the land, that at
least my provisions might be devoured on shore; hm, when 1 came back I found
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature, like a wild not, upon one ol'the
chests, which, as I cum>> toward-s it, ran away n little distance, and then stood
still: she sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if
she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I prospnlorl my gun at her, but as she
<<lid not undorstmnl it, slug. was: perfectly unconcornod m it, nor (lid she oficr to stir
away; upon which i tossed her 1). bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not
\'Ol'y free of it, for my store was not great: however, I spau'ul her :1 bit, i say,
and she went to it, smelled of it, and ate ii, and looked, ALE pleased, for more ; but
I thanked her, and could spare no more--so she marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was lain in open the barrels

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

of powder, and bring them by pflYCHlS---l'o;' they were too Maw, being large

 

<<asks--'1' wont to work to make ma a little mm, with the sail and some poles

 

which I cut for that purposo; and into this tent 'l lnnught every thing that I

 

knew would spoil, either with min or sun; and .l piled oil the empty chests and

 

cask>> up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden uttempl, either

 

from mun or beast.

When 1 haul done this I blocked up the door of the tent with some bowls
within, and muempty chest sci. up on end without, and, spreading one of the beds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my hood, and my gun at length
by me, I wont to bod for the first Lime, and slept vary quietly all night, for I was
very weary and hem-gr; as the night: before I llml slept little, mid hail lnlmurod
very hard all (lay, as well to fetch all those things from the ship as in get them on
shore.

I had the biggest mnguzino of all ldmls now that over was laid up, I believe,
for one man, but I was not satisfied still; for, while the ship out upright in that
posture, I thought I ought to get everything out of her that I could: so every
day, at low water, I went- on board, and brought away something or other; but
particularly the third time I went, I brought away as much ol" the flying "5 I
could, as also all the email ropes and rope-twine I could get, with H- piet'e of 51731"?
canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet: gun-
powder; in n. word, I brought away all the sails flux and last, only that I was thin
'0 01"- 'vhem in pieces, and bring a; much at a. time as I could; for they wcm no
It more useful to be sails, but as mere canvass only.

But that which comforted me more still, was, that last. of all, alto): I hail mnde

52
five or six such voyages 2w these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from

the: ship that was worth my meddling with--I say, after all this, I found a gmat

hogshcad of bread, and three large "inlets of mm or apii'its, and a box of sugar,

and a barrel. of fine flour; this was surprising in me, because I had given over

_ expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the water. I soon

emptied the hogshoml of that bread, and. wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in

pieces of the Hails, which I cut out : and, in :0, word, I got. all this safe on shore
also.

The next [lily I made another voyage; and now, having; plimdered the ship

of what was portable and lit- to hand out, I began with the cables; mid cutting the

grmt cnhlc into pieces

such <<a I could more, I

I got two cable: nml ahmv--

so): on shore, with all the

iron work I could gut;

and having cut. down the

spritaail-ymxl, and the

when-yard, and every

thing I could, to make at

large raft, I loaded it with

all those heavy goods, and

came away ; but my good

luck began. now to leave

me: fnr this raft; was so

unwieldly and ova-laden,

that, after I had entered

the little core, when: l

- ' lmrl landed the rest of

my goods, not being able

to guide it so handily as

I. did the othem, if. over-

. set, and threw me and all

my cargo into the water. As for myself it. was no great harm, for I was near

the shore; but as to my cargo, it was, great part of it, lost, especially the iron,

which I expected would lmvc hum of great use to me: however, when the title

was out7 1 got most of the pioms of cable mhore, and some of the iron, though

with infinite. labour: for I was lain to dip for it into the water, a work which

fatigued me very much. After this I went every day on board, and brought
away what I could get.
 

1 had been now thirteen dam on shore, and had been ele' m Limo; 0:1 honwl
the chip; in whichtimc I hurl hrmight away all that one pair of him . could well
be supposed capable 10 bring, though I believe verily, had "in calm hclrl, 1' should
have. brought away the whole ship, piece by piece: but, pi'cpnriug the twelfth
lime to go on board, I found the wiud hogan to rise: however, at low wflk'!' l

 

 

wcni on board. and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so eB'eCiually as
that nothing more could he found, yet I discovered a locker with drama"; in it,
in which I found two or three mums, and one pair of large scissors, \qizh some
ieu or :1 dozen of grand knives and forke; in another I found about thirty-six
paunds value in money, some European coin, some Brazil, some piecas (if eight,
some gold, wme silver.

'1 smiled in mysmlt' m. ihc sighi. of this money. " 0 drug! .aid I, aloud,
" whai. rm. than good Fm"! thou m not worth #0 me -----no, not the hiking oil" the
ground; one of those lmims is worth all this hang; I have no manner of use for

 

thee; oven remain whcri': Lhan art, and go to {ho hoitom as a. cream") whose life
is not worth saving." However, upon 149.com! thoughts i look it. away, um],
wrapping all this in a piece of canvas>>; I began in think of making another raft:
but, while I was preparing this, I i'niiml 1hr>>: shy miewrmi:1 and the wind ixg-(m to
rise, and in u ([um'ier of an hour it blew it fresh gale from the show. It pfesenily
occurred to me, that ii. was in 'yniu to pretend to malic- :L rufl Wit-h him wind DH
Show, and that it "115 my business to be gone he'ibl't'. the [Mn 0? 'lloocl began,
otherwise I might. nor. be able to rem-h the shore in: all: acmmiingly, I lct myself
down inba the water, :in swam across the channel which lay lmwman the drip and.
l-lm. blinds, and even that with difiiculty enough, partly with the weight of things
I haul about me, and partly the roughness of the water, for the wind rose very
hastily, and, hcfom ii. wax quile high water, it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to my little tum, where I lay with all my wealth about
me very secure. It 'hlaw very haul all that night, and in the. morning when I
looked out, behold, no more ship View to be seen! I was a litrlu surprised, but
recovered myself with this satisfactory reflemion, namely, that I had Iosl; no limo,
nor abated. no diligence, to get every thing out of her that could h:- usei'ul lo me,
and ihsi indeed them was little left in her that i was able 1'0 bring away, if'I had
had more time.

I. now gave over any more thoughts (if the Ishi'p, or of any thing ant of her,
except what might drive on shore from her wreak, as indeed dirt-rs. pieces of her
aficrl'wzu'ds did; but those things were or small use to me.

My ""1le were nmv wholly employed. about. accruing myself against either
savages, if any should appear, m.- wiid beasts, if my were in the island; and '-
hud many tlwnghis of the method how to Llu this, (incl what kind of dwelling *0
5-i-make--whether I should make mo a cave in the earth, pr a tent upon the 03th ;
and, in sharp, I resolved Upon both, the mummy: and description of which it may
not- lm improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I. was in was not for my settlement, particularly
because if. was upon a low moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would not
be wlmlcanmc, and more particularly because there was no fresh wnlm- near ii, 3 5.3
I msglved in find :v, mom healthy nnd more cunvenieut spot of ground.

 

I consulted several things in my situation which I found would be proper iui'
Inch--1st, Health and 'l'msh water I just. now mentioned ; 2rlly,

 

u

miter from the

    
   

from ravenous creatures, whether man or harm;

 

heat (If the sun; 3rlly, Secmi
4thly, A View to thn sun, that, if God sent. any ship in sight, I might not lose

 
 

any nrlvnmage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to banish all my

 

c-xpecmiinn yet.
1" gem-ch of a. plmve Proper for Ihifi, I found. a little. plain on The side of a
c' hill, whose i'mnt towards this little plain was sieep a: a house-side, so than.

    

   

nothing could come clown upon me from the tup: on {he side of this m h there
was It hollow pin-:0. worn a little way in, like the enimnnc 01' door of a. cave, but

  

them was not really any awe 01' way into the melt at all.

On the ilfli- of the green, just. bd'om this hollow place, I' msolved o pitch my
tent : this plain was not above. an hundred yards hrs-ml, and about twice as long,
uml lay like a green before my dear, mid at the end 05' ii. descended irregularly

   
 

every way down inln the low gmnntls by the sea-silk. it. was on the north-north-

    

west side 01' the hill, 50 that .l was shalt/areal from the heat every day fill it came

 

in a Weslranby-mmh sun, or chm-whom. which in those. cmum'ies ii neau' the

 

soiling.
Before I set up my lent, I thew a, lmlf' riwle before the hollow place, whirl)

  

mo}; in about Lm yards: in it's semi-diameter from the rock, and iwcm'y ytmls in

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      

its (limueier, From its beginning and Handing.

In this half circle I pitched :wo rows of strong Stakes. driving them into the.
gmmxrl (ill [hey stood very firm, like piles, the biggest and being out of the
gmuml about five feet and 9 half, and sharpened on the (up: the two rows (llLl

 

not stand :tbm-'c six inches from one anuthex.

Then I took ilzo pieces of cable. which I hail (2m. in the ship, and lniti them in
rows, one upon another, within the. circle between ilxcsc'. two rows- of stakes up to
the top, placing other fifakcs in the inside, leaning against them, nlmm. two feet
and a half high, like a spur to a post: and this fence. was so stmng', that neither
man nor beast Could gel. into it, or over it : this cost me a {gent deal of time and
lnhnnr, espeeiullv,' to cut the piles in the woods, bring them t'o'the place, nml drive

them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I male to be, not by a door, but by a. short ladder,
to go over Lhc top; which Wider, when I was in, I lifted arm- nfinr me: and so I
was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, :md
consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could not have done;
though, a>> it appeared Muir], there was no need of all this caution from the
enemies that I apprehended danger from.

Into this fcnm, or forlrcss, with infinite labour, 1' carried all my riches, all my
pmvisiom, ammunition, and stores, of which you have the account above ; and I
made me at large tent, which, to preserve me from the ruins, that in one part of
the year are very violent
there, I made double,
namely, uue smaller tent:
within, and one larger
tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with at.
large tm'pnulin, which I
lmxl savor! among thu
mils.

And now I lay no more,
For a while, in the bed
which I hall brought on
shore, but in a hammock,
which was, indeed, a. very
gmd one, and belonged
to the mate of the flip.

Into thirs tent I l'Jmugllt
all my provisions, and
every thing that would
spoil by the wet; and
having thus enclosed all
my goods, '1' made up the

 

entrance, which, till now, I hm! left open, and so passetl_an<l I'epassed, as l said,
by n shorl: ladder.

Write" I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and, bringing
all the mrth and stones that. I dug down, out fln-uugh my tent, I laid them up
within my fence in the nature of :t terrace, that 50 it misnd the ground within
about n fool. and a half ; and thus'I made me a. cave jnsl. behind my tent, which
served me like a cellar to my house.

It cost me much labour and mrmy days before all these things wore bmnghtto perfection; and, fihomfore, I must go back to some other things which took up
some of my thoughIS. At the same time, ic happened, after I had laid my
scheme for the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick dark cloud, :I. sudden flash of lightning happened, and after
that a. groin. clap of thunder, us is nalurzdiy tho. olfact of it. I was not so much
surprised with the Iighmingj as I wns with a thought which darted into my mind
as swift us the lightning itself : 011, my pawder} my very heart sunk within me,

        
     
     
   
  

 

when I thought that, at one blast, all my powder might be flesm'oycd, on which,
not my defence only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended :
J. was nothing min 1' so anxious about, my own danger, though, had the powder wok
fire, I had never known who had hurt me.

 
 
  
  
 
 

 

. ""4.
Such impres=ion thd this make upon me, that. after the storm wax org-r, l lai-zl
aside all my wurlcs, my building and foriil'ying, and applied myself {.3 uni-ho. l
and harms, to separate tho powder, and so keep ii. a little and a little in a lured,
in hope tlndJ whatever might, conic, it might. not. all taltn firs al' mice, and to keep
it. an apart, that it should not be possible to make one part firn snot. . I finished
this work in alum: n fUI'Ullg-flt; and I think my l'wm'flfl', which, in all, was about
two hundred and forty pounds. weight, was: divided in uni. less than a humlred
para-1s. As to the barrel that had been \i'\. l: rlicl not. nppmlmnd any danger
from that, so I placed it in my new cave, which, in in}: minty, '1' mllcd mgr kitchen;
and the mstI hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that. no net might
come. to it, marking very carefully where I laid ii.

In the in mi of time while this was doing, I went out once at lcmt every
day with nzy gziu, as well to divert myself a: in She if I caulrl kill any thing fit.
for food, and, as near as I could, to acqm'ihit m W with what. the islgunl prorlzwae.
The first time I went out, 1 presently discovered that then-c were goats in film
island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but then, it was attended with this
inisi'ortmiu to me, namely, that they were so shy, so subtle, and an swift of foot,
that. it was the most cliificult thing in the world to come at them. But I was not
dismumgerl at thifi, mt doubting hm; I might now and then shoot. one, as it soon
happened ; for, after I lmcl found (heir haunts a little, I laid wait. in this manner
for them. I observed, if they snw me in {he mlleys, though they were upon the
forks, they would run away as in :1 terrible (fright; but it" the) were feeding in
the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they look no noxim of me; from whence I
concluded, that, by the position of their optics, their sight was $0 directed. dawn-
\rm'd, rhat they (lid not readily see objects that were above them: so nfler'vmrds I
look 'llllS method; 1 always climbed the racks first, to gel. above them, and than
haul l'mqnently a fair mark. The first shot. I made among these creatures I killed
a she--goat, which had a little kid by hm- n'hicli. she gave such 10, which grim e:
me heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid smotl stock szill by her iiil T
came. and took her up; and not. only so, but, when I carried the old one with
me upon my :houhlem, the kid followed me quite (0 my enclosure; upon which
I laid down ihu dam, and. took the kid in my arms, and c "ed il. over my pale,
in lmpes to ham hmrl it. up (2.12m; lint it. would not eat, so I was forced 1.0 kill
it, and eat il. myself. These two supplied me with flesh a gram while, for I ate
sparingly; and saved my provisions (my bread espmriall'i') as much as pnsnxibl}r I
could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it- absolutely "(locum-y m pro'rilln a
place to make a. fire in, and fuel to hum 5 and what I (lid fur chair, as also how I

enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, T shall give a full account of in
its place: but I must first: give. sonn- little account of myself, and of my thoughts

 

about living, which, it; may well in: suppr- d, View. Hot. a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for, as J was not c5151. away upon
that Maud without being driven, n5 is said, by a violent storm, quite. uut. of the
course of our intended voyage, and a great way, namely, some hundreds of

leagues, out of the ordinal

  

-' cum'tse of the trmh' of mankind, I had great tenant to
consider it as a determination uf Heaven, thin, in thls desolate place, and in this
desolate manner, I should end my life. The that's would run plentil'ully down my

face when I made these Reflections; and sometimes I would expustulale with

 

m5- . " why Providence should thus mntplctc-ly ruin his omatures, and render:
them 59 absolute 3' miserable, SI.) withuut hulp abandoned, so entirely depressed,
that it could hardly be mtivnal h) be thauikful [or such a life.

But something always returned (swift upon me (0 check these thnnghts, and to
l

  
    
   
 
  
   
  
  
    
  
    
   
    
   
 
  

   

"me: mt; 5 and, particularly, one day walking, \\ my gun in my hand, by

the sea--side, I was i'ei

 

plansive upon the aubjeum of my present conditiun, when

   

reason, as it were, "postulated with me the other "Wily, films: ---- " Wt << on are
in a desolate condition, it is true; but: pray, remember, where are the TM: 01' g-'mI'!

Did nut. you come eleven of you into the boat? \Vlmm are

 

he tam? 'Why were
they not: saved, and ymi lost? Why were you singled out? Is it, hatter to in:
here or there?" And then I pointed to the sea. All evils an: it) he. mush-101w!
with the good that: is i n them, and with what. worse attended them.

 

Then it Ducut'l'ed to me again, how well I was. furnished for my suhsn,

 

awn.

and what- nould have been in, Ise'il' it: had not. happened, which is ' an hnndi'vd

 

 

thousand to one, that. the =hip Heated li'nm tilt! place \vl'nre. slm first. struck, nnd
was driven so new: the shore: that I had time ht: get all things out at her. What
would have been my case, if I had been t-J have lived in the cundith'm in which 1
'ies to supply and
nld I.

have done withunt a gun, without mnnmnition, without any tools to maku any

at first came on shore, without. necessaries of life, up: new

 

 

procure them? " 'articxdnrly," Stud J, loud, :hnngh to myself, "what. ,

thing, 0): to wank \t'ith----with(lut Clothes, bedding, a tent, 01' any nmmicr ol
covering and that. now I had all lhusc to a mfiiclunt. quantity, and was in a nut

 

way tn provide myself in such a manner as to live without. niv gun "'1ch m '
amnnmitiun was spent; so that. I had a lolcml.>>lc View of subsisting withoue. a1-
want, as long as I lived: for I considered, from the beginninfc l""" I ""0""

 

provide for the accidents that might: happen, and for the thin: that. was to Come,
even not 01in after my uunutmit-lo'n should be spent, but, even after my health 01'
strength altould decay.

T confess I had. not entertained any nation of my ammunition being destroyed
N' can: hlzisf, I mean, my powder being blojwn up by lightning; and this made the.
thoughts of it so surlwising to me when it lightened and thundered, ns I observed

just now.

And now, lacing about to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent
life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before, I shall take it. {mm
its beginning, and continue it. in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of

 

September, when, in the manner as above said, I fimt set foot upon this horrid
island, when the sun being, to us, in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head; for I reckoned myself by observation, to be in the latitude of nine
(lagrees twenty-two minutes north uf the Line. After I had been there about ten

 

 

 

01' twelve clays, it came into my thoughts, that I. should lose my reckoning of time
for wmtt of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sfllmeh days
fmm the working days; but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
pest, in capital letters, and making it into a great 01-05:, I set it up on the shore
where I first landucl, namely, I came on shore here on the 30th of September,
1659. Upon the sides of this squnn: post, I cut. every day it notch with my knife,
and every seventh notch was as long vain as the rest, and every lint. (la'ir of the
imntli as long gain as that long one; and thus I. kept my calendar, or weekly,
manthly, and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next. place, we are 1.0 observe, that among the many things which I
brought out of the. ship in the several voyages, which, as above mentioned, I made
to it, I gm. several things of less value, but not at all, less useful to me, which I
omitted sc (.3 down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several
pnmcls in the captain's, mate's, gutmefs, and carpenter's keeping, three or Your
connmsses, some umthematiml instruments, llials, perspectives, charts, and books
Oi" Imvigalion, all which I l'xta'ltllcd together, whether I might want them or no.
Also, 1 [amid thmc- very good Bibles, which came to me in my cargo {mm
England, and which I hurl packed up among my things; some. Portuguese books,
also, antl among them MI) or three Popish prayer-hooks, and several other books:
all which I carefully secured. And we must: not forget, that we haul in the ship
:1 (log and two oats, of whose eminent history I [nay have occasion to say some-
thing in its. place; for I carried hath the cats with me; and as for the dog, he
jumped out of the ship of himself nml swam on chore to me the (lay after I
\chr on shore with m)- lirst cargo, nnrl was a trusty servant- to me runny years: I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he could make
up to me-- I only wanted to have him talk to me ; but that he could not. do.
As 1 observed before, I [mind pen, ink, and paper, and l l'tllbl'mntlt'll them to the.
utmost; and I shall ahew, that while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact; hut
after that was gone I could not, for 1 could not. make any ink by any means that
I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, imtwithstzualiug all that
I had mnassed together ; and of these, this: of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe,
mid shovel, to dig or where the earth: needles, pins, and thread; as for linen I
soon learnt to want that without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily, anal it. was near a
whole year before .1 had entimly finished my little pale, or surrounded habitation :
the piles, or stakes, which wait: as hem-J,- as i could well lift, were a long time i"
Cutting and preparing in the woods. and more by far in bringing home; 50 that l
spent sometimes two (lays in cutting aml bringing home mic 0f those 3.10815, and n

third (lay in driving it into the gwuml; iv): WlllCl' l'm'l'os" I got 9' heavy piece Of
woorl at first, but at last. hethonght myself of one of the irun crows, which,
however, though I found it, yet it made dfiVinS those POMS 01' lflcs' very laborious
and tedious work.we": <<1,: $51" , <->>---'--'

ADVEBTURES (1F ROBINSON URllEUl-E.

 

l'mt wlzm' neml I have been concerned :1? {lie tuilimmness of any thing 1 lmxl

 

{,3 (lo, Eeeim: 1 lmcl mm: enough to du i( in ;' Fur til I any other employment,
if [lull lizul lJt'l'll over, nl. least lllat I cvulal lbwscc, (:xm'pr [lie flinging the island

2:.) seek for fmcl, whiz-l1 I dial more or less ewrv ulny.

 

gm? rmtl le (:erUll'lel'dCcS I "as

 

I now hogan to consider: au'io _ ' my concli

:x in writing, um. so mm'll. to leave.

 

l'edunm'l to, and I dmw up the. slate of my all:
llwm Ir; any that xwrn to come after me (Eur I was like to have but Few llL'lR'): as
to Lleliwr my filmnughts 'nm Gully poring upon them, and afflicting my mir/i; auLl

~an as

something

  

 

us my reuslm lmgam new lo "1:1:th my Llespondoncy; I began to mmfmt m,

   

well its 1 L'Uulli, and to 52:: the gmd against the evil, dull: '1 might 11m
to Llistii
nml creditor, the cvml'-J1'l3 I enjoyed against the mm'c'

lull my case {mm warm: and I stated it vugv impartially, like debtor
I snfiercd, time :--

 

 

1-1\=n.. noon.

and Hal. Alim'iuell, ("i All )1le

 
  

1 sm Casi. "pun a hen-ible :lcsclrilc lslmul, BM T am
will of all imp: cf r-:'um . siup's compo>>.
1 mu 3i Wlk'l (all. 7mi- M'IIuJ - ll!" l. mu Sillglllllflll to"
fun" ml Lin; warle, ta lie wiseralaln. to lie srdtl'rfl l'
\cula'islv saved w

 

 

 
 

Hot; 1" llar amp"!

 

   

 

nf
mi: l'mm this c-mdiiion.

 

   

Bul. 1 1w: 1 l.

I run Ill ' al ii 11 muLincl; :1 .ve'
.' 'wm'eu plmx',

banished ("mm launzr.
l lim-c no ('lullzt's Lu cow-r me.

 

:4, or n'mns lo wsihl.
L.

1 nth willmui any (lull
any uclczzce of

 
   

'll httfll'
enough in film Fl" '12, l.li{xl. I hm" 'n 011: if:
mam necessu's t rga us will )1} my
wunls, or enable mt: to sliwls my f) even .13
lung us 1 live.

   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

. L' no 50111 lo spnuk to, or relieve nut.

  
 

        

 

L'pmi ilm whole; here was gm umlmxlwtctl tcsliuwn'y, that llm'c was

 

nnj- candilion in the world so miserable; but lhci'c was something m0
and let

something )lrlsifl'i'd in be thankful for in i ,

 

stand :1 Ll;

     

from the experience of the must mivm'ulc Of all L'Dll'.lltl01)$ in Il1i~3 world, that

 

we may always find in if. mm ' to cmnfm'l': ourselves from, and 1.: set. in film

lit. snlc of the account.

 

description of gouil <<ml (ml rm the
Hm'ing now Draught. my mind a little to relish my condition, and gin?" m'ie':

 

lookinw out to sea. to sec 11" I could s w :1 Flu" 1- <<I :11 living we}: they: llxint's.
n . v a :5 i. b
J. began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living, and to make things as:

may in mi: ns i could.

 

l. lim'n already (1 i-ilvcrl my habitation, \'rliirli was ii. tent, mu 4' "10 sizle (Ill a

   

rock, surruundenl with a strong palm of post:
62AJM'ICKTUREH ()h' ROBINEOYS CRUSOE.

  

 

 

  

call it it wall; far I raised :1. ldml of wall up against it of tm'fix', about twg feet
: and after some time--1 think it; was a. year and zll1:llf-<-T
raised rafters from it, loaning to) {he rock, and thatched or covered it. with hmxghs

 

thick on the vute

(If trees: and such ihings a? 1 (foul-ll get it) keep our- the min, which T f'mmrl m1

scum: times of The y 'su' ve ' vialunt.

 

 

I have alreu, .rl)Sr~.r\'orl how T hrnuglti' all my gouds lulu this ' c, and imo

   

the cave wlx'wh I haul maulc behind me; but I must observe, too, that at first this
Win a. I'anl'h't'il heap of goods, which, us the; lny Tu In) order, so they fuck up all
my place: T 11ml no 1'0me 90 turn myinlf, so T 30L myself to enlarge my care and
works farther mm the ear:

    

' for it. was :1 know gaudy ruck,

 

vlcltlml easily (a

the labour T bestowed on it--nml :0, when I found I was pretty safe. as to the

    

beasts of Prey, T. Worked sidnw: x In tho ri_ '.I' hand intn Um ruck; and than,
turning to the fight ngnin, \vuz'liml quite out, :mcl made: me av. door to mmn out, an
the outside of my pale or fortificnfinn.

This gave me nut. only egress and regress, as if. were a bitch way to my tent
am] to my storehouse, l'nuc gave me, mom to stow my gumls.

And now I bugzm PS0 apply )Iwiull'. (0 make such necessary things as I Tuuml I
must wantcrh particularly n-clmh: and :\ tnhle: for without rhese I was nur able m
min}; the few comforl's T harl in the. world--<<T cnulrl not, write or out.) 01- (10 several
things, with so much pleasure without a table.

SI) T went in Work; and here T mnsf nccrls observe, Hml' ns rnnsnn is Um
subszzmce and mighml of mmhcmnlics, Sn, bv stating and squaring nvm'y thing 11y

roam", nnd by unwn'g the most- :'utioual ju umeut of things, every man may 11R

 

in time. masi-
yet in time, by labour, applienfion) and cnmrivmlce, I fmmrl nr last that I wanted

 

.' of c'vm'y manlmnic art. I had norm- hsmrllml :1, tool in my and

 

nothing but I could have made if, especially if I had had to. however, I mndv
all-ulnlflncc of things even wirhnnl. (nols, nml some with 1:0 muru. took than an
arlie and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were never "mule that way hefin'c; and ilzat
with infinite labour-- fm- cxamplc, if ] wanted a horn-(l, I had no other way but.
1,0 cut dawn a. Tree, set it. on zm edge before. me, and. hew it "M (m eithur side with
my axe, till I imd brought. it to he as thin am- :1 ylanlz, and then dub it. mouth
with my ndzc. H is' true, by this method I could make but one hoard (Inf. of A
whole tree: but this I 1le no remedy for but patience, any more than 1 had for
1.11:: pmdigirms (lml of time. and labour which it. took me up In make a plank or
board; but my time and labour were lit-[ha worth, and so Hwy were a: well
mnployed one wny as another.

However, 1 made me a table and a chair, as I ohsm'red shore, in the first
plum: --- nnd this T (TM M". of [he ehort. pieces of [wards that T brought. on my mil.
from the ship; but, when T hurl wrought. out. same boards, I made. Inrgfu shelves

G3of the breadth of a foot and a half one over another, all along one side of my
mvc, to in}: all my tools, nails, and iron-w01'k,:md, in a. word, to sepnmte every
thing at huge in their places, that I might come easily at them. I knocked
pieces inlo the. wall of the rock to hang my guns, and all (hings that would
hang up.

So that, had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general nmguz-ine of all
necessary things ; and I had every thing so ready at my hand, that. it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in midi order, and especially: to find my stock
of all necessaries so gmnlz.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's employment;

    

for indeed at fil'sL I was in too much a hurry; and mi (ml)r him}: as to lnlvnur,
but in too much discomposui'e 0f mind, and my journal would have been full of
many (lull things. For
example, I must lmve
said thus : Soplem-
bet the 30th, afler I
got to shore, and had.

 

-_~ t, &

escaped drowning, in-
steud of being thank-
ful to God far my de--
livewnce, having; "nit
vomited with the gmut

"Men--"WM. _...,..v,_t_._.

quantity of salt water
which was gotten int-J '
my stmnach, and rew--

wring myself a little,

I run nhmn: the shore,

"fir"'wfl "

wringing my hands and
heating m)- l:ead nml
face, cxclniming at my

 

misery, and crying out,
I was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, hut dun-st not sleep for fear uf being devoured. i
Some days after this, and after I hml been on heard the ship, and gal all that ,3;
I could out of her, yet I could not fox-bem- getting up to the top of a. little. i-i
mountain, and looking out to scan, in hopes of seeing a ship; them fancy at a vast
distance I spied a sail--please myself with the hopes of it--and then, after
looking stenrlily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, :qu sit down and ween like
a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly.But having gotten over these things in
some measure, and having settled my house--
hold stuff and habitation, made me a mblc
and a chair, and all as handsome about me
as I could, I began to keep my journal, of
\vhichI shall here give you the copy (though
in it will 1):: told all these particulars over

again) so long as it lasted; fm', having no

more ink, I was forced to lenve it. off.Sermimm 30m, 10359,----I, ponr, miserable
Knbinson Crusoe, being shipwwched, during a
dreadful storm in the oll'ing, came on shore on t'h'u
dismal mil'oi'tunnzc island, which I called the Elan-i
of Despair; all the rest of the ship's cmnpany being
(ll'dfi'nmll. and 11131881 . most (lend. All the 1'05ch the. day I spent. in afflicting
myself a? lllc dismal cirmimstauces I was lift/light to, namely, 1 hurl neither food,
house, clullms, weapon, nor place to fly to, and in despair of "any relief; smv
nothing-hut. death before me, either that 'I should ha
devoured by wild beasts, murdeml by savages, 01'
starved in death for \smn. of food. Al. {he approach
ol' night I slept in a tree, for lnnr of wild creatures,
but slept gounrlly, thungh it rained all night.

OCIOBER 1.--'[n the morning I saw to my great
surprise, the ship had flamed. with the high title and
was dn'ven on shore again, much nearer the island;
which, as it wag some comfort on one hand, for seeing

. her sil. upright, and not broken [0 pieces, I hopetl, if
the wind ulmletl, I might get. on board, and gar some food and necessm'ies out vl'

her for my relief ; :50, on tlm other hand, it. renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all staid on board, migrln~ hnve saved the
ship: or at 1cm: that they would not have been all drowned as they were: nml
than haul die men been sawed, we might perhaps have built us a boat out'ol' Hm
ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some olhcr part of the world. I spent
great part of this day; in perplexing myself on these things; but at length seeing
the ship almost (by, I went. upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board. This day also it continued miixhig, though with no wind at all.L'--

ADVEN'IURES 01? ROBINSON CRCSOE.

FROM Till-2151' or Oc'roman TO THE firm--All
these days entirely spent in many sevcml voyages to
gel. all I could ms or" the ship, which I brought uu
shone, every tide of flood, upon rafts. M'uch will also

i in these days, though with some intervals of fair

weather; but it seems this was the rainy season.

001'. 20.----I ovmsefi my \lft, and all the goncls I
lmrl gut upon it; lull. being in shoal water, and the

'4"
Wii things. living chiefly heavy, I Ncovei'etl many of llacm
.ngfi when the title was out. '

OCT. 25. ---It. rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind; (luring which time the ship
broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than
"fore, and was no more to lie seen nxcept the wreck
of her, aunl that only at low water. I spent this (lay

in covering and seeming the goods which I haul saved, that win might, not spoil

them .

OCT. 26.n--Zl Walked about the shore nlmnsz. all
(lfij', '0 find out. a place: to fix my lmlillmion, greatly
mm'ci'm'xl la secure myself from any attack in the
night, either from wilxl hensus or men. 'Rm'm'llfi
night I fixed nxmn a. proper ltllu'l' under 9. mo , nml
marked out. n semicircle for my encampment, nhirh I

resolved to strengthen with a work, wall. or fortification, made of double. piles,
lined within with cubh, and without with turf.

Fuom 1m; 2611: TO THE 30m I worked vex-y
lml'd in cmfljy'ing all my guild>>; to my new lmbimtiun,
though some part, ol' the lime,- iL mined exceedingly
llnwl.

Tim 3131' in the morning, I went out into the

" island with my gun, to xeek l2>>: some fund, and

(liscuvcr the country; when I killed a sl1c~goat,nml
her kirl follow-ml me home, which I afterwards killed
also, because it would nut feed.
Nowmnnn l.-----I set up my tent under a. rock,
and lny there for the first nigh!) making it as large as
.I could, with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
upon.

NOV. 2.--l set up all my chests and boards, and

_ the pieces of timber, which made my rafts, and with

I them formed a fence round me, a little within the.
place I had marked out for my fortiticmion.

Nov. 3.----I went out with my gun, and killed two
.. l'owls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
': afternoon went. :0 work to make me a table.

I'Iov. d.----Tlxis morning: I began to order my

times of work--~0f going out with my gun, time of

' sleep, and time of diversion : namely, every morning

I walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if

_ ,. _ it (lid not win, then employed myself ('0 work till

about. eleven n'clnnk', then Mr.- whut I luul to live. on, and from twelve to two I lay

down 1.0 sleep, the weather being excessimly lion, and than in the evening to work

again. The working part of this clay, and. of the next were wholly employed.

in making my table; for I was yet but. u. very sorry workman, though time and

necea-sily mmlc me a couxplelc natural mechanic soon after, as I. believe it would
do any one else.

Nov. 5.---~ This day Went abroad with my gun and
my dog, and killed a wild cut; her skin pretty soft,
but her flesh good for nothing: every cl'eatiu'e l

. killed, I took off the skins and plwei'veul them.

 

Coming back by the sen-shore, I saw many sorts of"
sen-fouls, which I (lid not understand: but: was surprised, and almost- frighted,
with two or three senlzs, which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what they
were, got. into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.---Aftur my morning walk, I went to

Work with my table again, and finished it, thougl

i not to my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
 

N 0v. 7. --Now it began to he settled fair weathex. The "Ith, 8th, 9th, 10th,
and part of the 12th, (for the 11th "'21.; Sunday) I tool: wholly up to make me a
chair, and with much ado, brought it to a. tolerable dupe, but never to please

me; and oven in the making, I pulled it in pieces several timcs.----~ Note. I soon
neglected my keeping Smxdays; for omitting my maxk for them on my post, I
forgot which was which.

Nov. 13. ---'l'lns day it rained, which refreshed

ne exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was

34",: accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning,

" w" which ffightcd me dreadfully for fear of my powder.

As soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder into a mmwy
little parcele as possible, that it might not be in danger.

Nov. H, 1.5, lit--These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might lxold
shout :2. pound, or two pound at most: of powder: and
so putting the powder in, I stowed it in places as

. secure and remote from one another as possible.
On one of these three days, I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I knew
not what to call it.
ll Nov. 17. - This day I began to dig behind my
'1 lent into the rock, to make mom for my furl-her

X0m.---'.l.'hme things I wanted exceedingly for
this work, namely, a pick-axe, a shovel, and it wheel--
barrow, or basket; so I desisted :Crom my work, and
began to consider how to supply that want, and make
me Some tools: as for u picleaxxe, I made use 01' the

iron crows, which were proper enough, though hem-j,r : but. the next thing was a
shovel or spade; this \Vfls so absolutely necessary, that indeed I could do nothing.
en'ectually without it, but what kind of one. in make I knew not.

Nov. 18. -----'l'he next day, in searching the Weeds,

I found. :1 tree. of il'lmt wood, or like it, which in the

. Brazils they call the iron tree, for its exceeding

hurthiess : of this, with great labour, and almost,

" spoilingmylaxc, I Cut a pieCe, and brought ii: home

too with difficulty enough, for it was. exceedingly heavy. The excessive hardness

of the wood, and having no other way, made me :1 long while upon tlii,a machine;

for I myrliecl it elleetually liy little and little into the Form of a1 shawl or spade,

the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only that. the brand pzu't having

in) iron shoal upon it at hettmn, it would not last me so long: however it served

Well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to ; 'but never was n shovel,
I believe, made after that fashion, on so long a--inaking.

1 was still zleficieul, for I wanted a. basket or n

a... wheel--burrow: a hnsket I could not make by any

~ means, having no such things as twigs, lhnt would

bend to malle- wicker-ware, a: least. not yet found out :

- ..
and as tb a wheel-horrmv, I fancied I could make all
but the wheel, hut that I had no notion of, neither

(lid I know how to go- ahout it; besides I horl no possible wsy to make the iron

glnlgeons for the spindle, or axis of the wheel, to run in, so l gnvc it. over; and

so for carrying away ("(2 earth. which I dug out. of the cave, l mnde me a thing

like a lied, which the labourers carry niurlm' in when tliev serve the lwiclcla ei's,
This was not so (lillicult to m: as the making the shovel , and yel- this and flu:

shovel, and the attempt which. I made in vain to make u wheel-hammw. took me
up no less than four days----I mean always cxeeining my morning walk with my
gun, which I seldom failed: anal seldom fnilorl also in bringing home something

Nov. 23. -- Mv other work having now stmrl still,
y". lwcause of my making these tools when they" new

finished I went on, 5111!] 1501-11ng over}- dz}, as mv

_ sirenvth and time all-med I spenl. eighteen (laws
WM . ' eutheb m wideninw and (la: Aponing mycave, that it.
might hold my goods connnodiuusl}.

NOTE. --Dlu'ing all this time I worked to malie this room, or cave, spacious
enough to uccnmniodar'e me as n warehouse, or magazine, :1 kitchen, or dining-
1'0-3111, and a cellar: as for my lodging, I kept. in the tent: except that sometimes,
in the. wet season of the year, it rainml so hard rlml. I could not keep myself dry,
which unused me afterwards to cuver all mf'plsme within my pale will! long poles
in the form of rafters, leaning against the rook, and load them with flags and
large lcm'rs of [mes like a thatch.

Ducal-minim 10.--I began now to ihinh my care or
van", finished, when an a. sudden (it seems I had
made it (no large) 11 great quantity of earth i'eil down
from the top and (mi: side, so much tlmt in shm'l. it
frightecl me, and ML without rem-Jun m0; [211- if' 1 had

been unde1 it, I had never minted a grm c-diqvcr Upon this disaster I had a.
gram deal of wed: in (lo) over again , for I had the lame. eanh to carry out, mid,
which was of more importance, I 11ml the ceiling m prop 111;, so that, I might be
sure no more would mime down.

DEC. ll.----- This (lay I wont. to work will! it
accordingly, and got two shares, or posts piicln'd
upright to the top with two pieces 01' boards across
(n'L'l' each post; this I finished ihc next Clay: and
setting more posts up with ham-(ls: in about a WC(:l(

mom 1 hail the roof secured; and the posh, standing in rows, served me for
partitions to part nfl' my house.

DEC. 17.-- From (his: day in the 20th I placed shelves, and knocked up mils
on the. posts to hang every thing up umber/11M be hung up; and now I began to
be in same order within doors.' :\\67'RI-Tn - m

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 
 
   
  
   
     
 
 

 

Dec. 20.-No\v I carried every thing 'mio Ilm cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set some. pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my vicluals
upon ; but boards began to be very scarce with me : also I made me another table.

 
 
 

DEC. 24.-- Much min all night and all day; no

slirring out.

Dim. 25.>>Rnin all day.

DEC. 26,--No min, and the (-9th much cooler
than before, and pleasant/er.

 

DEC. 27.---Kiilenl a young goat, and lamcd another,
:9 so that I caught it, and led il. home in :1 string: when
. I hml it home, I bound uml splintexed up its leg,
. which was hmke.-- KB. .1 took such care of it, that

it lived, and the leg grew well and. as strong as ever;

 
 
 
 
 

but by nurshlg it so long it grow 0mm>>, and fed upon the little green at. my door,x--Wm
' . W'fnnvsyrcnns

 

and would not go away. This was the first time that l emertaiued a thought of

b'mcrling up some tame creatures, that 1 might have food when my powder and
shot was all spent.

[m Farflcqlmka]

DEC. 23, '29, 30.----Greac heats and no bro-3.70: so that there was no
stirring abroad, except. in the evening, for food. This time 1' spam, in pulling
all my things in order within doom.

JANUARY 1. --Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with my gun,

and lay mill in the middle of the day. This evenino. going further into the

a,
 

valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I found there was plenty of
goats, though exceedingly shy and hard to come at; however, I resolved to try if
I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.

_ (Luv. 2.--Accordingly, the next day I went with
a my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mis-

taken, for they nllfncod about upon the dog; and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them.

JAN. 3.--I began my fence, or wall, which, being
>>. still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I
resolved to make very thick and strong.

N.B.--This wall being described before I purposely omit what was said in
the journal; it is sufficient to ohsorvo, that-1 wanno less a. time than to tho Nth
of April, working, iiniuhing, and perfecting this wall, though it was no more than
about twenty-four yards in length, being a half circle from one place in the rock
to another place about eight. yards fiom it, the door of the cave being in the
motto behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many days, nay,
sometimes weeks together; but I thought I should novcr he perfect!)r secure until
this wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what inexpressihlc labour every
thing was done with, eSpecially the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving
them into the ground ; for I. made them much bigger than I need to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced with it turf wall
raised up close to it, _I persuaded myself, that if any people were to come on
shore there they would not perceive any thing like a. habitation; and it was
very well I did so, as may he observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable
occasion. I

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods

for game, every day, when the rain permitted me,

"and made frequent discoveries, in there walks, of

something or other to my advantage; particularly, I

found a kind of wild pigeons, who built, not. as wood

pigeons in a. tree, but rather as house pigeons, iu the holes of the rocks: and
taking some young ones, I endeavmn'od to bring them up tame, and did so: but
when they grew older they flew away, which, perhaps, was at. first for want offeeding them: for I had nothing to give them. However, I frequently found
their nests, and got: their young ones, which were very good meat.

And now, in the mmiaging my household affairs, 1 found myself wanting in
many things, which I thought id. [inst it was impossible for me to make, as, indeed,
as to some of them, it was --for instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped.
1 had a small mnlet or two, as I observed befom, but I could never arrive to the
capacity of making one by them, though I spent many weeks about it; I could
neither put in the heads, nor joint. the stares so true to one another as to make
them hold water, so I gave that also over.

In the next place I was at a great, loss for candle, so that. as soon as ever it
was dark, which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obligad to go to bed.
I remembered. the lump of bees' m with which I made candlea in my African
adventure, but I had none of that now. The only remedy 1 had was, that, when
I killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I
baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some onkum, I made me a lamp;
and this gave me a light, though not a clear steady light like a, candle. In the
middle of all my labours, it, happened that, rummaging my things, i found a. little
bug, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the feeding of poultry,
not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ahip came from Lisbon.
W'hnt little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured with the
rats, and I saw nothing in the bug but liusks and dust: and being willing to have
the bag for some olhcr use--I think it was to put powder in, when I divided in
for fear of the lightning, or some such rise--1 shook l-he husk,>>~ of mm out of it,
on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the grmt rains just now mentioned, that I threw this
skull: away, taking no not-ice of any thing, and not so much as remembering that
I had thrown any thing there : when about a mouth after, or thereuhoux, I snw
some few stalks of sonioclxing green shooting out. of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had. not seen ; but I was surprised and pu'l'octly astonished,
when, after 9. little longer time, I saw about ten or twelvo cars come out, which
were perfectly green barley, of the same. kind sis our European--nay, as our
English barley.

It is impoSsihlc to express the astonishment and confiision of my thoughts On-
this occasion. I had hitherto ucted upon no religious foundation at all. Indeed,
I had very few notions of religion in my head, or had entertained any sense of
any thing that had hefallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say,
what pleases God; without so much as enquiring into the end of Provirlenm in
these things, or his order in governing events in the world. But aller I saw
loan-Icy grow there, in a climate which I knew was not prepor for com, andespecially, that I knew nut how it came there, it startled me strangely, and I
began m suggest, that. God had miraculously causeti this grain to grow, without
any help of seed sown; nnrl that it so was directed, purely for my sustenance on
that wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little and brought. team out of my eyes, and I began
to bless myself that such a prodigy of nuturefihould happen upon my account;
and this was the more strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along by
the aide of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved lo be stalks of
rice, and. which I knew because I had men it grow in Africa, when I was ashore
there. _ '

I not only thought, these the pure pmductions of Pwvideuce for my support,
but, not doubling but that tho-re was inorc in the place, I went all over that part

 

of the island where l hm! been before, peeping in every corner, and under evel'y
rock, to see for mom of" it; but I could not find any. At. last it occurred k) my
thought, that I had shook a bag of chicken's mom. out. in that place, and Hum the
wonder began to cease; and I must confess, my religious thmikfiilncss to God's
providence began to abate Loo, upon discovering lhal, all this was nothing; but
what was common, though I. ought to have been as thankful for so strange and
unforeseen 11 Providence, as if il. had been mimcnlous; for it was really the work
of Providence, as to me, that should order or appoint. bell or twelve grains of
corn to remain unspoiled, when i-lw rats had desiroyexl all the rest, an if it had

76

 
 

1:")W'Mu'wbc' . "WWW". . .-

A
been dropped from Heaven --ns, also, that I should thrmv 1!: 0111.111 that particular
p. 'acc, whom, it heing 111 the shade 01' :1 hit/h 1:111:11, it spmng up immediately;
whereas, if I had thrown' It 3.11}- where else at that time, 1: had been burn: up
and destroyed

I caraully NW6d the cam (11' com, you may he sure, in their season, which
was 111111111 the end of June, and laying up every corn, I resolved 1.1) sow them all
again, hoping in time to have some "quantity sufiicicnl to supply me. with broad;
111111: 11:15 1101 1111 the fourth year 1.11:1: I could allow 111yself the ham grain of
this corn in (2:11, and (won then but spm'inglv, as I shall say afterwards 1n its
o1dzgr--for I lost 1111 I sowed the his: 1161:1501), by no: nbsen'ing the prupe1 time--
for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up :11: all, :11 least,
not so :13 it would have done --of which in its place.

Besides this barley, them mire, as above, twenty or 1.111 1-1.1; stalks of rice, which
I preserved with the same care, $111.1 whose 1130 was of 1111: same kind, or 1.1) the
same purpose, 1121-u1uly, to make me bread, or rather food: for I found ways Lo
cool; it. 11 11 without balshig, though I did that also after some time. But to return
10 my journal.

I "'Ol'ked cxcmsivcnly hard these three or four months 1.0 5.11.3.6 my wall done ;
{11111 the 141.11 of April I closed 11. up, cuntriring 1.0 go into it, not bv :1 door,
1111!. over the wall 11;; a. ladder, that. there might be no sign in the omside of my
habitation.

Axum. 16. ---I finished the ladder; so I went up
will: the lad -dcr to 1:10. 1011, 11111.1 then pullrd it up
enter me, 3.1113.ch if. (1111111 (111 the inside. This was :1.
1.011111 ete enclosure in 1111.1- for uithin I hnd 1110111

enough, and nothing could come at me from 1111110111, 1u1leSS~1 it could first. 111011111.
'11}: wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost; 111111 all my labour
overcome at once, and myself killed. The case was thus :----as .1. was busy in the

inside ofit, behind my tent, just in the entrance. into my cave, I was terribly
frighted him s 111031 dreadful surprising thing 1111111911; 11.>>! 011 :1 81111111311 1, 111111111
the earth come crumbling down from the roof of 111}, <<we, mid from 1111'. Mgr: of
the hill over 111;- head, 1111:] two (11' the mesJ haul ~01. up in the. 0111-11 cranked 1'11 :1
frightful manner. I was heartily scared, hut. thought 1111111111,; of what was really
1.111>>. case, only thinking tlmt the. top of my cam was falling in, as some of it had
(lone before; and, for fear [should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder,
and not. thinking nurself safe there neither, I got over my wall fnr fear of the
pieces of 1111111111, which I expectal mighL roll rlmvn 11pm me. I wax no sooner. 'm3-&<< mm'mmWM-WMZ "22"" eai-naf;

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

stcpt down upon the firm ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible carthqiuxke,
for the ground I stood on shook three times at about. eight minutes' distance, with
three such shocks, as would have overturned the strongest building that could be
supposed to have stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half 3. mile from me, next the sen, fell down with such a
terrible noise as I never heard in all my life: I perceived also the very sea was
put into violent motion by it: and I believe the shocks were stronger under the
water than on the island.

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like, or discoursed
with any one that had, that 1 was like one dead or stupilied; and the motion of
the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of
the falling of the rock awakod me, as it were, and, rousing me from the stupified
condition I was in, filled me With horror, and I thought of nothing then but the
hill falling upon my tent. and all my household 1goods, and burying all at once;
and thus sunk my vex-3r soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began to
lake courage; and yet 1 had not. heart enough to get over my wall again, for
fear of being buried alive, but still set upon the ground, greatly cost down and.
disconsolato, not knowing what to do. All this while I had not the least serious
religious thought, nothing but the common "Lord have mercy upon mol" and
when it was over, that. went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it would
rain; soon after that, the wind rose by little and little, so that in less than half an
hour it blow a most theadt'ul hurricane: the son was all on a sudden covered over
with foam and fmth, the shone was covered with the breach of the water, trees
were torn up by the roots, and a terrible storm it vms , and this held about three
hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours more it was stark calm, and
began to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected, when
on a sudden it came into my thoughts, that these wind>> and rain being a.
consequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and 1

 

 

5}

 

1'35 might venture into my cave again , with this thought my spirits began to revive,
i and, the ruin also helping to persuade me, I went in and sat down in my tent, but
i the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I
L? was {owed to go into my care, though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear it
, should fall on my head.
l'l _ - :I'his'violont ruin forced me to a new work, namely, to cut a. hole through my
lornficntmn like a sink, to let water go out, which would else have drowned my

2.
cove. After I had been in my cave some time, and found still no more shocks of

76

 

 

 

i;

w;

x1?

kJWQv-Q'. mm'vfflpwkm <<Mmlz-(W'$-4n6'7 fit!
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRESOE. v30

. . i
the earthquake folIOW, I began to be more composed; and now to support my

;
'4".
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and took Y.
a small cup of rum, which, however, I did then, and always very sparingl), SS
knowing I oculd have no more when that was gone. 3

u

could not stir abroad; but, my mind being more composed, I began to think of
what I had best do, concluding, that-if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there would he no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building me
some little hut in an open place, which I might, sun-ound with a wall as I had
_ done here, and so nuke myself secure i'nom wild heasts or men: but concluded,' if
I staid where I was, I should cenniniy, One time or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place where it
stood, which was just under the hanging precipice of the bill, and which, if it '
should be shaken again would certainly fall upon my tent. And I spent the two
next davs, being the 19th and 20th of April, in conniving where and how to
remove 11w habitation.

'l he fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never slept in quiet, and
yet the apprehension of hing abroad without any fence was almost equal to it ,
but still, when I looked about, and saw how every thing was put in order, how
pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from doingcr, it made me very loath to
remove.

In the meantime, it occurred to me, that it would require a vast deal of time
for me to do this, and that I must be content to run the. venture where I ms, till
I had formed a. camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it. So
with this resolution I composed myself for a time, and resolved that I should go
to work with all speed, to build me a. wall with piles and cables, &c., in a. circle as
hefoic, and set my tent up in it when it. was finished; but that I would venture to
stay where I was till it was finished, and lit to remove to. This was the 21st.

It continued raining all that night, and great part of the next day, so that I '

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   

APRIL 22.- The next. morning I began to consider of means to put this
resolve in execution, but I was at. it great loss about my tools. I had three large
axes, and abundance of hatchet-s (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the
Indians) ; but, with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all
full of notches and dull,- and, though I had a grindsmnc, I could not; turn it, and
grind my tools too; this cost me as much thought as n statesman would have
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and death of a.
man. At length I contrived a wheel with a. string, to turn it with my foot, that
I might have both my hands at liberty. Natc.-- I had nevu- seen any such thing
in England, or at least to take notice how it was done, though since I have

79
'-I . . . :
SS observed it very common there; besides that, my grindstmm was very large and , '2:
a? heavy. This machine cost me a fix" week's Work to bring it. to perfection.

     

A mm. 28, 29.--Tiiese. ma whole days I took up in grinding my tools, my
machine for turning my gri'ndstone performing very we".

AVRIL 30.--IIU.\~'ing perceived my hrmd hm] hccn
low n great while, now I took a survey of it.) and
reduced myself to one biscuibmkc n-(Iny, which made

 

my heart very heavy.

   

MAY 1.-----In the morning, looking tnwards the
sea-side, the tide baing low, I saw something lie on
the shore bigger than urdimuy, and it looked like a -
cask. When i. came to it, I fnunrl :1 small barrel,

     
  

and two or three pieces of the week 01' the shim/'1
.'e driven on short) by the late hurricane; and, looking inwards the
wreck itself, I thought it scenic/.1 to Lie higher om, of the water than it used to <10.
30:- ..._ Am.-.;:::5_.-;--'C/;; .

.3
}
l
I
I
<
i

27::

"'5'"...

I examined the bin-cl which was driven on
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gun-
powder, hm; it had taken water, and the pow-
der was cukad as hard as a smnc; hmv'ewx", I

' a...__2_. _.._._ _
. --u_,;m.;

rolled it further on shore for the pmsent,

and went on upon the sands as near as I could

to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, 1 found it

strangely removed; the f'omcnsuc, which lay SSbefore buried in sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the stern (which
was broke to pieces, and paiferl from the. rash by the
E9 (mm of the sen, soon filter 'I: had lefh rmmnaging
her) was tossed, us it were, up, and cast on one side:
and the sand was tlnxnvn so high on that. side next her
stern, that whereas there was a. great piece of wnlm'
balm-(1., so'lhat i could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without
swimming, 1 could now walk quite up to her when the title was out. 3 was
surprised with this at, first, but soon condudcd it must he'dono by the earth-
quake; and as by this violence the ship was more broken open than formerly, so
many things cnmc daily on shore, which the seat. had loosened, and which the

  
   

 

 
   
   
 

 
     
     
 
  

winds and water rolled by degrees to the land.

 
 

This wholly diverted my lhanglns From the design of removing my habitation ;
and I husied myself mightily, that day especially, in searching whether I could E
make any way into the ship; but 1 found nothing was to be expected of that
kinrl, lbr that: all llwc in lo'nf the ship was choked up with sand; however, as I

   
   
  
  
 

that. 1 could of the ship, concluding, that. every thing I could get from her, would.
he at" some use or other to me.

  

l.
had lcai'nrri not Lo despair of any thing, I resolved to pull every thing to picr'es 5:
MAY 3.----I began with my saw, and am. a, piece of E
i a beam through, which I though: held somn of the E

u'pper part or quarter-deck together, and when I hml
cut it tlmrugh, I cleared away the saml as well as I
could {mm the side which lay highest; but the tide

cuming in, I was obliged to give over for chat time.

New '1.---1 went :i-fishing, but mughr not. one fish that I thirst mi of, (ii! I
was many of the sporl, whcn, just going to leave off, T caught a young dolphin.
1 had made a long line of some rope~yam, but I had no hooks, yet I fi'mpieutly
caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat: all which i dried in the sun, and
ate them dry.

we 73% MAY 5. --Wr>rked on the wreck--cut anothci
W" beilul nsnntlci, and hmught than great fir planks oll'

 

   
 

iii

from the decks, which I tied togethei, and made swim if
~. on shore when the tide of flood came on. }'
(.1

I
MAY 6. ---W orkcd on the wreck again-- got soveml iron bolts out of her, 25,
and other pieces of' iron "(n-k; worked very hard and came home verv much ii
tired, and had thought: of gi\-ing it ovxci

S2
MM" 7.--W'C/nt to the wreck gain, but with an
invent ml. to work, but found the weight of the wrrck
had brought iise'if down, the beams being cut; that
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the

_ ' __? inside of the hold lily so open that I could see into it,
but almost full of waier and sand.

I

 

MAY 8.~W'cnl to the wreck, and carried sin iron
crew to wrench up the deck, which new lny quite
clear 01' the water in: mud; I wrenchml upon 'an)
[.ulzlnha, and brought them on slime also with the
tide : 1 left the iron crow iii the "red: for next (hi):

 

MAY 9.-- W'uit to the wrevh, and with the crow

made way inlo the, hotly (if the m and felt

 

 

several <<mks,>> nud- loosened them with the Crow, hilt

  

.5
ll
3

could not hmnl: them up; I felt also the roll of

English lead, and cauld stir it, but it. was tor; heavy to remove.

 
     
 
  

7} MAY 10, ll, 12, 13, fl.-.l.--"'czlt every (lay to the

-/ I o .

Egg wreak, {mil gm 2; great: many pieces of timber, and
lwzmls, or plnnh, and two or three hundred Weigllf- of
iron. :>> '

___,__.,_'~--._._.
m "' mmmsg.

~33..-

MM' 15.----I carried twu hatcheti, in try il' l Could
not (mi. :1 piece elf lhe roll of land, by placing the
edge ('1' one hatchet, and driving it, with the other,
but as i'o lay about a foot and a hall in the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.

     
  

. a.

 

MAY lli.-----It lmxl blown hard in the mic 3 and (he. wreck appeared mm'c
broken by the force of the warm; but I staid so long in the woods to gel. pigeons _i

for fond, that the. tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.

 

MAY 17.---- I saw some pieces ofthe \vmelc blown on sham, n: a gmat distance,
near two miles. off me, but, resolved to see what they were, and formal it was a
piece uf the head, but too heavy fur me to bring away.
MAY 24.----- Every dam.- to this day I --orl<cd\\ on the
wreck, and with hard labour 1 loosened some things
so much with the crow, that the first flowing title
several casks floated out, and two of the aeamon's

chests; but the wind blowing l'mm the shore, nothing came to land that day but
pieces of timber, and a hugsheml, which had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt
water and the. snmi had spoiled it.

I continued this work cvm'y day to the 15th of June, except: the time necessary
to get fund, which I always nppnintfll during this part of my employment. to hr:
when the tide was up, that I might be renuly when it was ebbecl out; and by this
time I hail gotten timber, anti plank, and iron work enough to have. lmilt a. goof]
boat, if I had known how; and also 1 got. at. several times, and in EOVCl'fll pieces,
near one hundred weight of sheet haul.

J um>>: IL'>>.----Going down to tho sea--side, I Found a

, large tortoise or turtle: this was the that that I had

"*'jl Econ, which seems was onlv my mislwlunc, not any

i.- defect of the place or scarcity; for luul I happened to

he on the other side of the island I might have had

hundreds of them every clay, as I found afterwards, but perhaps I had paid dear
enough for them.

JUSE 17er lspmu. in cooking the turtle: I found in her fill'eefiSCOl'C eggs,
and her flesh was to me, n: that time, the most sworn-y and pleusuul that. ever .I
tasted in my life, having had no flesh but of goats and fowls, since I landed in
this horrid place.

JUNE 18.---- Raincrl all day, and ] staid within. I thought at this time the
rain felt cold, and I was something chilly, which I knew was not. usual in that.
latitude.

JUNE 1SL-- Very ill, and shivering, us if the weather had been cold.
JUNE 20.-- No rest all night, violent pains in my head, and feverish.

J (rm: 2l.--~ Very ill, frightL-d almost to rlonthwith
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to he $30k; ("1d
no help. Frayed Lo God, for the first. time since. the
storm ofi Hull; but scarce knew what i said, or why,
my thoughts being all confused.

J:=._C/__-

JCML 22.------ A little better, but under dreadful npprohcnsions of sicknesa..v'

/'

 

ADVENTURES OF' ROBINS")! GltlZSOEi

 

Juxm 23.--- Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then a violent headache.
JUNE 24.----Much betl/ei'.

J [ENE 25.~--- An ngua very violent; the fit held me seven hours, cold fit and
hot, with {aim sweats after it.

J um 26. --l%ntl.m~; and, having no victuals in cat,
tank my' gun, but found myself very weak; however,
1 killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled some of it, and ate; I would faiu
have stewed it, and made some bwtlx, but had nu pot.

 

J USE 21--le agile again so violent, than I lay u-lwAl all day, and neither
ate nor drank. I was ready to perish l'o)' thirst, but so weak I haul not strength to
stand up, or to get my--
self any water to drink.
Frayed to God again,
but. was light-headed:
and when I was not, I
was so ignormxt, that I
knew not what to 5a~ ,
only I lay, and cried,
"Lord look upon me!
Lord Pity me! Lord
have mercy upon me 1"
I suppose I (lid nothing
else for two or three
hours, till, the fit wear-
ing off, I fell asleep,
and did not wake till
far in the night; when
l waketl I found. myself
much refreshed, but

weak, and exceedingly

thirsty: however, as I
had no water in my
Whole habitation, I was forced to lie till mowing, and went. lo sleep again. In
this mound sleep I had this terrible dream :--

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of my wall, where
I flat when the atorm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend

55,\T)VENTIIRES 0F ROBIX'SOX ()RUSOL'.

from a great it; ck cloud, in a bright Elaine ni'lirc, and light. upon the ground. lie
".95 all 0",)- mi 'nhi. as a flame, so that I could but. just bem- fo look towards
him; ' 's muuLQu .c was most incxpressihly dreadful, impossible for words to
describe; when he seeppetl upon ihe ground with his feet, I t'houn'lit the cnrih
'~ it haul done before in the earlhqnnke, and the air looked to my

 

      
 
 

 

 

tremble-J, just
apprehension as 1i 3!. had been filled with flashes of firm

He was no sooner landed upon the earth but lac moved forum-i] towards mo,
with :i long spent, on Weayon, in his lzzillfi to lill me; and mien he came to :L
rising ground, at some distance, he Spohn to me, or I heard a voice so terrible
that it
was :.his ---"' S

 

:i: to express the tau: 1' of it; all that I can my I understood,
. 1g all those things have. not brought, Lhm to 1'cpeumnt'c,iww
ch words, I thought he lified up the spear, that was in his

   
 
 
 

 

>> impcs

 

thou shalt (lie! 93.

hand r0 kill me.

No one thsl. shall ever read {his account, will expect that. I shall he able to
<<inscribe the horrors of my xoul at this terrible vision--II. mean that even while. it
was a drawn, I even dm med of them: horrors; nor is it. any more [)OSSilfld to
on limit remained upon my mind when I awaited and found

 

describe. the impi
it won but Ff. (lrcmn.

l had, alas! no <<liiinc lmowlmigie. What I hurl received by the goal
instruction of my father was then Worn on: b on uninterrupted series, for eight
mi 54 wickmlnchj and a constant. conveisotion with nothing hii";

 

 

years of ..
such as were, iike myasell', wicked and profane to flu>>: lust. dogma. I do no:
runemhnr that I laid, in all that aim, one thought. that. so much as tended either
to looking npwzucls ton'unhi God, or inwards towards a. reflection upon my own
it - . Bu"; a. certain stupidity of and, without desire of good, or conscience or
L'Hl, had entirely ovurnlxehrmri inc, and I was all that the most hardened,

   

    

' ed creature, among our common sailors, can he supposed to he,

sense, either of the fear of God in danger, or of timnlrfulucss

 

nnlhinking

 

not having this loos
to God in Lleliremnces.

In the relaxing what. is. nlmady past. of my story, {This wiil his the more easily
believed, when l slmil nrlil, that, through all the variety of miseries {lint illlti in
this day hei'ullen me, [ never had so much as one thought of it being the. hand of

God, 01' that it was a just inishment for my sin--any rebellious behaviour

 

 

:iysiinel; my father, or my pietent sins, which were great-<<or so much as a
punishment for the geneml cum-so of my wicltozl life. When I was on the
tlcapm'aio expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one
iiiouglit of what. would her-mic of me, or one wish to God in (lime! me whither I
Should. go, or keep me from the danger which apparently surrounded me, as well
from voracious creatures ascruel savages; but. I was merelythonghtless of a God,
so

. mm": ELL L95 2):." 5"
 

or :1 Providence, acted like a more brute from the principles of nature, and by the
dictates of common sense only, and. indeed hardly that.

"'hen I was (lclivcmrl and taken up at sea by the Portugal mpmin, well used,
and dealt justly and lmnonmhly with, as well as climitnhly, I had not the least
limnhfulueux in my tlmnghts. When again 1 was shipwrecked, ruined, and in
(longer of (honoring on this island, I was us far fmm remorse, or looking on i1. as n
judgment ---- I only said to myself often, that I was an :ng/ill'ivmltt day, and burn to
he always miserable.

It is: true, when I got on short: first here, and found all my ship's crew
drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a hind of ccstaoy, and some
transports of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might have coma. up to
true tliankl'uluess; but it ended Where. ii. hogan, in a more common flight of joy,
or, as I may su)', bar'ny 31ml l mu alive, without the least Teller-tin>>: upon the
distinguishing r <<MEGS of tho hand which had pi'nscl'i'Cd mo, and had sinylml inn.

out to he PEEJ'IEI'VQLl when all the rest were (icslrnyrd; or an enquiry "'11., Prori-

 

deuce had been rlms merciful to me: even just the smile common sort of joy
which seamen generally have, ufm: they have got safe on shore from u shipwreck,
which they drawn all in the next bowl of punch, and forget alums: as soon as it is
over; and all the. rest. of my life was lilzo it.

Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of my
mmlilion, how I was cast on this ilrcntllhl platen, out at" the ranch ol' human kind,
out of all hope. of relief, or prospect of redemption, as soon as I saw lint a
prospect of living, and that I should not starve. and perish (in: hunger, all the
sense of my ulilictiou were 017, and I hogan to ho. Very easy, applied myseif lo the
works proper for my preservation and supply, and was ihr enough from helm;
ofilictetl at my conditimi, as a judgment: from Heaven, o~ as the hand of God
against me: these were thought: which very seldom entered into my hand.

The growing up of the corn, as is hinxml in my journal, had at first some
little influence upon me, and began to nfi'cm. me with seriousness, as long as l
draught il' had something mimmilons in it; but us soon as ever that part of
thought was removed, all the impression which was raised from it worn off also as
I have noted nlmady.

Even the earthquake, though nothing could he more lm'l'ihle in its nature, or
more immcdinhaljv directing to the invisible Power, whirl) alone (lii'oms such
things; yet no sooner was the fright over, but the impression it had made went
oil also. I hnd no more sense of God or his judgments, much less of the present
ul'flietinn of my circumstances being iron) his hand, than if I hail been in the most
prosperous condition of life.

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely View of the miseries of
death enmeto place itself before me: when my epii'ils begun to sink under the
burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted. with the violence of the
fever, conscience that hurl slept so long, began to awake) and I began to reproach
myself with my past life, in which I hall so cvidantly, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God 1>> lay me under uncommon strokes, and to dual with

mm in so vindictive a manner.
These reflections oppressed me from the second or third day of my dislempcr

and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the dmadful reproaches of my
conscience, extoxted some words from me like praying to Gud, though ] ammo

say they were either a prayer attended will! desires or with hopes: it was rather
the voice of mere fright: and distress: my thonghls were mnfusnrl, the convictions
great upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised
vapours into my head with the mere apprehensions; and in those hurries of my
soul, I knew nol. what my tongue might express: but it. was rather exclamation,
such as, " lmrrll what. a miserable creature am I ! If I should be sick; I shall
certainly die. for want of help, and what will become of me ?" Then the tom's
burst out of my eyes, 'zmd I could say no more for a good while.[Ti-.5 m

In this interval, the good advice of my father came (-n my mind, and presently
his prediction, which I mentioned in the bginhing of dds story, namely, that, if
I did take this foolish grep, God would not bless me, and I wouhl have leisure
lwreafcer to roflmxt upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be none
to assist in my recovery. "Now," said I, aloud, "my dcnr father's words are
some to pass: God's justice has ovm'tuken me, and I have none to help or hearme. 1 rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully Put me in a
posture or station of life, wherein Imight have been happy uml e: ; but I
would Millie): see it 111)>>?ch nor learn to know the blessing of it; from my parents.

 

.1"

1 left: them to mourn over my fully; and WW I am left. to mourn umlm' the
consequence: of ll". I refused their help and amismne'e, who would have lifted
me into the world, and have nnule every thing easy to mo, and now I have
dificulties to struggle with, too great. iln' m'en nature itself in support, and no
assistance, no help, no cvml'orl, no advice," Then I cried our. "Lord, be my
help; for I am in great dist-1':-

Tliis was the first prayer, if" 1 mighl. mil ii: 505 that, I had made for many

   

vs. vs. But I. mini-n to my jouvnal.

JUNE 28,--- Having been somewlmt refreshed with le sleep I haul had, and
thu lit being entirely of, I gm; up : and though the. flight and tm-mr of my dream
was Verg- great, yet I considered that. the fit. of the ngnc would refurn 9;, in the
next (lily, and now Wns my time to get something to refresh and. support I

 

when I should be ill: anal the first thing I did; I fillml a large square ease-bottle
with water,n,n-;l set it upon my table in mach of my bed: and to take off tlze
ohill or anguish dispMilimi of the Water, I put about :1 nuurter of a pint of rum
into it, and mixed them together: then I got- ma :1 piece of the gout'a flesh, and
broiled it on the mals, but could eat very little. I walked zilnrnf> but was very
weak, and withal very Saul and limvyfheareecl, under :1 sense of my miserable
comfifion, dreading the vehn'n 01' my distemper the next day. At. night, 1 'nmde
my supper of three of the hude's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and are, :23
we call it) in the shell; and this was the firs? hit of meat I hail ever asked God's
Messing In, even, as I could remem'nor, In my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so wank llml. I could
hardly Carry the gun (for I never Went out without that); an I went but 1:. little
way, and set clown upon the gwuml, looking out upon the sea, which was just
before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat have, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me:--

W'hnt is the earth nnd sen, of which I-hm'e seen so much? "Thence is it.
produced? And what am I, and all the other creatxu'es, wihl mnl tame, human
mid brutal--whence are we?

Sum we are all made by some secret, Power, who fin-med the earth and Sea,
the nit nncl sky~ and who is. that '1

Then it followed most naturally ;~--it, is God that has made it all. W'cll, but
them--n, came on strungely~if God has made all these thingy, he guides and
governs them all, and all things that concern them; fol: the Being Lhnl, could
make all things, must certainly have power to guide and dimes: them.

mWWZWa/{lfi ' \

\g'! "
ADVENTURES or: mmmscm muse>>;- '

 
 
    

.15" .

,2? V

:x

3

2'1"}:

mm!

aw :cnzwewumasrwm;-. o .- .._., . - .i o - ,_ "
'qumim -mm% 7'

ADVESTUREH 0F ROBINSON CliUSOE.

 

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his works, either without his
knowledge or uppoinimenr.

Ami if nothing happens \vilenL his knowledge, he hnm's lhnt I am here, and
am in a dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without his appoimmcnt, he
has appointed all. this to hel'al me.

Nothing wanted to my tho'ughix to contradict an}; of these conelusionv

 

mid1 therefore, it rested upon me with the greater lbrec, that it must. needs 1m
1.2m: God had appointed ull this to heizd me

 

-- llml: i was brought to this
miserable circumstance 'hy his dir'ecu'rnl, he halving the soie power, not of me
only, hut- of every fixing that happened in the world. Immediately it followed--
"rhy has God done this to ma?- ":hm have I done to he. ).hus used?
My conscience presently checked me in that enquiry, as if I had hlusphemed:
and. inelhought it spoke. to me like a voiucz--" \Vreteh : dost thou 'n'k what thou

hast done? Look bani; ulton n dreadful misspenr life, and. ask 1h" what thou

 

 

has}. not done? Ask why it is that then werl. not long 40 do mycd'? Why

wait thou not. drowned in ','._'armom.h Roads? kiiled in the fight.) when the ship

 

wm taken by the. Ballet: imm-eilwnr'! devoured by the wild has 3 on the coast of
"3' Dust thou,

 

Ali'im? or drowned mama, when sli (he crew perished but thy. .
ask, What have I done I?"

i was sane-k with these reflections, as one astonished, {mil had not a word 10
gnu-no, net to answer to myself; but rose up, pensive and sad, walked hack to
my retreat, mid wcm': up over my wall, as if I had been gwing to bed; hut, my
fyhnllg'nt-s were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep, so I sat down in
my eh

 

1', and lighted my hump, [for it ingnn in be dark. Now, as the appro-
lmmions of 'the returns of my distemper terrified me very much, it nccurm'l In my
thought, "let- the Braziiiunsv take no ph'wir. hul. their tobacco for alum": nil

disl'enipers; and I had a piece of a roll oi em in one of the chests, which was

 

quile cured, and some also that was green, and not. quite cure .

I went, (lireclml hr Heaven, no doubt"; for in this cheat ] found :: euro but].
for soul and body. .l opened the chest-5 and found what I h'miifll for, mnuciy, fl"
tobacco; and as the few beaks I had saved hy' there 100) '1 tool: our mic of the
Bibles, which I mentioned before, and which, to this time.) I hurl 11m: found leisure
or m much :13 inclination, to look into--I say, 1 Look it our, and brought hush
that and the tobacco with me to the table.

\tht use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as m my distemper, or whether
it Wm good for me or no; but I tried several experiments with it, as it .I was
resolved i!' should hit one way or other. I first. tool; :1 plum of u loaf, and chewed
it in my mouth, which, indeed, at first, almost empiiicd my brain; the tuba/Jr"
being green and strong, and I hm! notheen much used :0 it; Union I Look some

131

1' i
"g/4Qe'fiwnefimmwwwzmmmw 'v'
and slccped it. an hour or two in same mm, and resolved to take a dose of ix when
I lay down; and: lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close
aver the smoke of it, as long as I could hear it, as well for the heat 35 the virtue
of it, and I held almost. to snfi'ocation.

In the interval of this operation, 1' Look up the Bible, and began to maul; but
my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear rmding, at least. at. that
time; only, having opened the hook casually, The first words that. necurmd to me
were these :----" Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver; and thou
shalt glorify me."

 

The worth: were. very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did aftm'wan'ls;
for, us for being delivered, the word haul no sound, as I may say, to me. The
thing was so remote, so impossible, in my upprahension of things, that I began to
as the children of Israel clitl, when they were promiScd flesh to eat, " Can

 

Gad spread a table in the wilderness 3" So I hugnn to say, "' 13m God himself
LIVING? me. from this place?" And 115 it mks not for many years that any hope
uppwmd, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. Hm.) however, the wercls
made every great impressiun upon me, and I mused upon them very often. It

92
MWWW'"A&'% ~
grew now late, and the tobacco had, M I said, dazed my head so much, that. I
inclined to sleep, 80 1.th .1 left my lump burning in the cave, last I should want.
any thing in the night, and went to bed. But before i lay down, I did what I
never had done in all my life--l lmeeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that, if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver
me. After my broken and imperfect pmyn' was. over, I drank the rum in which
1 had steeped the tobacco, which was so strong and rank of tilt: tobacco, that
indeed I could scarce get it down. Immediately upon this, I went, I.>> hm], mid
found uresently it flew up into my hand violently; but I fell into a sound sleep,

and naked no move7 till, by the. sun, ilmnust lieceS: 'ily be near three' o'clock in the

   

nllm'nonn the nexl. day; may, to this day, l nm partly of the opinion, that. I slept
all the ncxl. tiny and night, and till almost ihrce lhc dai- ni'im'; li'nry otherwise 1
knmv no! how I should lose a dny out 01' my reckoning, in the days of the week,
as it appeared, some _V 'm's after, 1 had done: for if I had lost it by crossing and

 

recrossing {he Line, I ..l20|ll(l hm'e. 10:1. more than a. day: but in my account il-
was lost, and I never knew which way.

Be that, however, one
way or other; when I
awuked I found myself ex-

ceexlin 'y refreshed, and my

 

spirit>> lively and cheerful.
When 1 gal. zip, I was
stronger than 1 was, [he day
before, and my stomach
better; for l "as hungry;
and, in short, I had no fit
the next day, hm. continued
much nlmrcd for [he better:

this was the 29111.

Tim 30TH was my well
dz)r of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but. did not care to travel mo far: I killed :1 sea-fowl or two,
something like a. brand goose, and bruught' them home, but was not very forward

 

57, fl. , l.n eat them; :30 I ate some more. of the "111165 eggs,
' which were very good. This evening I renewed the

_ .._' medicine, which I had aupposnd did me good the day
~ ' before, namely, the tobacco steepnd in mm; only, I
did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my hand

   
  

q.L"

W5; (owmwwm mr" "rmmgmm} W"
'5' ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON autism-J.

 

orerthe smoke; howcvcn I was not so well the next (lay, which was the fiwt of
July, as I hoped I shoidd have been; for I had a. little spice of the cold lit, but it-
was not much.

JULY 2.--~ 1' renewed the medicine all the three wnys, zmcl dosed myself with
it as at first, and doubled the quantity which 1. (hank.

  

JLLY 3.----I missed the fit for good and all, though
I did not recover my Full strength for sauna weeks

  
 
  

after. 'While I was; thus gathering strength, my
thoughts run exceedingly upon this scripture, "I will
deliver thee :" and the. impossibility of my deliverance
lay much upon my mind, in bur of my. m'cr expecting it: but as I Wm! ilk>>
couraging myself with snoh thoughts; it occurred. to my mind, that I porcil so
much upon my deliverance from the mam affliction, that I disregarded the

deliverance l. hml mach-ed; and l was, as it were, made in 1151: n - such

 

questions as these; namely, Ham 1 not been delimrnd, :uld wondeifnily 100, from

1 sivluwss--fmm the most- ills sing condition that could he, and that was so
{ frightful to me? and what notice had I taken of it? had I (lone my par! "1 God
l
M
[E

 

had deliiered me, but I had not glorified him--that- is to any, I had not ownsrl

and been thankful for that as a deliverance; and how could I expect weutex
dial i veranoe?

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I kneelecl down, and gave
God thank: nlmltl, for my recovery from my sickness.

  
 

JULY 4.~--.ln the morning I took the Bible; and,
g hegiimiug at the New Testament, I began seriously
to read ii, and imyosed upon myself to read a while

 

ll)
the. number of uhnyters, but ax long as my thoughts should engage me. It was
not long after I set seriouzily to' this work, but I found my heart more deeply and
sinccmly affected with the. "'ichedness of my pase lilo. The iixqimsm'nn of my
dream revved; and. the words, "All these things have not brought the?) Ir)
ixipcnlsmm," mu seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly hogging of God to

every morning and every night, not lying my

   
  
  
 

give me. repentance, when it, happened pi'nvidontinlly that very (lzty, that, reading
the Smipturo, .I. came to these words: "He is exalted n Prince and a Saviour, to
give repentance, 3le to give mix-fission." I threw down the hook, and, with my
' '-:l
on: aloud, "Jesus, than Son of David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour,
giro mo repentance !"

heart as well 9.9 my hand lifted up to l-lcm'mif. in :1 kind of Msmcb' of 505-" I "i
This was the first time that I ('m'lld say, in the true sense of the words, that T.
Nil-3W1 in all m). fife ; for T now prayed with a. sense. of my condition, and with 5!,
true Scripture view in linpe, founded on the eneourngement of the won] of God ;
and from this time, I may my, I begmi to have hope that God would hear me.

New I began to construe the words mentioned above) "Cull on mo, and 1 will I
deliver Ihm," in :1. different 5e 53 from what I haul ever Llano before; for then 'I
had no notion 93' any thing being cnlleil (lclivcrmirr-, but my lacing; delivered {mm

 

-, in the place, yet the
islszi Hm. certainly 9. primn to me) and that in the worst muse of the word: but
no": l lcamt to take. it in another sense. Now I looked hack on my past life with

the caplh-ityI win: in, for, though I was imlenzl nl lar

 

such hnn'or, and my sins appeared so dmatlful, that my soul sought nothing of
Gm! but deliyemnm from the lourl of guilt: that bore down all my cmnl'm'r. As for
my solitary his; i9. was nothing; I (lid not so much as pray to he (lulimrcrl l'rmn
il:

_ u
or think ol' it; it was all of no canaulemiium in comparison of illlS', and I add
tlu-: purl, here, to hint to whoever shall read if, that whenever they come to e true-
I

 

i' things, they will find chalk-wanna from sin .1 much grcaic!' blessing than

 

deliverance from ullliciiors.

Pun. lem'iug this pm, I return ('0 my journal.

My condition bcgim now PS01m, though less miserable as in my way of living,
yet much easier (.0 my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by a. comrnnl.
reading the Scripture and pray-i w to God, in things of u higher nature. 1 hm], n '-
gl'ual. deal of comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of ; also, as my health
and strength ,i'elnrnccl, I bestirred myself to furnish myself with even: thing that
I wanted, and make my way 01" living as regular as I could,

I'I

<<e

FROM THE Am on JULY rm mm: 1411:, I "'11;
chiefly employed in walking about with my gun in
my hand a little and a little at a time, as. a mun that

   
   

was gnflaering up his strength after a fit of sickness ;

 

for it. is hardly to be imagined how low I fins, and to

 

what weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use of was perfectly
new, and, perhaps what. had never cured nn ngue before; neither can I incommeml
it in any one to practice by this experiment; and though it; did carry off the in,
yet it rather contributed to weaken me, for I hail li'cqucnt convulsions in my
nerves and limbs for some time.

I learnt from it aim this, in particular, that being abroad in the rainy season
was rho most pernieimi: thing {a my health that could be, especially in those rains
which cnme attended with storms and liui'riennea of wind: for, as the rain which
enme in a dry season was always most accompanied with such storms, so I. fonml"'29.

 

  

eflmSSw~

r;

'Ka v...

 

 

  

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

this min was much more dangcmus than the rain which fell in Sepmmbcr 51nd
October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all possibility of
deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely tnken from me; and I
firmly believed, that no human slmpe ever set foot upon that place. Having now
Secured my hahimtion, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a. gmat desire to
make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see what. other productions I
might find, which yet I knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a
more pnrliculm' survey of the island itself. I went up
the cmek limit, where, as I hinted, I brought my rails
on Shore. 1 found, after I came about two miles up,

 

(hat the title [lid not flow any higher, and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very lush sun] good ; hm. this being
the dry season, there was hardly any water in some wins <<if it, at least not enough
to run into any stream, so as it could he pex'ceived.

 

On the banks of this brook I Found msmy pleasant. snvannas or meadows,
plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and, an the rising parts of them, next
to the higher grounds (where flu: water, as it might. be supposed, never over-
flowed), I ibunrl a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a grant and very
atrong stalk; them went (liven-J other plants, which I had no notion of or
understanding about, and might perhaps ham virtues of their own, which I could
not find out.

I searched for the cassava roof, which the Indians in all that climate make
9:;[TM Jammy ;

their bread nf, but I could find none. I saw large plants 4r Sines, but did not.
then understand them; I saw several sign-calms, but wild, and, {br want of
cllitivation impeifcct. I c011PSemed myself with these discoveries for this Lime7 and
came back musing with myself what 0011130 I might take to know ihc virtue and
goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I shouid discover, but could bring it.
to no conclusion -, for, in short, I haul made so little observniion while 1 was in the
Brit/dis, him: I know little of the phuxts of the field; at least~ verylittlc that. might
ism-c me to any purpose now in my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and after guing something further than l had
done the day before, I found the brook and the
savanna begun in cease, and the country hccmne
more Woody than before. In this part I found different. fruits: and paitinularly I
found melons upon the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees;
(he rincs' had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes wow, now
just in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I
was exceedingly glad of them; but I was warned. by my experience tu eat.
sparingly of them, remembering that when l was whom in Bmhsry, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englialnncn who were slaves there, by throwhig
them into fluxes and fevers; but, I found an excellent use. for these grapes, and
that was to cure or dry'them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or raishis
are knpl, which I thought would ho, as indeed they were, an wholesome and as
agreeable to out, when no grapes might. be had. I

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habitat
by the way, was the, lira-c night, as I. might suy, I. had lain from home. In the
night. l took my limi cunll'iz'nncu, and got. up into a tree, "'11!er J. slept Well, and
the next morning proceeded upon my discovery, unveiling near four miles, as I
might judge by the length of the valley, keeping still due norlh, with a ridge of
hills on the. south and north side. of me.

Al. the and of this march I can>>: to an opening, where the Comttry seemed to
demand to the west; and a, little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the
side of the hill by me, inn the other way, that is, due enst; and the. country
appeared so fresh, so gluon, so flourishing, every thing being in a. constant venture.
(ir flourish of spring, that it. looked like a planted golden. _

I descended at little on that delicious valley, surveying it with 1!. secret kind of
pleasure (though mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all
my own, that I was king and lord of all this country indefensibly, and had a, right
of possession; and, if I could convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as conu-
pletely as any lord of :0. manor in England. I saw hem nhundiuice of cocoa. trees,

 

 

i 3 which,

orange, and lemon, and cinxm Lives; but all wild, and few hearing any fruit: at

least, not. then: however, the green limes that I gathered were: not only pleasant

to em, lint very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.

1 found new I had business enough to gather and carry home; and resolved

98W23"- - '*

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRL'

 

 

 

   
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
     
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  

 

to lay up :0. store, as well of grapes as lime; and lemons, to furnish myself for the
Wet season, which I knew was approaching.

In order l-o do this, I gathered. a, great heap of graves in one place, and a
lesser heap in another place, and n great, parcel of limes and lemons in another
place; and taking a few of each with me, I travelled homewaril, and resolved to
9mm: again' nnd bring a bag or sack, or what 1 could make, to carry the me
home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this jmmmy, I came home (so I
must now call my tent. and my cave); but before I got hither, the grapes were
spoiled; the richness of the fruit. and the weight of the juice having broken them
and bruised them, they were gmd for little or nothing: a>> to the limes, they were
good, but I could bring brie few.

_ _._____. ""--7<< The next (lay, being the ISM}, I went back, having

.

'3 -madc me two small bags to bring me home my

3, harvest. Bu! T was surprised. when, coming to mv

 

heap of grapes. which warn. so rich and fine when I

gathered them, I lound them all spread abroad, 1.1er in pieces,. and d1 Igged about,

some. here, some there, and abundance eaten and dovmnwl. By thin I concluded

there were some wild creatures therwbonts, which hnrl done this; but what they '
were I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up on heaps, and no carrying

them away in a sack, but that one way they would be destroyed, and the other

'ay they would be crushed with their own weight, I took another course; for I

gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung lhom upon the out branches of
the trees, tlwsl' they might. cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes m'lll

lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand unrlm'.

When I came home from this journey, I ('nnu'mplnicrl with great pleasure on

th .'uitlhlness of that \'alley, and the plenmnmnss of the situation, the security
from storm; on that. side of the water, and the. wood; nncl conclude/J, Hm. I haul
'pitchml upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far the. worst part of the
Country. Upon the whole, .1 began to consider of removing; my habitation, and to
look out for a. place, equally safe as where I now was situated, if possible, in "mt

 

pleasant, fruitful purl. of the island.
This thought run long in my head, and I was rxcecdingly fond of it for some
tiinc,_tlie pleasantness of the place tempting me: but when 1 <<1mmK to a nearer
View of it, and to consider-that I was now by the sea-side, \rhm'c it was at. h-nsl

   
 
 
 
 

possible that smnething might. happrm to my unlimitage, and that the. same ill late
tlmL brought me. hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same
place: and though it mm scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen,

99
 

 

yet, to enclose myself among the hills and weak, in the centre of" the island, war
to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an afl'air not only improbable, but
impossible; and that, theml'ore, I ought not by any menus In remove.

However, I was so ennmourad with rhis plum (hm. I spent much of my time
then: for the whole remaining: part of the month of July, and though, upon
second thong its, I resolved, as above, not to remove, yet I built me a Little kind
of a bower, and summuulcd it, at a distance, with :L stmng fence, being a double

 

hedge, a: high as I could reach, well staked, and fillad between with brushwood ;
and here I lay very Secure, sommimcs two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as before; so lhm. I fancied now I had my gummy house,
anal my am Coast--house; and this \iork took me up the beginning of August.

I had but newly-finished my frmcc, and hogan to enjoy my labour, when the
ruins came on, and made. me stick close to my first habitation ; for, though I had
made me a tent like the other, with n piecu of sail, and spread it \im-'y well, yet I
had not the shelter ol a. hill to keep me from storms, nor a <<am-c: behind me to
retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, 1 had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
third of August I 'l'mmd the grapes I haul hung up
were pm'fcctly dried, and, indeed, were. excellent. good
raisins ol' the sun; w I began to take them clown
From the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which followed
 

 

would have spoiled them, and I had lost the best part 01' my winter food -, {m- l
imtl above two hundred large bunches ol' them. No sooner had I when (hem all
1 down, and carried most of them home to my cave, but it began 1.0 min: and from

 

 

thence, which was the: 11th
of Aignst, it i-ainci'l more
or less every day till the
middle. of October, and
sometimes so violently that
I could not stir out of my
cave for scvm'al (l

 

In (his season I was much
surprised with the increase
of my family : I haul been
concerned for thu loss of
one of my cats, who run
away from mo, or, m; I
thought, had been (hand:
and I heard no more 1.110.
or tidings of her, till to my
astonishment, she can>>:
home about. the CHI! of
August with three kilmns.
This was the more strange
to me, because, though I

lmtl killed a wild cui, as I called if, will) my gun, yet I thoughl ix. was quite (1

(lifi'crcnt kind from our Europmn cats; yet the young cats were the same hilul

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

strange; but from
these three cats, I
alierwarcls came to
be. so pcsterccl with
rats, that I was
(bread to kill them
like. vermin, or wild
beasts, and to drive.
them l'rmu my house
as much as possible.
Ilium: run 14.71!

mi

' WWWW 222:2

 

of house breed like the old one; and both my ems. lining females, 1 tho-ight very

or AUGUtST TO 1112 26Tu.----I)\Cessunt min, so that I mnld not stir, and wax now

171W:
 

very careful not to be much Wet. In this confinement I began to he suaitened
for food ; hut vonhu'ing out twice I one day killed a goat; and the last day,
which was the 26th, found a. very large tortoise, which was a trout to me, and
my food was rcgnhn'ecl thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a piece
of goat's flesh, 01' of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortmie,
I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing), and mo or three of the tort-10's eggs
for supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the min, I Worked daily two on
three hours at enlarging my cave; and by degrees worked it on towards one sinh:
till I came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out, which came
beyond my fence, or wall; and so 1 came in and out this iniy, hut I was not
perfectly army at lying so open, for, as I had managed myself brim-c, I was in a
perfect inclostu'e, whereas now I thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, llie biggest creatum- that i had
ever seen upon the island being a goat. -

   
  
   

'l'TI-ZMBER 30.~I was now come to the unhappy mini-
vcrsmy ni' my landing--1 cans; up the notclws on my post, and
found I had been on shore three hundred :unl y-ii're days. I
kept this clay as a solemn fast, _settin,g it apart to a religious
xei'cisc, prustmting myself to the. ground will: the most serious
humiliation, confessing; myself to God, acknowledging his
ightczons judgment upon me, and praying to him to have mercy
upon me, through Jesus Christ: and, having not tasted the leafl-

 

  

refreshnient for twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I then Me
n lniscuit-ealze, and a bunch of grapes, and "~an to had, finishing the dug,- as I
began it.

I lmd all this time ohsci'vcd no Sabbath day, ibr as at first. I, had no snnsc of
religion upon my mind, I had, a'llcr some time, omitted to distinguish tliu weeks,
bymahing a longer notch than ordinai'y for the Sabbath day, and so did not really
know what any of the days WC-I'O; but now having cast. up the days as show, I
found I had been them a year; to I divided it into weeks and set aparl, (wary
seventh day for a Sabbath; though-I found, at the end of my account, I had lost.
a day or two of my reckoning.

A link: ail/er thia my- ink began to fail me, and so I contented myself to use it
move sparingly, and to Write down only the most- l'emm'kable ("ems of my lift,

 

willlont continuing a daily mcmnrandum of other things.

'l'lru rainy snason and the dry sonmn hogan now to appear regular to me, and
I learned to (liVidc them so as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all
{02

m mam-saw 9-,, .

fi--
 

my experience before I had it; and thi5,1 mu going to relate, was one of the must
discouraging experimonts that I node at all. I have mentioned, that. I llml sawed
the few cars of barley and rice which I had so amyrisingly found spring up, :u. I
thought, of themselves, and believe lhere were about thirty stalks of rice, and
zihnut twenty of barley; and now ,I. thought it a proper time to sow it after the
rains, the sun being in its southern punk-ion going from me.

Accordingly, I (lug up a piece of ground, 21$ well as I could, with my woollen
Spade, and, dividing it into two pzm's, I sowed my grain : but as it. was sowing, it

casually occurred to my (.lmnght, that I would not now it all at ill'il.) because I did

nol know when was the proper time for it; SO I sowed about thhirtls of the
sm:ls,lca\-ing "bout. a handful of each.

It Wad a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain of that
I sowed this time czuxie to any thing; for the dry months lhllmving, the earth
having haul no min after the seed was sown, it had no moisture in assist its gmwth,
and never came up at all, till the Wet season hzul come uguin, am'l llK'l'l it grew m:
if it hsxl been "only sown.

Finding my first seed ilid not. grow, which I easily imagined was by the
drought, I sought for a moisten: piece of ground to make another trial in; and I
dug up :1 piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the re <<)6 my need in
Febrmu'y, :7. Jitllln before the vernal equinox; and (his, having the r." V months of
March and April to wnLor it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded. a very gnarl
crop; but. having part. of the seed left only, and not; (luring to sow all 111.2: I had
)'L'l.', I hm'l but, n small qtmntity a: last, my whole amp not amounting to above
half n pool: of each kind.

llul. by this experience I was inside mnsecr of my bushing, and know exactly
when the proper season 'wzis to sow; smrl that I might expect two seed-limes and
1\\'0 Ilfll'VOSIS every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a. little discovery, which was of use to
me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, iuld the weather began to settle,
which was about the month of November, I nmdo'n. visit up the country to my
bower, wimro, though I hm! not been some months, yet I fomxd all things just as
I left them. The circle, or double hedge that. I lmd made, was not only firm and
cm. a, but the stakes which I had cut 011' of some trees that grew thereuhouls
were all shot. om. and grown with long branches, as much as n. willow troo usually
shoots the first your after lapping its head. I could not tell what hm to call if;
that those strikes worn cut from. I was surprised, uml yet very well pleased, to
her the young trees grovr-- and I pruned them and led them up to grow as much
alike as I could--~nml it is scarce credible how beautiful a. figure they grew into
in {lime years! so that, though the hedge made a circle of about Lwcnly--fivc yards

l0-3
in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon (revered it; and
it was n complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.

Thin made me. resolve in) mi. some more stnkaS, and make mo. :2 herlgn like
this in a semicircle round my Willi7 I mean that oi'my first dwelling, which I did ;
and plncingz the trees or stakes in a double row, :11. above eight yards dismnca
from my first fence, lhny grew pinsenily, and were at first u fine cover to my
lmhiiation, and afterwsm'ls served for a defence also, as '[ nlmll uhserre in its
order.

I found now that tho seusonx of the yefu' might generally be divided, not inlu
summer and winter, as in Europe, but info the rainy masons and the dry season>>,
whii'h were genemlly thus :--

ILLu.' Ficmuum', MARCH, HALF Al'llnu--Raiuy, the sun being then on,
or near the equinox.

Ilium APRIL, MAY, Juxn, J nu, "ALF ACGCS'rz--lh'y, the sun being
then It) the north of the Line.

HALF Aueusr, Smurnunm, ILAL'E' 0cmoanu:~Rain, the 51m being then
come back.

HAIJ' Omani-in, Nor-1.1131211, DECEMBER, Jinn-my, Ham: l-'i-zinu'nurz---
Dry, the sun being then to the south oi" (hr; Line.

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the winds happened 1:0
blow; but this was the general observation I made A "or I had [hum], by
experience, the ill consequence of being abnosd in lhe rain, I look mm m furnish
myself with provisions beforehand, that I might. not he ohligerl m go out; and I
sat within doors as much as possible during' the wet. nmnllis.

ln iliis time I found much employment (and very snilnhle also to tho. limo),
For I found great occasion of many things \Ylllx'li 'l hnd no way to furnish myself
with, but. by hard lnhnur and constant application; particularly, I tried many
"-5115 to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
prm-'ed so brittle that they would do nulhing. It. pwved of excellent advantage
to mo. new, that when I was a boy I used to lake great delight in standing at a
basket-maker's in the town where my father lived, to flee them make their wicker-
wm'e; nnd being, as boys usually are, very oilinious {0 help, and it great. observer
of the manner how they worked those things, and smnetiuies lent a. hand, I had
by this means so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I warned nothing but
the materials ; when il. came into my mind, that the twigs of llmt. tree l'mni whence
I cut in; stakes that grew, might possibly he as tough a: the sallows, and willows,
and osiers, in England, and I resolvm'l to try. '

Accordingly, (he next day I went to my country-house, as I callnd it, and,
cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as mnrh as I

  

 

;;
_-._<<,.-->>-. .. ~

."'SW- arriwx'r _.

 

     

_ w raw--<<WW van-rm--
 

w. __. a

mw;.------a.=._-_.. ..._- a".

7'... _._,_..._'__-

r:_ _,e._.._-_ _..._
AM ......-->>2

_<<.. N58

 
 
 
    

muld desire; whm'oupmm I cam>>: the next
time pl'vpm'cd with a hatchet to cut down

:1 quantity. which I won [cum], fur than:

was a grant plenty of them: these I 5%

as

~a.

5.

by to dry within my circle, or hedges,

 

.. -----_,gj'=.
_..____.__.__.__g.'..._

and "hen they were fit for use. I (:m-rimi
them ('0 my <<we, and here, during the (1
next season, I employed myself in making
(as; we" as 1 could) a great many bnskem,
both to carry earth or lo curry or lay up any things, :15 I had occasion; and '12:ADVENTUlCl'Zb' Ulr' RUBJNSUti ("IRS-11E.

____.__._.----

though I' did not. finish them very handsomely, yet I mna'o Lhom sufficiently

 

. tble for my purpose; and thus afterwards I look mm hex-er to he Withoni

 

fit".

them: and as: my wicker-ware dei' ii, I mando- more, CSPI'E'iSllIIY I man-lo strong

 

 

< op bushels: to place my 03m in, instead of sacks, when I 52,01,111 come to have a

quantitv of it.
Having: maetcre'd this dialel'lli'ra and Elliployc-fl -"- WOl'lii (:f limo about ii.) i

 

 

 

u'vsiirrcd mvself- to so . il' OSBllJli' how to su mlv two wants: .i had no vesspls {hm

' . i 1 l I ..

would l 0 i am: tliinv thnt was li! nii'l exec >t two mnlois which were nhnogfi fun
'1 v r. l s ,

of rum, and 5.0an glass baffles, sumo. of the common aize, and oLhors, which were

case-bottles, srirmrc, for tho holding of waters, spirits, lie. I had not so much as :1

put to boil any thing in, uxcnpl. a. great. "Mlle which I saved Vii-t of the ship, nml
which was tor) big for such uses as 1 (105:1ch it for, namely, in malt-r, broth, and

 

 

.J

vx
y"!
'wm- 'emL--i'm

stew a hit. of meat by itself. The second thing I would Iain haw imrl was a
in", I found a con-

 

WWW-tnm--Wmhe;

nm-p'iye, but it was imyoesi'nlc for me in make one; lluwe'.

 

trivancc in>>? Him. too at last.
I emploved izxgsclf in plmu'mg my nomncl'rows ol' stakes: of pi
wicker--work, all the 51UV)lfiQT,01' dry snnsnn, when auctlicr business tool: mn n!)

and in this

 

more time than i: could he in norl I could spare.

I mentioned heRu'o, that I had a great mind to see. the whole island, :12 l thin. I.
had mu'ellod up the brook, and so on, to when) 1 lynili' my horror, and. where l
had an opening quite. in the sea) on the other side of tho. island. I mm- 1130] vorl

to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that. side. 80 taking my gun and hatchet,

 

    

"can.

and. my (log, and. a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual; with two
biscuit-whee, and a. great. bunch of raisins; in my pouch, for my store, I hogan my
joumcy. Vl'hen I had passod the vale when! my bower stood, as above, I came
within View of the sea to tho West; and it being it very clear day, I fair (LCSL'l'lOd
land, whether nn island or continent. J. mnld not tell; but it lay very high,
extending From the west to the west-southwest, at a very grams>> distance; by my
guess ii: could not be loss than filiacn or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the World this u'iighl. be, nthnmisc than that I
knew it must. he part of America, and, as I concluded by all my ohsm'mlinns,
inns: be near iho Spanish (lominions, and yea-hops was all inhabited by savages,
whom, if I should have landed, I had heeu in a worse condition than I wns now :
and flierel'ore l acquiesced in the. dispositions of Providence, which I hognn now
to own, and to linlim'e eveiything ordered for the best--l say, T quieted my mind
with this, and loll. afflicting myself with fmiti ss wishes of being them.

Besides, after some pause upon this nffnir, I considered, that if this land was
the Spanish coast, I should certainly one time or oelmr, see some vessel pnss m-
rnpass one way or other,- lnxt if not, than it was the savage coast. bottom the

w a

e'o'

 

,.

 

@VWE'WFWJWEflW

 

gay;
l;

n
if.
'1

    

,

   

in."
V 4'14.

 

rvs--'.'

kaeyw

l

   

m

i
5

. 4'42:

J .

,..>>....,MW .
~ Fern"?
ca..."-
- . ' Wv:_~.>>\

m-JSMw--fi' .

2""

- 42%?

A'l)\-'l<<'\ 'liRI-TS 0F ROBINSON CRUSUE
Spanish couulry and Brazil, the. inlmbilants of which Wore indeed tho "-0st of
savages; for they are cuuhibuls or men--eaters, and fail not to murder and devour
all the human bodies llml. fall into their hands.
V 'ith 'clr-se cumiclarmions l walked very leisurely l'omvm'd. I. Found i.lr"l'
side of the island where i now "'flfs". much plansmllm' than mim ----l.':m upon ur

' savaiuia fields uul', adm'ml with flowers and grnst, and {'1le of very find wood;

.I saw abundance of ym'ruis, nml fnin would J have caught one, if pmsihlo, In
have kept ii: to be mule7 and fangld. ii, to speak lu) me. I (lid, after some pull
inking, much :1 young parrot; for l km'mhml it down with :1. slick, and having
recovered it, I brought it home, but it was some years lml'ollc I could mahu him
speak. Ham-ever, al: last I taught him to call me by my name very 'l'muilim'lr:
but flio'acuidtml. that followed, though 5!: ha a. trifle, will he very (livcrtix

its place.

I was <<Muellingly diverted with thin jaurm'y: I found in the low grounds,
hares, :15 I thought them in he, and foxes, but. they differud 21x- Lly from all tin:
other kinds I had moi. ulth ; nor could I aatisfy m '->ll' {-0 ml: them, llioug'u T
killed several: but I had no uwl to he 701131301 for J. lssul no \vmu. oi f'cozl,
mul of that which was v good too ;, esyucially those three sorts, nnmclj, oat-i,
pigeons, and turtle, or tor iso7 which, added to in grams, lmadeuhall Ii-l'arigrli
could 110?. have furnished a better table thuu I, proportion to the mummy:
mod though my case was deplorable enough, yxt- I had grunt cnnsc for thank-
l'uluoss', that l' was not driveu to my extremity for food; but, rather plenty, own
to LlulllilCS>>

I 1m- l-rnvcllcd in this jom'nifiy alarm: two miles ouli'iglit in a day, or
the eabouts; but l- tool: no luxury turns; and returns to see wlml, discoveries I rmdd
malu:J that I came walried enough [a the plum wl re I resolved in .' 'mm for
all night-,- zuul then either l'chi-Ed iiQ-'aelf in a limo; nr Sl'lL'L'L'UIKl\'Il 1:
row of Radius Slit uprighl. in the ground, oillim' from one tree to nnoi'lior, or so in:
no wild cwumm could come at me without waking me,

As soon as I canto to film sari-shore, I was surprised to see thal, I had mlmu up

my lot on the worst side of the island ; for hem, indeed, tho shore was POV'u'i'CLl will;

inuuu able lurl. Whamas, on the other side, I haul (band but llu'm in a war
and a hull. Here was also nu infinite number of fuwla ul" many Linr .mu: "1'
~which I 1le not seen berm , did many of Shem very grind meat, lmt such as I
knuw not the names of exc-'pr lzhnsc milled penguins.

I could have <<shot as "may as I pleased, but was very sparing of my pox
and shut; and therefore 11:le more mind to kill a she--glen, if I could, which 1
could better food on; and though more were many goat-5 here, more Ilia." on the
Other side of the island, yo: ll>> was with much more dillit'ult}r that I. could conu-

y,l 31.ADVD'VFClH'a 01' ROBINSON CLiUEUE.

 

 

new: them ---the <<luxury being flat and eve-u, and they bibw me much 50mm dun)
when I was. on the hills.

I confess. this side of the country was much p1
had not the least inclination to remove; for, as I was. fixed. in my habitation,
it became natural in me, and I seemed, all the while I was here, in hp, as it

inter than mine, but yd. l

 

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

@325?

were, upon 11 journey, and from home _: however, I travelled along the shore
of the sen towards the cast, I suppose, about twelve miles ; :uul then, setting

'91:

up n great. polc upon the shun: for a mark, I cunrludcd I would go home
again: and the nest. journey I took should be on the other aide ol' the islnnrl,
ensi from my dwelling, and 30 round, till I came to my post again--~uf which in
its place.

I tool; another way in crime home than that I went, thinking 1 could easily

 

keep all [he ' land so much in my \imv, lel. I' could not miss finding myfirst
dwelling by unwing the <<Jammy--lull. I Found In) self mistaken; for, being come

about two or (hive miles, I. found mymH' d w vmlv-zl nm a very large milk-y, but

 

SO surrounded with hills, and those hill>> CO'LAU] will: woods, that I could not. src
which was in}- way by any direction but that. u!" the. sun, nor even the", unless I
know very well the position of the sun at (ha! limo of the day.

it. happened, to my fui'Lhcr mislin'liuno, Lhai the weather proved hazy for three
or: {our days, while I was in tin: \allcy: and not being able to see the sun, I

 

wandered about very uncomfortably, and as last was ul)
>ide, look for my post, mid come hack the some Wily .l wem' ; and then, by easy
journeys, I turned homewnrd, the weather being exceedingly hot, and my gun,
:unmimition, hatchet, and nilmr things, very heavy.

In this journey my (log surprisi'xl a. young kid, and seized nprvn it; and 1
running in to take lmld of ii., caught ii, and sawed it alive l'l'Om [he dug. I
llllll a great mind to bring it home if I could: for I had alien been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a hum! of

 

(tune goalfi, which might supply me whim my powder and shot should he spent. _

I made a collar for this little creature, and, with a string which I made (um ol' [3'
wine mpgynrn, which I always carried about me, I lcd him along, though with a}
some dilliculig", till I aunt: to my bower, and there I enclosed him and left him,

   
 
  
   
 

for i was very impatient to he at home, from whence I had been absent. above a
month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come inin my old hutch,
and lie. down in my hmumock bed: this little wandering journey, without a
settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that. my own house, as 'I
called it to myself, was a perfect: settlement to me commuted to that; and it-
mndcml every thing about me so comfortable, than: I resolved I would never

W8

Eflzfie?m~degfirmmm -- 7" 1 ' "flag;. '. _m&1:;m3m' ' '- ' {(5% 4:;
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON (IRIZSUE.

 

go a great way from it again, while is; should be my lot to stay on the
iglsmd. _

I reprised myself here a week, to rat and regale myself after my long
journey: during which, unfit (if the time was taken up in the. \yciglny affair up"
making n cage for my poll, who began now to he a mere domestic, and to he
might-y well acquainted with me. 'l'hen _I, began to think 01' the poor kid which
1 had pent up within
my little circle, and re--
solved to go smrl fetch
it home, and give it
some food 3 accordingly
I went, and found it
threI left-if _; for, in-
deed, it coulrl not get
out, but was almost
starved fw.' want of
food. I went and cut>>
bonghs or trees, and
branches ul'such shrubs
as I couhl liml, nnd
threw it ov'er, nnrl hav--
ing fed it, I tied it as
I (lid heli'il ,

away; but it was so

    

0 lead it-

lamc with being hun-
gry, that I had no need
to have tied it, for it followed me like :1 ling; mnl

  
    

 

'15 I continually l'od it, the
he. l'mm that time

 

creature lmmme so lovhig, so gentle, and an (21ml. Lhat it hr;
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me nl'lm'wmxls.

'l'he rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now comz- nnrl I kept tlm 30th
of September in the 55mm solemn manner as before, being the annivenmry 0F my
landing on the island, having now hecn them two ycam, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the inst (lay I came there. I spent the whole day in humble
and thankful acknowledgements of the nnm; wonderful mercies which my solitary
condition was attended with, and without which it might have been infinitely mom
miserable. I gnvu humble and hearty tlmnlrs, that God had been plcnsml to
discover to me even that it was possible I. might he more happy in this solitary
condition than I should have been in :\ liberty of society, and in all the plmsnrcs
of the world--flint he could fully mulie- up to me the deficiencies of my solitaryand the want, of human smioly, by his pro
cc to my soul, supporting, cmiifortiug, and onoouraging mo. to depend upon

     
 
      

is providnmrc here, and hope for his eternal presence hereafter. ,

it was now that 1 began sensibly to feel how much mo. . happy the lil'c l
now lud v- ' with all. 515 miserable circumstances, than 1110 wicked, nursed, nud 1%
abominable Hi: I led all tho pa": part of mydap, and now, having chzuiged hmh ll

      
    

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   

 

my gown"? and my joys, my very desires altered, my nifeclions changed their gust, 1'

l' s were perfectly new from what, they were at my limit coming, or, ,.

  
  

and my do i
indeed, For tl

Before, us I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing; the uu-uuh'y,
(ho anguish of my soul at m -' condition would break out upon me on a ~widen,
and n1 3- very heart. would die wiihin n e to think of Ilic woods, the mount; .

:2 two years past.

 

desi'u'Lb 1 \mg in , and how 1' ma: :1 prisoner, locket! up with the eternal hm.
bolts of the u..ci_\m1, in mi uninhabited wildu'ners, without rodeinptiou. In the

midst of the greatest compueures of my mind this would break out upon me like

5-3:.

wwwn~_.m_ . ._ . _

a dtcrm, and make mo wring my hands, and weep lilia a child. Sometimes it would.
take me in the middle ol' my work, and I would inunodialoly sit down and sigh,
and look 1117-3!) the ground for an hour or two together, and this was still WUDE'J to
me,- fnr if I could buml. nut into tears, or rent myself by words, it would go off ;

and the gr'el', liming exhausted ilscll', would abate

Ilul. now I begin to exercise myself with new thoughts--I daily road l
word of God and applied all the comforts of it to my present state. One umruiug,
lwingr f sad, I opened the Bible upon these. words, "Iwill n-wer li
nm' forsake thee!" immediately it occurred that time, words were to me; u'hv
else should they ho dimmed in suoh n manner, just. at filth moment wliuu I rm,

h r.

 

6 "WE

     

 

      
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

@"Wmfiexe:'nC/m7wrd warm

 

mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God and man? "'Well then,"
raid 1, "if God does not forsake me, of what ill cor
maker: it tlu'nLgh the world should all forsake me: airing, on the orla-r hand, if
1 land all the world, and should lose the favour and blessing of God, lhcrc would

A
u.

qucuce can it he, or \

   

he no comp: nun in the 303s?"

From this amueuf. I began to conclude in my mind, that it was possible for
mo 10 he more happy in tllifl {o 'salmn, solitary condition, than it was probable I
should have ever been in any particular state in the world; and with (his thought
I was going to give thanks to) God for bringirur me- in Ihis place.

I know not. what it was. but something 5 oc'sed my mind at the thought, and.
I dumt not spend: the words. "HOV causl. l'hnu he such an hypocrite," said I,
even audibly, "to pretend to be Llumhfid for :1 condition, which, however, thou
nxaysl' e: 'our to he contentnd with, 'dzuu wnulrlst rather heartily pray to ho
delireml from?" So I stopped there; but 'dxough I could not say I thanked God

   

l1",_:m,g5-.;..m.n_..-n,~._,_'. a mam-.2: ,....,l._.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

' 22:73.2>>,

 

mgr mmmC/wm

ADVEN'IiUJmfi (31" RUBLNhUN GKU'

 
 

 

 

for heing there, yet i sincerel}.r gave thzuil's to Gml l'm' opening my "3"") L}
whatever afflicting )u'oviileuces, to 3i": tho l'ni'uicr condition of my lil'r, mnl In
l t. it, hut.
my very soul viii-11in me blessed Gail for clirmling my fi'icucl in England, without

 

mourn (in my wickmluess, and rnprm. I never opened the Bible, Ox

 

any unlu- of' mine, 1.0 pm}: it among my goods, and far assisting me afterwards ,5
sum it our-01deg the wmck of the ship.
Tnux, and in this flisposxtivn of mind, I began my tlzinl year: mnl though I

 

hen-o. not given the reader 1110 trouhlu ol' so pm'livulzr an account of m\' wo .

 

thi$ year as at. the first, yet in general it may he ohm-weal, t

I was wry

seldom. idle, lmving
employment. that warn before inc--such as, first, )2
tho Sm'ipimms, which I couslemtly sci; apart some time for, thrice own-y

   

 

secondly, the going nlu'cntl with my gun for food, \'rliich generally tool: me up
three hours every morning when it did not. min; thirdly, the unlL'L'lHE'. . '

 

1m wining, and tacking whnl .I had killed m' matched for my 5'1l'l'l y--lhcsc toe-k up
men: yum of the day, also il. is to he consitlm'ecl, that in the mulrllc of the (la

  

when the Sun was in the zcnilh, the violence of the heut nus (on great to .stiroui .
so lhni'. about four hours in the evening was all the time I would he snpposcd to work
in ; with (his CNCA'PiiOD, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and work-
ing, and went to work in the. morning, and ahrozul will: my gun in the. afternoon.

'i'n thi5 short time allowed for labour, I desire may be zuhlml, the exceeding
luhm'iousness of my work, the many hours, which, for want of fools, want of help,

    

.. ,. w:
I was full two-mul-fbrty days making me u honrrl for u long shelf, which I wanted
in my cave, whereas, two 52min" with theii' finals and. saitpit, would have cut:

 

,t of skill, every thing that 'l' dial tool: up out of my (imam- fur example,

 

six oi' Ihnm out of the name Lice in half n clay.

My :use. was ihis: if wax u large tree which was to be. out. down, hl'crmsc my
board was to ho a hvuud 01m. The tree I was three clay! muting clown, and two
more gutting vii the hotighS, and reducing it to a log or piece of timber. With
inexprcssible hacking and liming, 1 reduced bath the sides into chiprs, till it.
began to he light enough (A move; then I luvuctl it, and made one sicle of i6.
smooih mHl flat, us a board, l'mm end to end; thrn turning that Side tlou-mvm-tl,
cut the when side fill I brought the plank to be nhoul. three inches thick, :u'Jl
smooth on both sides. Any one may jn5lgc the. Inhom- of my hzunls. in such a.
piece of work : but labour and patience curried me through mm. and man};- otht-r
flung): : I' only ohsm'm this in particular, to show the reason whv :0 much of my
time went away with so little work, namely, that. what might be :L little to he (lane
with help and tool>>, was a vast labour, and required a prodigious time, to win alone,

and by hand.

 

[3,-

   
 
  

Ii.1;>>-

i

l
lei
2i}
i

--,.,=-----

 

  
 
 

  
 
 

ADV'ENT RES 0 RUBINSDN CRUSUE.

But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour 1 went through many
things, and indeed every thing that my circumstances mmlc necessary for mo. in

do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my cmp of

linrlev and rice. The ground I had manurerl or dug up for them was not great :

 

for, a! I observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck,
for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry Mason; but now my (Top
promised very well, when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing if. all
again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce pos=iblc to keep from it ,
as first, the goals, and wild creatures which I called hares, which, tasting the
sweetness of tho blncle, 1:1,}.r in it night and day, as soon as it cam-111p, and ate
it so close that it could get no time to shoot up into stalks.

This I smv no remedy for, but by making an enclosure about it with a,
hedge, which I did with n gmatdeal of foil ; and the more, because it required
a great deal of speed, the crealures daily spoiling my corn. However, as my
arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced in about
three. weeks' time, and shooting some of the creatures in the daytime, 1 set my"ADVENTURES (w ROBINSON enusom. {2;1 6

WT ___. --_------ p .v'. 1--.

 

 

I

_ -.--.-.v-_--_ -

--'~..--___L_.

i
:3
i

   

1:115 Finn Cum]

   

dog to guard ii. in the night, tying him up ('0 a stake at I110 gate, where he
would atund and bark all night. long; so in n. lmln time the enemies fomok

   

the place, nml the corn gum \('Y'V strong and well, and began to ripen space.
Bu; {:5 Lhn beasts ruined me before, while the mm was in the blade, so the

 
 
   

birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the war; for, going along by
S llDBlNfiUN GRUSOE.

the place 1.0 mm how it :hmvo, I saw my lllllc crop snnmmdux-l alt-l1 fun-l2; of I
know not. how many sorts, which stood, as it were, watching till .I should he game.
3 immediately lat fly among them (for I always haul my gun wlrh me). I lggd no
sooner shut, hu'. than: arose up a litllc. cloud of foals, which I had not. seam at 2211,
~.- from among Um corn itself.

This touched me smm'lbly; j'c'; I. fa: thal, in a law days, they would

  
  

devour all my lzopvs: tlml. I should he 51a; l, and nevea- he able to mbsn :1 amp
- "Iv--and what \'0 do I. could not loll ; however, J resolved 1101. to lose my mm}

'al "111011 it nighl. and day. l'n the first place, 1 went.

 

 

'ihlc, though 1 PS111;

 
 

,1 Found they had syciletl at. gnarl

  
 
  

l to see what. damage was almrrly done, a
deal of it; but that, as it was yet too green for
but. the mmaiudev was like to he a. gnarl crop it

I staid hv it in load my gun, and than coming away, 1 mnld. easily 1400 the

"V

mawl

him, the loss was not F0 gl'eml,

M1151 be saved.

  

MW-

thiwcs si I, upon all the. trees about me, as 3!" (hey only walled till I "as gmzc
away, and thu (event proved it to he so; for, 95 I walked off as if I was {91129,
I "-31; no sooner out of iheir sight, but they (Hopped 1.101111 one by one, int-o the

com :gaiu. I was so provoked lhat I mnld not have patience to slay till more

"MEMW

canto on, knowing that evex'y grain tlml. they are now wa~ :15 it might he said, :1

 

ruin, aml

 

ing to EUR110 hedge, I firm, .

 

prel; loal' :0 1119 in the consequeme; hut, cu
killml three ol' them. This was what. I wislmri for; so I tool: them up, and saved

. in Euglanrl, 31:11:16.3} hmwcd them in chains

    

them as we serve nowrimzs thi

 

for a larva: to others. I: is inmosaible to imagine ahzxosl. amt PS1113: ~:hmlfi; have

a

 

such an. Gill-cl, as it 11ml - for the. fnwls would not only 1101. come at. corn but
J 4- , }

in short thaw {0150in all that )m'l, of the island Kalil. I co-akl. new: 1500 n hh-ll mar
) . l 7

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

imam ~ .<-y_-.;.;'.-.-.4-.\... :1

the. place as long as my scarecrow: 111mg: there.
'i'his I was very glad of you may he 1mm; and about. the latter and of

y.

Dvncmher. which was 0111' auto; 1 harvest of film mar I ran 1nd 11w corn.
1 .- a l ,.

axle to cut it. clown, and all I could do

 

1 was Salill'; pm. to it for .1 scytlm m' n. s

53'}:- "viii:

WM 141 make mm as well as I could, out of um: (If the broadswords, or rat!
which I saved among the M111: out of tho ship. However, as my cmp was but.
small, I hail no great delfic'ulty to cut it down : in short, '1 Napell ll. my way for
I out. nolhing off but the ears, and carried 11. away in a. great basket which I. haul
made, am] 1;.) rubbed it. out with my hands; and, at the and of :1." my harvesting,
I foan that, can. cf my hall purl: of swell I had nearly two hualmls of I'LL-1:, and
above two bushels and a half of h:\1'ley,tl1al.is to 5:13;, by my guess, for I lzzul 1m ;

 

=75.

w MW." #9::qu
' grP--z: :--

..

measure at that time.
However, this was a. grmt. encoumgvment. lo me; and l foresaw that in that:
it weal-:1 please God to supply me with bread: and yet have I was perplexed

 
 
 
 

again, for .l neither knew how to grind not make. meal of my com, nor, indeed,
11-5
 

 

how to clean and part-it; nor, if made into monl, how in make bread of i :
Jdutl in
mg n gmrl quantity for storm, and to secure a constant supply, I

if how to make it, ya? .I knew not how to lmltn it. Thom things heing

 

my desire of h:
ruaolvcd not to (astc. any of this amp, but to prewrvc it all for seed gains: tho.
next season, and, in the mean time, to employ all my study and hours of working
to armmplish this great Work of 1)LU\-'la.il"" myself with corn and bmatl.

it might he {-l'ulv" :K'liil, that I now \a'orkud for my bread. It is it little won-
dnrl'ul, and what I believe few people have thought much upon, namely, the strangv.
xuullllurlc of little things necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing,
making, and finishing; this one {ii-Lick: of hrcnd.

i that was reduced to n more state of nature, found thi5 to be my daily
discouragement, anti was maria more and more sensible of it ovety hour, even
after 1 {mt the lirat handful of sand corn, which, as I have said, canine up unex-
pcnimily, and imlcctl to a surpriic.

First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade or shovel to dig it. W'cll,
this I conquered by making a wooden spade, as I observed before ; but this did
my work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost inc :1, goat many days to
make it, frat, liar wnn'x'. of iron, i: not only wow out the sooner, but made my work
the harder, and made it to he performed much worse.

However, this 1 how with 1m, nncl was content to work ll. onl: with palinnw,
mnl hm~ with the biltllletSS ol' tho. pcvfnmmnm. When the corn was stored I had
In) ltnn'mr, but was forced to go over it myself, zuul Lb'flg :1. grant hem}? hand) at
itch the earth, as it may he Called, rather than mite or

 

a tree over it to
harrow it.
30 observed already how many things. T

 

When it Wu: ginning or grown, i l3

 

wanted, to .i'encn it, gonna rt, mow or map it, cure. or carry it; home, lhrosh, part
it from Lin) chaff, and save it. Then .l. wanlml a. mill to grind il, sierra to dress
it,

, t and salt in make it. into broad, aml an oven in bake it in; and all Ilium
things 1 (liol without, us Shani he observed; and yet the corn was an inostimnhlu

 

comfort and winning". to me too. But all thi as I said, made every thing "3,!
a: no help for: neither was my

1.51m: so much loss to me, hmnnsn, n5: I had Llix-'itlt'fl it, a certain parl- nt it wax:

 

 

laborious :uid tedious in me, but that there \\

   

  
 

_ . i
Ala);- appropriated lo these w nm'l as 1 resolved in use none. ol the corn E

_y by me, I had the next six months to apply

' .ahom' and invention, to furnish myself with utensils proper for

\(i till l haul a. 3;) ate: qua:
myself whnil
1.310 performing all the operations ncccss '\-'

 
   
   
  

El

 

fornialsiug the corn, when 1 hurl it,

 

in" l'ormy
l"nit first I was to prepare more land, for I had now suit-cl enough to sow nho'rc

sm aura of gromid. Before ] (lit! Lhis, I lzad a week's work at lull-st to make me a
115spade, which, when it. was (lone, was a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy,
and required (louhle labour to work with it; however, I went through that, and
sowed my seeds in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house as l enultl
find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a. good hedge, the stakes of
which were all cut off that wood which I had set before, which I knew ""qu

grow ; so Lhnt in one year's time. I know l should have a quick or living hedge,
that would want but lllllc repair. This work was not so lill-le as to take me up

less than three months, because.
great part oi that- l-iiue- was in the

wet season, when I could not go
abroad.

'Within doom, that is, when it
rained and I could no! {,0 am, I
found employmml on the follow.
ing occasions: ales nhse 'ing,
that all the while 1 was at work,

I diverted myself with talking tr.)

my parrot, and teaching him to

speak; and I quickly learnt him

to know his own mum, and at

last to speak it onl. purity loud,

POLL, which was the lirsl. word I

ever heard spoken in the island by

any mouth hut lll)' 0"". 'l'his, lleR'lIUl'L', was nnl. my \H'fl'k; but an assistant to
my work; for now, as I said, I hrul :1 great employment upon my hands, as
follows: numely,I lmul long studied; by some mmns or other, lo make myself
some earthen vessels, \rhieh indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where to Conn;
at them : however, considering lhv heat of (he rlimnle, l (lid not doulzt but, if I
could find out any suitable c p ,. I might hnmh up some such pm. as might, being
dried by the sun, be hard enough and strong one-ugh to hear handling, and to
hold air)r thing that was dry, and required la he kept so; and as this was neces--
sary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to
make some as large as I could, and {it wily 10 stand like jars to hold what should
he put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at. me, to tell how many
awkward wayafil tool: to raise this past/2, what odd, misshapen, Igly things 1
made; how many of them fell in, and how many of them fall out, the clay not-
being stiff enough to hear its own weight; how many cracked by the oven-
violent hent of the sun, being set outtoo hastily; and how many fell to pieces
with only mmoving, as well before as after they were (ll-ind; and, in a word, after
having laboured hard {.0 find the clay, to dig it, tu temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I couhl not make above two large earl-hen ugly things--I cannot call
them jails--in ubuut two months' labour. ll!

However as the sun baked these two very dr}r and hard, I lifted them very El
gently "1), and set. them down again in two gram. wicker baskets, which I haul fill
made on purpose for them, that they might not break; and, as between the poll
and the haskct there was a little room {0 spam, I stnh'ed it full of the rice and

A31- PS33:

my dry 00th and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pols) yet I made
several snmllm' things with better succes such as lirllo. muml pots, flan. dishes,

pitchers, and pipkim', and any lhing my hand turned in ; and the. heal. of the sun

  

barley istmw ; mid these (m) pols being to island always thy, I llmuglu would hold %

baked them istruxugely lmwl.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to gel. an earthen) pot to
hold what- wus liquid, and hem the. fire, which none 01' these could (l0. It

   

lmppcnml alter some time, making a pretty large fin: for cooking my meal, when
I went to put it 0th after I hall <<lane with it, I found a broken piece of one-of
my earthen-ware Vessels in the fire, hum: as hm'Ll as a stone, and mcl a): a tile. I
was @'ccahly surpmu to see it, and said In myself, that certainly they might bc

made to burn whole, if they would hum hmlmu.
This set. me to study how to m'dcrmy fire: so as to make it burn me some
pnls. I had no notion of :1 kiln, such as the pottcrs bum in, u)' of glazing
l l 7ADV'ENL'URES 0E nonuso): CRUSOI'S.

them with Iezul, though I had some lead in do it with; but l placed three, large
luip'ains, anal two or three puts, in a. pile, one upon another, and place-J my fire-
woml all :n'muulit, With :1. great lamp of embers under them; I plied the lire
With fresh l'ncl, wuml the outside, and upon the top, till [saw the pots in the
vctl that they clitl not crack at all: when

 

inside red hot quire through, and ohst.
I saw them chmr rail, I let them stand in that he: t nlmnt flu. or six horn-s, till
I'fo'and one ei' them; though it {lit-l not emck, did melt or run; for the sauel
which wzu mixed with the clay melted by the vlolwcn of the: heat and would
have run into glass, it I had gone on; so ll slacks-J my fire egatluallj', till thr- pots
21:3; them all night that I might not

 

 

hegm to abate el' the real anions; and "1th
let the liic: shat/c too inst, in the morning I had three very good, I will not Sn};
them 11015:, as hard burnt ns could he

 

lnunlrxunc, piglgins, and two other e.
desired, mid one of them perfectly gluz-"(l with the running ol' the sand

After 1 ' that I \\':).F.L'C(l no sort of earthen-ware
for my use; but .l
indifferent, 2u any one may suppose, when I hall no <<ray of making them but us
the children make (lint pies, or as a woman would make pics that; never learnt tu

   

experiment, I [K'Efl not
i, as to the shapes of flxem, they were Very

 

st nerds

   

misc paste.
_ X0 '3}! at a thing: cf so mean 9. nature was equal to mine, when I formal | hail
maul>>: an earthen poi, that. would hear the lire; anil I hiul hardly patience to slay

 

ll" Um"; Were cold, hr-l'ore. I sei- (me upon the fire again with scum water in it). to
'ltlu A piece-of kid, J made

 

hull mo. same meat, which it dill admirably well; find,
some ~. y gnnrl bmth, thmgh I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients
requisite to make it so good as I would have had. it.
i:
to that perfectivn of art with

  

 

  
 

 

My "next concern was to get- mc a stone mart: amp or heat. my cum in;

liu' as (n the mill, thr" - was no thought of a":

 

one pair of hands. 'i'n supply this want-l was at n. great. loss; fer, of all tratles
in the world, .1 was as. patently unqualificrl Eur a stone--cutter, as for any wlwt--
ever; neither hml 1 any tools to go about. it with, I syant. many a day to fin;
nut a great uwzm big enuugli to out hollqw, and make fit for a mortar, aml could
find none at. all: except what was in the solid roclg and which I haul 1:0 way to
dig, or out out; 120): indeed were the rook; in the island of hardness Huflicirms,
hut m1 all of a sandy crumbling stone, which woulrl neither hear the weight of a
hunt ' -' pestle, nor would break the corn without filling it with sand ; so3 alter a grant
deal of time lost in sem'clnug tor a storm, I gave it over, and resolved to look out

8- great block of hard wood, w' ieh I found imlwml much easier ; and. getting one
nlc with

 

    

 

as hig IF. I had strength to 5hr, I \Ymntletl it, and lijl'll'letl it on the o
my axe anti hatchet; and then, with the help nf lire and. infinite lahnnr, made a
hollow place in it as the [whim in Brazil. nwle their canvas. After this I made
Mr:

vwW--Tmumwmmwjmgw's

    

     
  
 

5:7

9

  
  
 

2%? 37':

<<a.I; a%aym--.-----~ m. sawmmmfir'" mgr--4f
ADVENTURES OF ROBLNSUN GRUSOE.

 

a gmnl, heavy pestle, m' heater, of the wood called the hon-Wood, and this I 1mg-
pat'n'rl and laid by agnfnsl; l. had my next crop of com, when I proposed m myself
2:) grind, 01' ratings pound my corn, or mull, to mnka my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or scarce, 1' 0 dm

 

my meal, and pan
it firm) the Lt'nn and the hash, without which I tlirl 1101: SN) i1. pmsible I could
have any lumml. This was annual: (liilicult thing, so much as but to think on:
for to be sun', I had nothing like the necessary things to make it with--I moan
fine thin canvass, or stuff, to tsearce the man! flirough. Ami here .I. was at a full
w what in do . linen I had ncne loll.

 

stop for many months; nor did I wally In

hat was mere m ; I hail goat's hair, hm- neither knew Thaw to weave or Spin

 

it ; an-'l had I known how hem were DI) tools to \V

 

'3; it with. All the remedy
that, I ('mmcl for this was, that: at inst I rliti mmmnh ,r 1 had among the smmcn's
clutlms which were saved 01". of the ship, some neck--cloths, of cniico, m: muslin;

 

and with some pieces of those I math: three small si . '05, but proper enough for

h". shift for some yams. How I (lizl uflcrwanls I shall

 

the work: anti thus l '
shew in in: place.

{Pile baking: Part. was Lim next thing to he mnsiclcreil, and how T shonhl make
bread when 'i come to have. mm; For, Fist, l' had no yeast : as to that part, them
was 3:0 supplying the mini.) so I did not concern myself much about it. But
for an Men I was indeed in great pain. At length I fowl-.1 out an expedient for
that alsu, which was thisz--l made some earthen) vwsels very broad, but not
deep; that is. to say about hm Feet in diameter, and not above nine inches:
deep : these i burnt in the. fire, as I had done the others, and laid them by; and
when I wanted to balm, 1 mnrlc a. great fire upon the hearth, which I had pan-:1
with some square tiles of my own making and burning also--Anti I should not call
them awe.

W'imu the {hammer} was burnt prcuy much into embers, or live coals, J_ draw
them fonvm'tl upon this hearth, so as In cover it all ovar, and thorn I let. tlmm lie

 

till the hearth was very hot; then, sweeping away all the embnrs, .I_ set rlmvn my
luaf or loaves, and, whelming (lawn tho. anthem put upon them, drew the
embers all around the outside of the pol, to keep in, and add to the heat: and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I. linked my barley--lon'tm, and
became in a little time a grand pastrv--Leuk into the bargain; for 'I made myself
several cakes of the rice, and puddings. Indeed, I made no pics, neitherhad I
nnylhing to put. into them, supposing I had, except the flesh, either of {owls or
gems.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took mo. up most. part of the
third year of my abode hem; for it is to he. observed, tlmL in the intervals of those
things I had my new harvest. anrl husbandry to manage 5 for l reaped my corn in
ADVESTURES ()h' RUUIKSUN CRUSOE.

    
 

its scnsun, and carried it home as: well as I could, and laid it. up in the ear, in my

large bukcls, till I had time to rub it out : for I had no floor to thrash it. on, or

instrument to thrmh il, with.
And now, indeed my stock of com increasing, I really wanted to build my

burns bigger: I wanted :1. plnce to lay it up in; for the inrrcnso of my cam
now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and ol'
11m rice as much, or more; insumuch, that 1 now resolved to begin to use it
l'reely, for my bread had been quite gone :1 great while; also I resolved to
see what quantity would he auflicicnt fur me a whole ycnr, and to sow hut once
Il'ylffll'.

Upon lhe whole, 1 found that the fort}; bushels of barley and rice were much
more than I could consume in :1 year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity

 

)

".mw--- .

 

n-
every year that I sowed the hm, in hopes that Mich :1 quantity would fully
provide me with bread, 8:0. 5;?

All the while these things ware doing, you may he sure my thoughls ran '
many timu upon the pmspect of land which I had seen from the other side of the 25
island; and l was nol. without secret wishes thal. I wn; on shore there, fancying liq
that, seeing the mainland and an inhnhit/cd country, I might find some way or fill
other to convey myself Farther, and, perhaps, at ln.=.l: find some means of escape. ii"

Bul. all this while ] made no allowance for the dangers of such .9 condition,
and hovrI might [all into the lmnds of savages, and, perhaps, such as I might.
have reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa--that. ll' 1
mica came into their power, I shnuld run a lmznrd more than a thousand to one
of being killed, and, perhaps ol' being eaten; for I had heard that the people of

k;------- A .6; Ma. " ._.
/( f -
'EJD/(Vlmvmrcnns 0F nomxsox CRUSUE.

 

   

the Caribbean coasts were Cannibals, 01' men-
\ ~ 3136. I know by the latitude that 1 could

 

no! lm far off from that shore--Hm, supposr:
they were not cmmibals, yet they might kill
mt', 3% many Europeans who had fallen int>>
their lmurls hm! been served even when they
have been ten or twenty together; much
more I that 'wss but one, mnl could make
little or no defence. All [nose things, I say,
which I ought, In have considered well of, andADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOF>>

. I rli
first : and my hc-nrlran mightily upon rho thoughts of getting over to that shore.

New I wished for my ho): Xury, <<ml the. long-bom- with l-hc shouldemof.
mutton sail, with which I sailed above u thousand miles on l-hu coast of Africa;

:1 can up in my thoughts afterwards, yet, tool: none of my :q)prehensions m

 

hut this was in min. Then 'I_ thought. "l would gh nnd look on em- Ship's boat
which, as Ilnu'e said, was blown up upon the share a great way in the slurm,
when we were first vast away. She la); almost whom she rlid at {ii-3:; but not

quite, and was turned by the. knee of the waves and {he ninds almost bottom

 

upwards, against the high. ridge of a healthy rout , sand, but no rater about her
as Inform

If 1 [ml lmrl hnmls to line Mimi! her, and ham launched her intu t'nu
Wnter, the ham. would have. done very well, and I might have gone lmcl; into
film Brazil: with her easy enough ; but I might have easily fm'esnnn, that I
could no more turn her, and set her upright upon her bottom, than I conhl
remom the island. However, I wont to tho iw-mtlE and cm. lcvmx: mnl rollers,
and brought them to the heal; resolving to try what I could do: suggesting ('0
myself, that- if T could but turn licrqlown, I might easily repair the damage she
inn-I received, uml she would he a my gcorl lunar, and I might go to son in her
vary a- :ly.

I spared no pains indeed, in this piece of" l'rnitlcss toil, and spent, I think,

   

three or firm weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with my
little stranglh, I fell. to kl
fall down, setting pieces of wuml to thrust nntl gnirlc it. right in the fall.

 

ng away the Emmi t0 undermine it, and so to make it

But when I had (lone this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get- under it.
; so 1 was forced togive it over:

 

. .fl 1,." "

 

much less to more ll. liirwm'tls knvzu'ds the Will:
and vet, tlwugh I game over the hopes of the boat) my desire to venture over-

for the main increased, rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed

My

impossible.
This at length set me uyun thinking whether it was not. possible in make

.9...

- .0")!

":3

myself a canine, 01' perk-gm, such as the natives of those climates make, even
without. tools, or, us I might- say, without hands, namely, of the trunk of a grant
tree. This l not nnly thought possible, but easy ; and pleased myself extremely
'.\'lll1 1hr, thoughts of maki 3: it, and with my having much more convenience for
it than any 0? (ho. nogracs or Indians; but not at all considering the. pnrticnlar
inconveniences which I lflj' nmlcr more than the Tmlinns did, namely, want of
hands to move it into the water when it was made ----a difficulty much hauler fur:

me to surmount. than all the. conscqncnctzs of want of tools could he to (hem : fur

 

what was it to me tlmfr when 1 had chosen a vast than in the woods, [ mivrlat with
great trouble cut it down, if arm-1 might be able with my (Wis to how urnl (lcl.ADVENTURES OF llillllSSUN ('ltlifill'h

the. outside into the proper SSl)tlpe of a hunt, and burn or cut ou( the inside (0 make
it holluw, so as to make a built of it _ il', allel' all this, I must leave it just the-re
where I Found it, and was not able to launch ll, into the. ware -?

One would. have thought, I could not. have had the least. reflection "3:011 my
mind of my cimumstances, while .I was making this host, but I should have
inunediately thought. how I should get it intn the son; but my thoughts "urn so
ininnt upon my voyage over the sea in it71hm'. I never mm: oonsidercd how I
should get it. off the land: and it was really in it: own nature, more may for me
to guide it. over Forty--five miles of sea, than nhoul {DRIV'fil'U fathoms-nf hind, whom
it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went. Ln work upon this boat the most like a fool that. ever man did who had
any 01' his senses awake. I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was able to undertake it ; not but that the dilliculty of launching my
host came often into my head; but I put a'stop ('0 my own enquiries into it by
this foolish answer which I gave myself :-~" Let me

  

make it, I'll warrant I'll
find some way or (filter in get. if. along when it is done.

This was. a most preposterous method 3 but the 0113011192: of my fancy
pl'm-ailed, {liltl to work I Went} and felled a ceilz ' tree--I question much whether
Svloman ever had such a one. for the building of the iemple at. Jerusalem. it.
was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next: the stlunp, and lbul' fvot
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, tiller which it lease-nod For
a while, and than parted into branches. It was not without. infinite lahmir that I
failed this tree: I was twenty days hacking and honing it. at- lhe hutunn; ,l was
501111991) more getting the hi'anrhcs and limbs) and the vast. spreading 112ml of it,

'lh inex-

 

eut all, which I hacked and huwed through with my axe and haichet,
pressihle labour; after thi; it. test me a month to shape it, and dub it to a
proportion, and m something-lilac the bottom-of a. boat, that. it: might swim
Upright as it ought to do. It coat inc near three months more lo cicnr Lhc

in out so as ti>> make an oxncx. limit of it : this i did indeed

 

inside, and my
Without. lire, by mere mallet and Chisel; and by the dint of hard labour, till I had

'rieil six-

 

hrought it to be a very hamlimne peringun, and. big enough to have
undmwuty men, and consequently big enough to have _:m-riul mo and all my
Cargo.

When l had gone tln'migh this wnrlc, I was cxtrenmly delighted with it : 'he

 

 

host was refill}.- much biggm- than T ' saw a canoe ur periagua, that. was int k

 

or one tree, in my Elie; many a Weary stl'olu'. it had Quit, you may be. sure; for

them remained nothing; bus, to get it iiim- Lln': Witter; and had I gotten it. into 'thn

water, I make no queenun but 1. should have 1:631:11 the. maddest voyage, <<ml the

mos: unlikely to' be pel'lul'uied, that ever was :mdcrtakcn.
123

-memSSfl'fl
V. ... ., ,,215413. g>> l ,

ADVEN l'URES 0E ROBINSUS CRUSOE.

 

But all 1'13' device": in get it. into the water failed ma, though they cost infinlbc
labour to>>). It 1. won: one hundred yards from the water and not more; but
' the first inconvenience was, if. was up hill
towards the creek. W'ell, (u take away this
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the

 

k surface of the earth, and so malu; mleclivily :
i this I began, and it cost. me a. prodigious denl
of palms; but. who grudge. pains that have

their deliverance in \'l(t\\";' but, when this

 

was worked tlzruuglx, mul this difficulty

managed, it, wns still. much as one, for I could. no more stir llm (-nnue than I could

that other boat.
Then I umasureul film distance ul' 5 mum, and r

 

nlwd to mu. a clock, or camxl,

   

to bring water up to the canoe, sewing I ot-nltl not hung the can>>: do" n to the

 

water-z mill, 1 Ihngm Klllb work, and when I lwgm to enter into it, and calculatud
110w deep it. was m be dug, how broad, lmw tlw 51111? was to be tlxmwn om, I

found that, by the. number of lmmls I had: bring none but my mm, it must
for

I

   

have been mm or twelve yam-s before I should ham gone through wk]! it;
the shore lay high, so that at tlw upper end it must have been at least twenty
feet deep: so at length, though with great. mluctance, I gave this attempt over
11150.

This grieved mu heartily; and now I sow, though too late, the folly of
beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we judge rightly of 0111'
own strength 10 ga through with it.

In the 111i<l<lle of this \101'l1 I finished my fourth year in this pl' '11, and kept.
my anniversary with the 1:11.11. (im'oilon, and Mm 115 1111111]: comfort, as ever

 

before; lin', by A constant study, and aerious application of the word of Gail, and
by the assistance of his g1'ncc,I gained :1 different knowledge from what I 11:11!
before; I entertained different. notions of things; I looked now upon the world
9.5 :1 thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no exhumation from, 11ml
indeed 11o (les

 

_ \ nhmlt: in n wurd I had nothing; indeed in 1l-1 with it, 1101' 11:15;
ever like to have; EU .I thought it looked as we may perhaps look 11111111 il. lll'l'tj-
nftm', 'nnmclv as :1 place I 11ml lived in, but was come out. 0f it: and well .l might
say :L's Father Abraham to Div. ' ,"Betwecn 1111': and thee them is 11 great. ~gull
fixed.'

In the first place, I was 1'e111131'e1l From all the \1'i1'lte1.l111'=,\< 01' the world here.
,l had 1'1eitl1111'll1c: lust of the flesh, the knit ul' 1111). eye, 1101' the pl'hll' of life. I
had nothing to covet, for ,l lnvl all I was now cupuhh- of enjoying; _: I Wm lord of
the whole manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself king 01' emperor <<nor the
whole- country which .1 11nd possession of; there were 111.1 rivals; I had 1141 cmn~
petitox', none to dispute. sovereignty 01' cmnnnunl with 1111: ; I might have raised
ship-landings of corn, but I had no use for it, so I let :14 little grow :15 l Lhnught
enough ['01- my occasion ; I luv] tun-l

 

"s 01' turtles enough, but. now and then one
"'35 115 much as I conhl put tn any use, I haul tiznhcr enough to have huilt :1. fleet
of ships; I had grapes enough to have lunch). wine, 111' to have cul'ctl into raisins,
to have lonrhxl thnt. llcet when they had been built.

But' all I could make. use of, "115 all that was 1:1l11al1lu- . I luul enough to eat,
and to supply mv \1'sm1t 11nd \1lmt was all the rest to 1111: .' ll 1 killed name flesh
than I couln l em, the (log must cut. it or the vermin , it ,I sowed more 1"11111 than
1 could ant, it must. 1111 spoile1l.'l'l1e tit-cs that I cut (lawn 11-11111 hing to 1'0t 0"
the 01"an [ could 1"ch no more use at them than for fuel--31ml that I haul no
occasion for but 11.1 vlress. 1111' feud-

111 a word the n.1t1uv1111tl e\p1'1i1~11u, of things rlictatul to 1111', 1114.111 just.
reflection, that all the. gnod things oi thi: world are 211.1 anther good to 11>> than :11
film 1111) for 0111' use; nntl that, whatever \ve 111w heap up to 9,111: to othms 111).
enjov only as 111111 h 115 we. can 115c.n1nl no more. The most cm'etous wiping
mism' in the world would have been Lurezl of the vice nf 1)metou.~11< W, if he had
been in my cnse; for I POSSESSGLl infinitely more than]: knew what to do with. I
had no room for desire, except i!- was of things which I had not, and the;' were
but trifles, though indeed of grain, use to me. I had, as I hinted before, It parcel
01' money, as well gold as silver, about- tinny-six pounds sterline: elasl there
the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of business for it; mill I

often thought with myself, flint I would have given a handful of it'fin' a gross of
tobacco-pipes, or for a handmill to grind my cum _: nay, I would have given il all
for sixpenny-wm-th of turnip or carrot seed out of England, or fo' :\ hnndful of
peas and beans, and a bottle of ink : as. it was, I had not (he lensl, sitivnnlnge by
it, or benefit from it; hut. there it lziy in :1. drawer, and grew nmuldy with the
(lump of the cure, in the wet season: nnd if i had had the drawer full of
diamonds, it hml been the same case, and they had been of no mnnne' of value to
me, because of no use. _

I had now brought- my state of life to be much ensier in itself than it. was. at
first, and much easier to mind. as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to
my meat with tlmnhfulness, and admired the hand of God's providence, which

' had thus spread my table in the wildernesa I learnt to look more upon the bright
side <<if my condition, and less upon the dark side, mid to consider \rhnt .I. enjoyed
rather than what I Wanted--and this gave me. sometimes such secret comlhrls,
that I cannot express them--and which I take notice of here, to put their
discontented people in mind of it, who cannot. enjoy mmformhly What God hail)
given them, because they see and covet something that he has not given them: all
our discontents about what we ivmzt, appeared to me to spring from the want of
tlmnkl'nlncss for what. we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and, doubtles: would he so to any
one that should [all into such distress as mine was; and this was, to compare my
present condition with what I at first expected it should he - nay, will) what it
would certainly have been if the. gnarl Providence oi' Curl had not. wenderi'nll'ir
ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore, where I not only willd came at
her, but could bring what I got: nut. 01" her to the shore for my relief and cmnl'oi'i;
withmit which I had wanted tools VJ work, weapons for defence, or gunpmvder
and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may an}; whole days, in represrniing to myself)
in the most lively Colours, how I must. limo. acted, if I had get nothing; out
of the ship; lww I could not have so much as go: nny inod, except lish and
turtles; and that, as it was long before I found any of then), I must have
perished first-<<that I should have lived, ii" I had. not perished, like A mere
savage--that if I had killed a goal. or a fowl hy any couuivuncq, 11ml no
Way in [lay or open them, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels,
or to cut it up; hut muil gnnw it with my tccih, (uni pull it with m);- claws lilw
n heasl.

Those reflections mmle me very sensible of rho. goodness ol' l'rm'iilcnm (0 mo,
and rr-rv thankful I'm: my prawn}. condition, with all ifs hardships and inisllu-hums;
and this part alsr>> T cannot but recommend m- the mfiectiuu uf those who are. .'El-l',
in their misery, to say, "Is any affliction like mine?" Lei. ihmn consider lww
numh worse the cases of smnc panple are, and what. their (we might have been:
if l'rnvilience had thought fit.

I had :mm' 21- reflection, which nsfiisim'l me also to conifer-l my miml nml
hopes; and this was, comparing my present: mmlilion with whut I had (loser-rod,
mnl hnd therefore reason to ex1396l7from the. hand of Providence. '1 had ll\'('(l
a dreadful life; perfectly destitute of the knowledge and frui- uf Gad. l haul heen
well instructed by father and nmlhcr; neither had they been wanting to me in
their early endem-mns to infuse a religious awe of Gull into my miml, a senzc of
my duty, of what the nature and end of my being required of me. But, alas!
Failing mrlyinto the sea-faring life, which, of all lin- is the: mast. (lcsliluie of
the fear of Gm], though his terrors am always heforc themmI . y, filling early
intn the son-faring life, und into seafaring company, nll'llut liiile sense of
reli'r? :1 which 1 hurl mum-mined was laughed out of me lay my mossmates--hy a
hnrduned (lespising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew lmhimnl to
me ~13): lll)' long absence from all manner ol' opportunitivs lo conrm'se with any
thing but what was lilac. in}: f, or to hear any thing (if what was good, or tended
towards it.

So min! was l of crery thing (hat was goal, Or of the least sense of what I
was, or was to ho, that in the greatest Llulivornncc Ixmijoyctl, such as my escape
from {Si-lieu, my being taken up by the Portuguese master of the ship, my huing
planted so well in Brazil, my receiving 1hc cnrgu from England, and the like, I
never once had the words "Th'anh'Gofil" SO much u! on lllylilitltl,1):' in my
mouth; nor, in the greatest; distress, had I so much thought as to pray to him,
nnr as much asto say, "Lord have mercy upon mei"----no, not to mention the
name of God, unless it. was to swear by and hinsphcmc it.

I haul terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as I have already
observed, on the nccouut of my wicked and hardened life past ; and when I
looked about me, and considered what. pm'limllar pu'n-idenccs had attended me,
since my coming into this place, and how God hnrl dealt hountifully with me--
hml not only punished me less t-linn my iniquity deserved, hull hm! so pleritil'ully

prorinleii for me; this gave me great hopes that-my repentance was a1cccylcd,:md

that Goal had yet marries in store for me.
'Wiih these reflections I worked in); mind up, not. only to resignation to the
ADVEN'I'L'RES 01" R0le ON Citliis'OE.

will of Gail in the present disposition of my circmnsmnces, but even in a sincere
{.hnnkfuhmrxfi of my condition; and 1th. 1', who was yen a living man, ought
not. to complain, seeing that I had not the due puniehment of my sins--that I
enjoyed an many metrics, which I hail no reason to have expected in that. place
- that I ought never more in minute at my condition: but in rejoice, and to give
daily Ivhnnhs for that. (lazily brand, which nothing but a cloud of wondets could
have brought --- that I ought to consider 1 had been fed even by a. miraolo, even
as great as tlml. of feeding Elijnh by ravens ~nay, by a long series of" miracles ;
and that I coulul hnve hardly named 11 place in the uninhabited part of tho world,
where I could have been cast mom to my ndx-{iniflgc--a place where, as I

had no society, which ws: my afiiiction on the one hand, $0 I found no ravenous

beams, no furious wolves or tigers, to :ln'enten my life ; no venonwus creatures or
poisonous, which i might have karl on to my hurl; nn savages to murder>> and
devout me.

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life. of mercy
another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be. able to
make my =en.=c of God's goodness to me, and cam over me in this condition, he

1'25my daily consolation; and after I made n just improvement; of these things, 1
went away, and was no more sad.

I had mm been hem so long, that many things which I brought. on shore for
m 3' help were either quite gone or very much wasted, and near spout.

 

which I eked out. with water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scmm ken,

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

My ink, us I observed, had been gone (in: some time, all hm. a very little, 1

any appear; ce of black upon the paper: as! long as it lasted, I made use of if

 

' . _- to minufe down :he (lays of the month an ,-

me; and first, by casting up times past, I
remember that them was a strange con-
mn'mncc of days, in the various providence;
which heful me, and which, if 1 had boon

   
   
   
     
   

superstitiously inclined to observe days as
fatal or fortunate, I might. have had reason to have looked upon with a grant
deal of curiosity.ATURES ()l' ROBXASON CRUEULE

 

 

 

First, I had observed, that the same (lay that I broke away {him my father
11an my friends, and run away to Hull, in order to go to mm, the same (lay after
2h wards .l was taken by the Sailleo mnn-of-war, and made a slnvc.
.g/ The same 1 any of the year their l: escaped out of rho. wreck of the ship in
'3 Yunnmuh Roads, that; same day of the year afterwards ,I. mark: my escape from
'1' Salilec in the lxxit.

The same day of the year I was born on, namely the 20th of Scpteinbeu", the
smug day I hall 1n " ' so mimmilously swell twenty-six years after, when I was
'1: cast. on shore in (his island; so that my wicked lifey zmrl solimry lire, hath began

 

i

in, on (a tiny.

ill The next thing Lo my iuls's being wasted, was firm of my lnmrl, l mum the
;\ _ _ . . .

biscuit which 1 brought out of the ship. This I had lamb-.lnclecl ('0 the lust

.,-

; and yet.

 

degree; allowing myscll bui mic cake I)? hmucl 3-day, far above a \--e -

 

out bread for a your helium I got an}; corn of my own , and gmal.

it l'" ::

 

I was quiec mi
reason I hail to be thankful this I hml any at all, the getting it being,
'vezl, new. to miraculous.

 

 

been already obs
My ('lmhc-s, too, hcgsm to decay mightily: as to linen, I, had mm 51 gaml

 

 

o, except some checquomrl shirts which I iouml in the cheats cf the 0:.th
12y preserved, because many times I could hcsr no
other clothes on hue :1. sh" ': and it was a very great help to me that I had,
among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three down of shirts. 'l'hm; were

 

 

 

seamen, and which I care

Mm
wvubmvm Ibmjefit.

 

2.50 semml :hicl; watch-coats of the seamen, which were lei'e hehind, but they
were too hot 10 Wear; and though it is mm. that the: Weather was so violently hot
I that there. was no need of clothas, yet I could no: go quite naked--1m, though I.
haul hem inclined to it, which I was nob--nor could. I abide the thought M if;

r.

w'l'im" '- "a

"a.- 1':

amp:

though lines all alone.

. One reason why I could not go quilt: naked was, I could not hear (he hem. of
ll 1.1m sun so we]! when quite naked, as will] some clothes on--nay, the very hen:
'; frequently blislmmlmyshin: where", with a, shin on, tho air itself made some

ll motion, and, whistling under the shin, was 'Iwoi'old cooler than without it; no

   
 
 
 
 
 
  

more could I over bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without an csp or
a hat; the heat of the Sim heating with such violence as it does in that place,
would give me the hcml-nche presently, by (lm'ting so directly on my head, without
a. cap or hat on, so iimf. I could not brznr it; whereas, if I put on my lzmt,i1'
would presently go tawny.

Upon these views 1 hogan to consider about putting the few rags 1 had, which
I called. clothes, into somo. order; I had worn out all the waistcoazs I had, and
my business was new in try if I could not make jackets out of tho gi'cal. watch-
com's which I had by mo, and with such other materials as' I had--so I set In

180 A
. -..work a--tailoriug, or rather, indeed, a-botching-- for I made most pitcons wark of
it. However, I made shift to make two or three waistcoals, which I hoped would
serve Inc a great while: us far Meet-hes or tlmwcm,'1 made but very sorry shit":
indeed till afterwards.

I hnvc mentioned that I saved the skins uf ull the creatums that I killed - I
mean four-footed ones---- and I had hung (hem up Err-etched out with sticks in the
sun; by which means some of them were 50 dry and hard that. they were lit for
little; but others, it. seems, warn very nscz'ul. The first thing I made of these
was a grant. cup for my head, with the hair on the outside to shoot off the ruin ;
and this I performed so well, that after this I made. a suit of clothes wholly of
these skins--~ that is to say, a waistcoat and breaches open at the knees, mid hmh
loose; for they were rather wanted to keep me cw], than to keep me warm. I
must not omit to gckuwvledgtt, that they were wretchedly made; for il l Wu: :1
bud-carpenter, I was :L worse tailor; however, they were such as J made :1 very
good shift with g and when I was n'nrrmd, if" it happened to min, the hair of the
waistcoat and Mn being vulmost, I was kept. very dry.

After this, [spent a deal of Lime and pains to make me an umbrella: I was
indeed, in gmal. want of one, and had a great mind to make one: 1. had seen them
made in the Emails, where they are very useful in the great heats which are

 

them; and I l (in: heats every jot as grant here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox ; bnsltlus, as I was vbligud to be much nhrcnd, it was a most useful
thing to me, as wall for the rains as the heats. I Look :1 world of pains at it; and
was a. great while before I could make. any thing likely in hold; my, after I
_ thought I liud hit the. way, .I spoiled two or three before I made. 011:: to my mind ;
but at last 1 made mic that answered indifl'clmuly well. The main difficulty I
found was to mnkz'. it. 1.0 let down: I could make. if. in spmsxi; but if it did not let
down tun, and lew in, it would not be portable For me any way, but just over my
head, which would nor do. However, at lust, as I said, I made one to nnswo': 1
covered itwith skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the min like a penthouse,
and kept of? ihe sun so efectuully, that. I could Walk out in thu huttest <<if lhc
weather, with greater advantage than I could licfore in the coolest-5 and, when I
laixd no need of it, I could close. it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mightily comformhle, my mind being entirely compused by
resigning to the will of God, und :hmwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
Pruvidenuu: this.1mulc my life butt/er than socinhlc; for, when I began to regret
the want of cunversntion, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing nmtuully
with. my own thought;, mud, :13 I lwpa I may say, with evm my Maker, by
ejaculations and petitions, was not better than the utmost cnjoyxmmt of human
society in the world 5!I cannot. say, that, after this, for {five years, {my oxiraordinm'y thing happened
1.0 me; but I lived on in ille same course, in the same [mature and place, just. as
before. The chief thing 1 was employed in, besides my yearly planting my
barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just
enough in have a. sufficient stock of the year's provisions beforehand--I say,

bet-ides this yearly labour, and my daily inhom- ol" going out. with my gun, 1 had
one labour to make me a canoe, which at Last I llnishcd: so that by digging a
canal to it, six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it, into the (meek almost
half a mile. As for the first, that. was so vastly hig, as T allude-it, without
mnsidering heforelumd, as I ought to do, 1143\le should be able (0 launch it; so,
never being able to bring it in the water, or bring the waler to it, I was obliged
to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me 10 hr: wiser next time.
'lndcml, the next. time, though I could not get. :1 tree proper for it, and "as; in a
place whom I Could not get the water to it, at any less distmme than, us 1 have
Said, of near hull :1. mile; yet, as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and, "rough I was near two yours about it, yet I never grudgcd my labour,
in hopes of having a, host- to go off to sea at last.

Il.o\\'cver, though my lilih': periuguzt was finished, yet {he size of it was not at
all answerable to the design which 1' had in View when I made the fimtr--I mean
of renturiug over to the term Iii-mu, whnrn it "'16 above forty mile>>; broad;
accordingly, the smallness of the ham: assisted lo put. an end to that deeigu, and
now I thought. no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next. design was to make
a tour round the island: for as I had been on the other aide, in one place, crossing
as I have already (hrsrrihcd ii, (wet the land, so the discoveries I made in that
journey made me very eager to see the other parts of the coast; and now I had a
hunt, I thought of nolhing hut. sailing round the. island.

For this purpose, and dial. I might do every thing with discretion and
consideration, I fitted up a little most. to my boat, and made a sail to it out ol' some
of the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store, and of which I had a greal.
store by me.

Having fitted my mnsl- and sail, and tried the hunt, I found she would sail
very well. Then 1 male little lockers and boxes at each end of my boat, to put.
provisions, necessaries, :uid ammunition, &c. into, to be kept dry, either from
min, or the rpmy of the sea; 'smd a little long hollow place I out. in the inside
of the boat, where I could laymy gun, making n {hip to hang down over it to
keep it dry.

I: fixed my umbrella also in a atop at the atom, like u must, to etand over my
liead,z\1xdkecptlie heat of the sun of me, like nn awning; and thus I every
now and then took a little voyage upon the son, but neverwonc far out, nor farfrom the little crook; but at last being eager to view the circumference of my
little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I victiuilled my ship for
the voyage ---putting in two dozen of my loaves (cake: 1 shonlrl rather call them)
ol' barley-bread, n'n can'tlien pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal of),
a little bottle of mm, half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two
large watch-coals, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the
seamen'a cheats: these I took, one. to lie upon, and the other to cover mo in the
night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my mign, or my captivity.-
n'hich you please, that I set out on th'm voyage, and 1' found it much longer than
i expected; for, though the Island itself was not very large, yet when I came 1-0
the east side. of it, [ Found a gmat ledge of rocks lie out about two leagut's into the
sea, some above water, some under it; and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying (ll-y
hull :\ league mm =; so that I was obliged to go a great- n'ny out to sea to double
that point.

When I first discovered them, I was going to give over my enterprise: ""1
come back ngnin, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and,
above all, doubting how I should get hack again; so I came to un anchor, for]

had maxle me a kind of an anchor with at piece of broken grappling which 1 gm
out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun, mid went on shore, climbing up a
hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and
i'eeolved to venture. I5:5 (IF hummus Ciirml'lm.

 

the sea Man that hill where I 310ml. I perceived a strong, mud

in my viewing - 1 'I
re chm: 0 .nc

ed :1. most furious current, which ran to the cast, and nrcn c
I saw there might. ix: some

 

hide
point; and I tuak tlw mam malice of it} beta
danger, that when I came into it, I might. be can
it, and not be able :0 make the island again. And indeed, had I not; golfer} first

  
 

.ed out in sea b1,- llm slmngth 01

upon this hill? I believe it would have been so; for their was. the rumu current on
.e of the island, onlv {hr-l. it set off at a further (listanco;_nn(l'1 saw

W ..
Wudvu-hg'. ~

 

t-lze other
there was a strong; eddy under the share--:0 I had nothing to (lo but to get out

' lie in an eddy.

<<a>>
"Q"

 

of the first cxu'mnl7 mid I should presm
I lav here, however, two days; because. the wind Mowing phelly fresh (at. cast-

 

      

W
32*

muffin-east, and lhnt being just; contrary to the said current), made- a great branch
; so that it 1-: s not safe for me. to keep too clam tn the

"fit

 

of the sea upon ihc pair.

"(-

shore l'or l-lm breach, nor to go 'mn fm' off because of the stream.
The third (lay in the nmi'ning, the wind hm 1;; abated

  

  

1' night, the sea

again to all rash and

 

was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning-
iguuraut pilots; fur no saunter was I come in the point, when l. was not my
bwt's length from the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and
:u:urrex=.t like the sluice. of A mill. It carried :12}- lwzlt :Ilvug with il. will) such
a \inlcnca, ihal, all I could do could not keep her 50 mut'h as on the cd ul' it:

 

but I found it. hurried me farther and farther out l'rum Um eddy, \rlziL 1 "1'15 on
the left liar.

    

l. There was no wind stl lg to help me, :UKl 'all that I could Ll!)

 

fished-w *=&'=m'a~1-_.m"1:

 
 

   

N .u.-r,-,.~uy_:x:;:<<. -'-:a W=fiflC/u4

 

   

"M--MMA--w ._.._....~..D

In} puddles nifierl nutlziixg; and now I began f0 fllVC m ' n

. .. -. 5

r " the cu: 21-: was on both sides r-f' the iilzzud, I knew in a for: 191 l'
a '15th"! Ellfi'i' must join again, and than I was irrecm-'erably gone--"01' (lid I $7
a '4
.

 

see any 1'") ' 'ty 0f nraitling it; so llml. 1 had no pmspnci lief-J": me but Oi'

-. HMW-

Ir>>.

 

 

hing~uot l); the sea, lhr llml; was an ill enough. lml. nl' starving for hunger

 
  

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 

'Tr-fi
.g

 

intleorl, 12mm] a tortoise rm um shore, as b .~"-'_ nlmr; .: I muld lil' 1;. and had
the boat; and I had a

of my earthen pols, hul- whzn. was all rhi: tc lining driven into the vast ocean,

. .(l it int.

 

"5" jar nl' Fresh walcr, that is to say, one

 
 

unfit".

whom. to he sure; there was no slim" no mainland or island, for a thousand

 

        
  
   
  

leagues at least. iii.4
_ And now I sa v.' lum- aasy it \m: [hr the pro? ieliite (if 'C'lnd '0 "1511'" the "m": if
miserable condition that mankind could be in worse. Now 'l lnnlmtl hack on my 5"
desolate. solitary island as the most plcatsmt plflc: in the world, and all the ll;
happiness my heart could wish forwas (0 hi: there attain: I stretched out my '3

hands to it w .

 

_ \-

 

'eagm' Wis .u- )h. lm

 
 
 

n; desert!
.l, " \vlzitl
i'Epl'uucthl zm'self with my nntlianh'ul temper, and how I had I'GPIUL'LI at my
solitary condition; and now what, would I give to be on share there ugain'? Tluis
[3!

my: <<err--am- "WAW m,
I

(I I, "I shall new 0': set:

 

)

thee more! Oh, miscmhle creature l" mu 'i'licr. ]

 

am I axing?
we mm See the true 5mm of our condition, till in is illustrated to us 13:; its
contm-ies; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is
/" scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was in, being driven from my
7? beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to he) into the wirle ocean, ahnost
, two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever recevexing it again; however, I
i worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as
a mnch to the northward, that is, [onuu'ds the side of the current which the eddy
lay on, as possibly ] could: when nheut noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little hrewe nf wind in my face, springing up from the south--
soutlreust This Cheernil my heart a little, and especially when, in about half an
hour more, it blew a pretty small gentler gale. By this time I was gotten at a.
frightful distance from the island; and, had the lens"; cloud or hazy weather
intervened, 1 land been undone another way too; far I had no compass on bowl,
and. should ueV r have known how to have steered inwards the island, if I hnd but
once lost sight. of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up
my mast again, and. spread my sail, standing away to the north as much as
possible, to get out of the current.
Just as I had 5ch my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch away, 1
'ent was near 5

 

saw, even by the clenrncsr. of the water, same alteration. of the on
for where rho ('nrrent was S"! strong, the water was foul: hut: perceiving the water
clear, I found the current abate, and presently I funnel, to the east, at about half
a m' '.-, n. breach of the sen. upon {some rocks: these rocks I found caused the

  

tun Ii. [0 pm. again ; and as the. main stmss of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the racks to the north-east so the other returned by the repulse of the
rock, and made a strong eddy, which 2:1 n hack again to the north-west with a very
sharp strewn.

They whn know what; it is ta have a. reprieve bmught to them upon the
lsxlder, or to be rescued l'mm thieves just going to murder them, or who hnvc been
in such like extremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my host into the stream of this eddy ; and the wind also freshening,
how gladly l spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind, will! a.
strong tide 0r eddy under foot.

This eddy earned me about a league in my way back again directly towards
the island, but shout two leagues more towards the lwrtllWa'tlYl than the current
lay, which carried me away at first: so that when 'I came nem' tho island, I fomid
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the other of the islsmd,
opposite. to that which I went out from.

\thn l lmd made sonmLhing more than a league of way, by the help If this
current or eddy, I found it was'spent, and served me no farther. However, I

 

 

' 135 '1
yfifi'yzgr-<<fic 3*?mwwamflrwfim WW-fixsegg'. ~ A2>> 2W
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 031125011).

 

  
 
 

funnd, that. between the two great. currents, namely, that on the south side which
hnzl hurried mo nway, and that. on the north, which lay nlmut two leagues on the
other side--I sny, between those two, in the west of the island, I found the water
at. least still, and running no way; and having still a breeze ol' wiml l'nir fm' me,
I kept on steering dimclly fur the island, though not making such fresh way as l
(lid. before.

AhonL fmn- o'clock in the evening, being than within about u league of the
islnnd, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this distance stretching
out, as is described before, to the suutluvm'd, and, casting oil the eurrem. more
soulllwnrclly, had of mime mmle another eddy to the. north: aml this I found
very strong, but not. ilinectly setting the-way nay murse lay, which was due west,
but almost full north. However, having :t fresh gale, I stretched across this c-(lrly,
slanting north-west, and,
in nhout an hour, came.
within nhont a mile of
the shone, where, it being
smooth water, I soon got
to land.

When I was on shore,
I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for Imy
deliverance,- mmlving to
lay aside all thoughts of
my deliverance by my
boat ; <<ml, refreshing
myself with such things
as I had, I brought. my
boat close to the shore,
in a little cove that 1 had
espierl under some trees,

 

and laid me down to
sleep, being quite spent
with the labour and fa-
tigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat; I had run so
much hazard, and know too much the cause, to think of attempting it by the way
I went out; and what might he at the other side (I mean the west side), I know
not nor had I any mind to run any more ventures; so I only resulverl in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore, and to see. if there. was no
a?WLr;_r.zffi./.V

;

1

f
I
g
|
I;
'.

creel: whom 1 might. 1113- up my J'rignh: in

o as to the her :Ignin if I "shied her.

 

In about three miles or thercnlmurg, coasting-

about a mile over, which nun-owrd till it came
('0 a very little rirulet, or bl'nok, where I
found a mnvcnienl. harbour for my boat, :md

where shn lay as if she 12341 been in a little (luck made on purpose for her; here
'I' put in and having <<towed my hnat very safe, I went on shore to look about mo,

and 'sec where I "'35.
I soon found I had but a little passed 111' the plum where, I had been before

 

When 1 travelled on fool: to t mt .'lmre; so, in .11; nothing (111.1 ol' 111.1- heut but. my
111111 and 1m? umbrella, for it was: nxccediuglv Let, I began my march. The. way
was cunnurmble cum: ~l' nf'rm' such :1 1'03-"13. .1: I had been upon, and 1 reached
my 0.11 bower in thee 131m when: I found every thing standing 11s I left if;

for I nlwnvs kept it in good order, 1min", usl Imid hefom, 111\' count" house.

     

 

1 gm: aver tl1\.fi>11c(., and laid 1m: (101121 in the shade. to lost my limbs for I
was vm-x- weary, and loll asleep; but judge if you can, you that lend 111115th
"11.11; st'uprisc I 11111512111: i1 nhon" . "as mialtanncl out of my sleep l)\ :1 101m
calling me l1}; my name severni times, " lmhin Robin, Robin CMFC'L', pnm.'
Robin Cruson, Where. are. you, Robin Caustic? W'hmwe are you? Where have
3011 hut-11. 7-"

I \ms 20 dead nsieeli at first, being finiguml "iih mwiug or paddling, as. it is
called, the. first part of the day, 1.1111 walking the latter 11.11 t, llmt I (lid 1101. Make
thoroughly; nnd dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that.
somebody spoke to me,l1ut as the voice continued in 1'"peat, " 3012711 (ix'usm'.
Robin Crusoe." :11!th 1 he mm to m1 .1he mom pc1fccth',1u1d "as (it first dread-
fully flighl'od, and started up 111 llu'. utmost wnstm 111111011 , hut no soonei were my
eyes open, but I saw my Poll siiiiny on the top of 1.110 lit-1i fig), and immediaklv
know that this was he that spoke tu me; For just in such hemuauiug language I
had used to talk to him, 11nd teach him: and he lmtl lmrncd it so perfectiy, 111511
he would sit upon my finger, and. 1:111 his hill close. to my face, mid cry, " P001-
Rohin Crusoe, where 9111 you" Where hm'c you Men? How cam-2 you here?"
and. such things as I 11.111 taught hi. n.

Umvm'ei', even though I knew 11 was the parrot, and that indeed it could he
nobody else, if was a. good while hefore I could comma. myself. First, I was
amazed how the creature got hither, and then how-ho should just keep 111mm. the
plane, and no where else: but as I was well satisfied it could he nobody but honest
Poll, I got i: over; and, holding out my hand, and calling him lay his name,
" Poll 1'" ilte $or'inhl1'. ('1'!1'11'111'15 can": in) me, and 5m. upon my thuml), as ho. used to
do, and continued talking to me w--"I'uur Robin Crusoe l" nnzl "Now (lid T come
here?" mu "Where had I been?" just us if he had been overjoyed to see 1110
again; and so I carried him home along with me. -

1 had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough to
do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger I had been in. 1 would
have. been very glad to have haul my hunt again on my side. uf the islnnd, but. i
knew no: how it. was nineticnble to get. it about, as to the east side of the island,

' 133
 

which I had gone round, I knew u'cli enough there V3.3 nu venturing that way;
I my very heart would shrink, and my very hloml run chill, but to think of it>>: and
land, I did not know how it might he there; hut.
hat the slinre at the east, us it.

 

 

:13 t0 the other sinlo. of lhe l:
suppos: g the Current run with the same force a
passed by it on the other, I might run the sumo. risk of being driven dawn the
siren"), and e- 'riecl hy the island, SIS I had been before of being carried away
from it. So with these thoughts I contented myself tu be without my hoat, though
it. had been the product of so many munths' labour to make it, and of .~:o many

 

 

more to grt it in In ilw sea.

In this gwcxnment of my temper I remained near a. year--lived a very
aedult' retired lite, as you may \vellsuppose; and my thnnglus being very much
L'muposerl as to my cunditiun, and i'nlly' nomfartecl in resigning myself to lhn
dispositions vl' l'mvidence, i thought 1. lived really very happily in all things:
except that of society.

I. impaired myself in this time in all the, mechanic exercises which my "('2
cessities put me upon applying myself to: and I believe could, upon occasion,
hnre math? :1 Very guutl carpenter, capcciully cotmitlering hmr few tools J. had.

Beside this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-ware, and
contriretl well enough to make them with a wheel, w ieh I fuuud infinilcly easier
and better, because I made things round and shapeahlc, which before were filthy
things indeed to lonl: on. But 1 think I never was so vain ol'nu' own perfornnmce,
malnorc joyful for any thing I Found out, than for my being able to make .1

 

tohuecmpipe; anal thong it was a very ugly clumsy thing when it was (lone, and

only hurnt red like. olher earthen-wam, yo: it: was hard and firm, and would draw

 

lite smoke, l "as ex :ndinglly comforted with it --- You I haul been always used to

Jul there were pipes in the ship, but, I forget them at first, not knowing

 

snmlte.

  

there nus tohnccu in the island ; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again,
1 couhl not come nr 11113 pipe: at all.

In in}: \viclierare I also improved much, and made abundance. of necessary
baskets, a; well us my invention showed me, though not very handsome, yet
convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching things home. in. For
example, if I killed a gent and, l couhl hang it up in a tree, Hay it, and dress
3'; and cut it in pieces, mid bring .=.t home in n basket, and the like by a turtle;

 

I Coultl out it up, (ahe uut the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, "llli'l'l was
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind
me. Also large (loop baskets were my rcccii'errs for: my corn, which I always
i'uhhcd nut '45 soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets instead
)f a grunary.

z ive my powder abated considerably; :nnd this was a

 

I began new to per... _. "--1

 
  
 

'4 35 .....-'-.-"---- . my: aim

ADVENTL' ES 01" RUBLVSUS (TRIIEOE

  

"Wu, whieh it ivus impossihlc for me to supply, and .I began seriously to consular

 
 

win: 1 mm: do when I should have n.) mom powder" dhnt is to 5.13". how I
. . ..

  
  

klioulcl do to kill nm' goats, I had, as I observed, in tin.- flfird Fm 0f my

   
  

being here, kept a young kid, and lJl'Cll her tune: I was in hopes of getting a
ho'kid, but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an oltl
goat; and 1 could never fiml in my heart to kill her, till she died at lnsl. (d

IDL'I'Q ngc.

 
     
 

But being now in tha elm-cm]: year of my residence, and, as I have. said, my

    

 

ammunilion growing" low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare the
gnaes, to see whether I. would not. catch some of them alivn . and, pau-liculm'ly, I.
wished to possess a she-goal. great will: young,

 
   
   
     
 

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

To this purpose I mmle some snares lo Immpm- them, and believe they were
morn than once tnlucu in them ; but my tucklr w

as not good, Tm? _l lle nu Wire,
and always found them broke", and m}: 1,

ail (levonrcd.
At length I resolved 10 my a pitfall; $9 I dug SeHfl'Hl ln

J'gu pits in the earth,
in places where I lmnl obsr'rved flu: gnnls used to feed

, and over these pits I
placer! hurdles, as" my mvn making too, with u great weight upon them; nnrl
several times I put mm of barley, nml dry rice, without setting the (rap; and
I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in,
I could see the marks of their feet: at length

1-10

and eaten up the corn, for
I set three traps in one night,y, mo

SON CRUSO E.

 

and, going the next manning, I found them sll standing, and yet the bait enlv."
and gone. This was very discouraging; howeverfl altered my trap; and, nut
to trouble you with ps'n'zicnlm's7 going one morning to see my Imps, I found in
one of them a. large old lle-goill>>; and in we of lhe other: three kids, a male and
two females.

As to the old 0119, I knew not. what. to (lo with him ; he was so fierce, l_ (him.
not {:0 him the. pi], m him--that. is to say, to bring him away alive, which was
what I wanted. 1 <<mid have. killed him, hm that was not my hush As nor would
it answer my end _: so 1 even let him out, and he run away as. if he haul been

frightened (qu Ui' his wits; hut .l (lid "of then know what I afterwnrds learned,
tlnit hunger would tame a lion: if I hull let him stay them three or ll'ul' '-l".\'5
Without food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then a "tile
corn, he would have been as (sum as. one of the kids; fur they are might}; sngucious
and tractable creatures, Wham they are well used.

Hume-r, for the present 1 let him gm, knowing no better at that time: than
I went to the. three liitls: and, taking them one by one, I tied {hem with strings
together, and with considerable difficulty hmught them all home.

It was a good while before they would feud; but thmwiug them some sweet
corn, it. tempted them, and they began to be tame: and now I found that if I

with goat's flash, when I had no powder or shot left,

expected to supply myself
= my only way, when, perhaps, I might; have them about

breeding up some tame ""1
my house like :1 [lock 01' sheep.

But, then it presently occmred to me, that; I must keep the tame from the
wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew up ; and the (ml)r way
for this was to haze Sumo enclosed piece of ground, Well fenced, either with hedge
or pale, to keep them in so effectually, that. those within might not. break out, or
those without break in.

"his was .1. great undertaking for one pair of hands; yet: as I saw there was an
ahsolute necessityfor doing it, my flint piece of work "as to find out a prey?!'
pim'c of ground, namely, where there was likely to he herbage fm' them to mt,
water for [hunt to drink, and cover to lump Ilium from the. sun.

Those who understand Silt-l1 cuclusures, will think I had very little contrivance,
when l, pitched upnn a plum: very proper for all these (bring a plain open pirco
of meadow-lmnl, or snvnnnn, as our people call, it in the western colonies), which
had (we or three little drills of fresh water in it; nml at, one and was very woody
----I say, they will smile at my for at. when J. coll them I began by enclosing of
this piece of ground in such a manner, that. my hedge or pale. must have been at
least two miles about: nor "as the madness of it so great as to the compass ; for
if it was ten miles almul, _l was iikn to have time cnough to do it in, but. I did
not consider that my oats would he as wild in so much (zompnsg as if they lznd
had the whole islan: and i should him: so much room to chase them in, that. I
should never with them.

My hedge was lingrdl and mrricd on, I believe, about fifty yards, when this
thought ot'r'nt'rud to me ; 5:>> I presently stepped short, and for the liist beginning
l. resolved to cm'laso :: pierc of about. one hundred and filly wards in length, and
a hundmd yards in breadth, which, as it would maintain as many ns 1 should have
in any rutsunahlc time, so, as my flock incrczucd, I could add more ground to my
enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I want, to work with courago.
was about three months hedging h: the first piece; and till I had (loin. it, I
Lothcrm'l the three kids in the host, part of it, and used them to feed as near me as
posslhle, to make them familiar; and vet}? often T Would 3n and carry than some
can: of ha: 'y, or a handful of rice, and feed (item out of my hand; so that. alter
my cue-insure was finished, and I let; them loose, they \vuuld follow me up and
down, bloating after me tbr a handful of corn.

This answered my end, and in about a your nnd a hall3 1 had a flock of
about twelve gunk, kids and all; and in two ycnrs mom I had tln'oc--aud--fort-y,
besides several that. I tuck and killed for my food; anal after that. T enclosed five
several Pieces of ground to fee-J. them, wiah little pens to fll'l'fc them into, ti) take
them as 1 r-'nnlcd them, and guises out. of one Plnl'f'. of ground into another.

But this me not all ; for now I not only had got goat's flesh lo feed on when
I plensocl, hut milk, too, {L thing which indeed in my beginning I (lid not no much
as i-lii n1: of, and which, when it came into my thonglns, was really an agreeable
surpuse; fur 110W 1 Sn up my dairy, mnl llfl'l seiziezimes a gallon or two of milk
in a (lay. And as nature, who gives supplies of food to every creatiue, dictates
even naturally how to m Ike use of it, so I, that now:- milked a. con, much less a

mat or saw buli'cr or (eh " e maule \'L'I'V wm'lilv mnl lmnclix ' thou h after a i
{T , I ., v Q g

, mun}: - .35 and mismn'mgus, made me. hath butter and. thee , nt- lnsc, and never

wanted it nfl-cm'anls.

How mercifully mu our great Ci'enlor treat. his creatures, even in those
conditions in which they comm-l to ho ox-cz'wlirrlnu-il in destruction! How can he
sweeten the him iiprourlemes, and giro ns cause to praise him for (limgcons
and prisons! "'hni. n table was here spa ad fin- mo in n wilderness, where I saw
nothing; at first. but of: perish iin' hunger!

li. wm'lhl have made A'. stoic Emile, lo hm'c scen mo. me'i my little family sit.
down to dinner : llmro was my )najesly, the prince and lord of the whole
island; I had the lives of all my sulijeem at absuluto. command ; I could hang,
(lmw, give life. and liberty, and {like it away, mul no rebels among all in.)-
subjects.

Then to see how lilm n king 1 (lined too, all alone, ultemletl by my servants,
Pull, us if he had been my i'm'onriLe, was the only person permitted to talk to me;
my (log, which was now grown very old and crazy, and fonml no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right lzaml', mnl mo cuts, (me on one
side the table, nml one on five other, expecting; now and then u hi1: from my hand,
as :1 mark of special favour.

But these ware not. the two cafe which I brought on shore nt first; fur they
were l.\0l.h of then) dead, mid had been interval near my habitation lay my own
huml; bul. one of them having multiplied by I know nut what. lilnfl or" era-alum,
those were two which :I' preserved tame, whereas the rest rnn wild into the woods,
and became, indeed, troublesome in me at last; for they would often come inw my
house, and plunder me, too, till of, his: I was obliged to shoot them, nnd did kill a.
great many: at length-(hey left me. W'ith this attundauw, and in this plentiful
mmmm', I lived: neither could I be snid to want anything but society, 21ml of
that, in some time after this, I was like to have 100 much.

1 was something impatient, as I had observed, to have the use of my boat,
though loalh to run any more huzzml; and therefore sometimes I sat conniving
ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat. myself down contentml
nnough without hrri But I haul a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to
the point of the island, where, as I have said in my last ramble, I went. up the
hill to see lmw Hm short: lny, and how the current set, that I might see what I_
had to do. This inclination increased upon me every day, and al. length l
rpsnlrcd to travel thither by land, and, following the edge of the shore I tlirl so;
1.": lmd {my one in England her-n to meet such a man as I was, it must either
hm'o fi'ighlmmd him, my caused a great deal of laughter; and (151 frequently stood
slill to loch at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my travelling through
anhFhirc with such nn equipnge and in such n dress. 1'50 pleased to lake a
sketch of my figure as follows . ---

I lmrl :1 great high shupeherfi mp, made of {Imit'i skin, with n flap hanging down
heliind, :15: well 1>> keep 1hr sun from nu.- ns 1.0 slmnx' the rain oil" from running
inm my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates, 11:5 the ruin upon the
flesh under the clothes.

I hail a short jacket 01" gonl.'s skin, the shirts taming down to nhnnl the middle
of my flfiglm; and a pair of npon-kncc'd hmochcs of film same: the breaches
were made of the skin of an old lie--gfizit, wlmsc hair hung down such a length
on either side, that, like pnntnloon's, it reached to the middle of my kegs.
Slnohings and shoes 1' had none; but I lmil made me a pair of smnmhing. I
scarce,- hnmv what to call them, like huskins, to flap over my lime, and lute on
either sinh'; like spattcrdushes, bill: (If :1 most liarhiu'an: shnpu, as indeed were all
the rust of my clothes.

I had on A broad hell. of goat's skin dried, which I drew logx-tllmr with two
thongs of the same, instead nf buckles; and in n himl 01' a frog un either side of
this, instead of" a. word and dagger, hung a little saw and a. hatchet --onn on one
side, one on the other. I had another belt not so brand, and>> fastened in the same
manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the. end of it under my left. arm,
hung lwo pouches, hoth nmda of goat's skin too, in one of which hung my powder,
in the other my shot: at my bank 1 carried my basket. on my shoulder my gun,
and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all,
was the mmt necessary thing I had about me, next in my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was really not so niulattwlike :6. one might expect from a. man
not at ull rnrcf'ul of it. and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My
heard I had once suffmwl to grow till it was about. u qunrlm' of a yard long: but
as 1 had both scissors and rnzms snflicinnl, I had cut it pretty short, except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into :1 large pair ul' Mahometun
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks whom I saw at Saline; for lhc
Moon! did not. wear such, though the Turks did: of these mustnchiogg or whiskers,[IL]: FoaL'nka

I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them; but they were
of length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in England would have passed
for frightful.

But all this is by the bye: for as to my figure, I had so few to observe, dmt it
was of no mannm' of mmcqnmlco--so '[ say no more to that part. In this kindW>> - .'_' f

1,5:

,...,.

V aim-24

"or

'2>>

m".

. Wane-1.x>> <<palm

'wm .2235"

.m_ ~--. .

9'!'~
%

y.

mi

.22.

figs?"

.r.

I:}

 
   
 

CRUSOE.

ADVEN'I'CRES 01' ROBINSON

of figure 1 went my new journey and was out line. or six (lays. I travelled first
along the sen-shore directly to the place where I first hmngh: my 1,0": to an
anchor, to get upon the rocks; and, having no boat. now to take care of, I went
over the land a nemr way, to the same. height that I was upon before; when,
looking forward ln'fhe point of the rock which lay ant, and which I was to double
with my boat, as I said. above, I was surprised to set: the sea all smooth and quiet;
no rippling, no motion, no curren 1:, any more than in other places.

I was at a strange loss to midemtaml this, and mmlvozl to spend some rimo in
the observing or" it, to see if nothing from the sets of the fitle hail occasioned it;
but I was presently convinced how if. mu; namely, that the title of ebb setting
from the west, and joining from the current of water's from some great river on
the shore, must; be the occasion of this can-rent, and that according as the wind
blewanorc forcible from the west, or from the north. this current uamo near, or
went farther from the shore; for, waking therenbonts till evening, '1 went up to
tho rock again, and then, the title of ebb being made, I nlainly saw the <<armor,
again as before,-only that it you further off, being near hall' a league l'mm the
shore; whereas, in mytmze, it set. close upon the shore, and hurried me and. my
canoe along with it, which at another time it wmild not have done.

This observation convinced mo, that I had. nothing to do but to observe the
ebbing and the flowing of the title, and ] might very easily bring :ny boat about
the islantl again: but when J: began to think of putting it into practice, I had
such a terror "yon my spirits at tho remembrance of the danger: .I had. been in,
that I could not think of it again with any patience; but, on the contrary, I took
up another resolution, which was more safe, though more laborious; and this was,
that I would build, or rather make, me another periagua, or canoe ; and so have
one for one side of the island, and one for the other.

You are to understand, that now I hail, as I may call it, two plantations in the
island; one, my little fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the rock,
with the cave behind me, which by this time I haul enlarged into several apart-
ments or caves, one within another. One of those, which was the rlriost and
largest, and had a. <<lonr out beyond my wall or fortification--that is to .. ', beyond
when: my wall joined to the rock--was all filled up with large eaithen pots, of
which l have given an account, 11ml with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which
would hold five or nix bushels each, where I lairl up my xtores of provision,
especially my corn, some in the ear cut all short from the straw, and the other
rubbed out with my hands.

As for my wall, made as before with long stakes or piles, those piles grew all
like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there

ms not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation behind them.here, whenever I had occasion to be. absent from my chief sent, I Look up my

 
 

<<nu.

ma -='e|>'\'~'e'

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON C'RL'SOE.

 

   
   
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
  

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little hither within the land, and upon
lower gmund, lay my two pieces of cum ground, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly {filed me their harvest in its season: and
whenever I had occasion for more corn? ). had inure land adjoining, as fit

as that.

 

Besides this, I had my country seat, and l lmd now a 'l'okrable plant'at'lon
them also: for first I had my little. bower, as I cnllcrl it, which I kept in repair---
that, is to say, I kept the hetlge which circled. it in, constantly fitted up to its usual
height, the ladder smndmg always in the inside; I kept

 

trees. which at liml:
were no mom than Makes, but were now grown very firm and tall-I kept them
nlways so cut, that they might spread, and grow thick and wild, and make the
more agreeable shade, which they did cfi'cctnnllv to 'my mind. In the middle of
this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of sail spread own- pnles ant, up
for that purpose, and which never wanted any repair ur renewing; and under
this I had made me a squall, or couch, with the thing of the cmatnros I had
killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to
our acarbedding, which I had snvcd, and a great watch--coat to cover m9, and

mnnlry habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures lbr my cattle, that is to say, my grants;
and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this
ground, I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest. the goats should break through,
that I never loll off, till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of the lmlgc
so full of small Makes, and so near to one annular, that it was rather a pale than
a. hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through hctween them, which
afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made
the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed, stronger than any wall.

This will fostily for me that I was not, idle, and that I spared no pain: to bring
to pass wizatcvc' appeared necessary for my comfortable suppurt: for I considered
the keeping up a breed of fame creatures thus at my hand, would in: a living
magazine of flosh, milk, butter, and chewe- for me, as long as I lived in the place,
if it-were to he forty years: and that keeping them in my reach depended cutimly
upon my pcrf'orling .uiy enclosures to such a degree, that I might be sure of
keeping them Wgcther; which by this method, indeed, I so effectually secured,
Lhat when those little stakes began 92:) grow, I had planted them so very thick I
was forced to pull some of them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes ginning, which I prhrcipally depended on
for my winter stores of raisins: and which I never failed to preserve very
(awfully, as the lat-st and most flgrcenhle dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed,
they were not agreeable only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing,
to the last deg-me.

As this was also about half way between my other habitation and the place
where I had laid up my hon!7 Igenerslly stnid and lay here in my way thither:
for I used frequently Ln \' ' my boat, and I. kept all things about or belonginer of
her in very good order. Sometimes I went out. in her to divert myself , but no
more hazardous voyages would I go, nor smrcc over above it stone's can: or um
from the shore, I was so apprehensive of lacing hurried out of my knowlmlgn
again by the currents, or winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a new

 

scene of my life.

It hnppcncd one (in)! about "00", going towards my boat, I, was exceedingly
surprised with the print of (L man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain
to be seen in Um sand: I. stood like our; thumlyrstmck, or as if I had seen an
apparition : I listened, I looked around me ---I could hear nothing, no:- see
anything: I \mnl. up no a rising ground to look further; I went up the shore
and down the share, but ll. was all one, I could nee no other impression but that
one; I wan to ii again to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might
not be my fancy; lint there was no room for than!7 for there was exactly the print
of a fool, toes, heel, and every part of a foot; how it came thither I knew not,
nor could in the least imagine. But, other innumerable fluttering thoughts like a.
man perfectly confined, and out of myself, I came home in my fortification, not
feeling as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree, looking
behind me at awry two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and
fancying every stump at u nlhtnncc to he n man; nor is it possible to describe
how many various shape>> an ufi'righbed imagination represented things to me in--
how many wild ideas were formed. fiery moment in my I'nucy~and what strange
unaceoruitable Whimsios came into my thougth by the way.

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever after this, I fled"

into it like one piuisuecl ; whether I went over by the ladder, at first contrived, or
went in at the hole in the rock, which I mile/l :1 door, I cannot remember; for
never frightcd hum fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I
to this retreat.

I had no sleep that night: the farther I was from the occasion (-I' my fright,
51deg gl'eflim' my uppmhensions were; which is something contmry to the nature of
such things, and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I
was so cnlharmasL'd with my mm frightful ideas of" the thing, that I formed
not-hing but dismal imaginations I!) myself, even thmigh I was now a grim way
off it, Sometimes I fancied it must. be the devil ; and reason joined in with me
upon this suppontion. For how should any mher thing in human shape come

148
into the place? "mere was the vessel that brought them '1 What marks were
there of any other footsteps? And how was iL possible n man should come there;
But then to think that Satan ghoul/l lake human shape upon him in such a place,
where lllel'e could be no manner 01' occasion for it. but lo leave the print of his
foot heliind him, and llmL even for no purpose loo (for he could not. he sure I
should see it), this was an snmzement the other way: I, consiclmm'l that the devil
might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified inc, than this or
the single print of a. foot; that as I lived quite on the other sitln of the island, he
would ncvcx have been so simple as to leave n mark in a place where it was ten

 

thousand to arm whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which
the first surge of the sea upon a high wind would have defaced entirely. All this
seemed inconsistent "iii! the thing itself; and with all nations we usually entertain
of the subtlety of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted Lo argue me out of all appre-
lxensions of its being the devil; and I presently concluded that it must, be some
more dangerous creature--namely, that it must be some of the savages of the
mainland over against me, who had wandered out. to sea in their canoes, and
either driven by the currents, on by contrary winds, had made the island, and had
149
been on shore, but were gone away again to m, lining M lam-h, verbal to have

staid in this desolate island, as I would have been :0 have hndmheni.

   

While these. reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very thankful in
my thought, lhm'; 1. wins so happy as not to be thermhmxts a: that time, or that

    
 

they (lid nol, my boat, by which they would have concluded, that some

'cn in the PinCS: and perhaps have searched inn-her for me.

a:

inlnibitants llfu'
Than terrible Lhongliis racked my imagination, about their lamina i'numl my
boat, and that there were people here; and that if so, I should cat-Ininlg harm
them come again in grmtczr unmbcrs, and devour me; that. if it- should haypen

-so thaw they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure, destiny all

 

rm: corn cur: awn nil mvilock of tame sits and I should :urish at 2 l; [or
. 1 J' 3' .. g" ; i

 

1110-"?- want.

Thus my fear banished all mymligions hnpc; all that former confidence in
Gmi, w 't:}1 ms. fonnrlerl upon such wonderful experience: as 1 had hail of his
gooflnnsg now vanished: as if He that had fed me lwy minicle hiiliprro, <<:uuhl
not preserve byhis power the provision he 11ml mam>>. in: mo by bin guniuws.
I mpronched myscif with my lasincss, that I wonlci nol. saw My mom corn am),

an]. muhl infer--

 

year than would just sen-o, me till the next season, as if to acci
vane (o prewnt my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground. And llIiE l
thought so just a repronf, that I resolved for the fumro In 1mm fwo or three
yaal'x' corn hefomlzam'l, so thnt, whatever might come,'I might. not perish fox
want of bread.

How strange a, cheqnemvork of Providence is the life. of msmi and by whaf
scene). differing spring}: am the affections hurried nbont, 'ss. differing circwnstzmces
present! Today we low, what (O-nzon'ow we hatc--fn--rlny we me}: what to-
morrow we shun--today we desire what to-mon'mv we fear, my, even tremble
utflm apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me at: ibis time in the must
lively manner imaginable; for 1, whose only affliction was, that I seemed banished
from human socieqr, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cm.
011' from mankind, and condemned in what I called a silent life; that I was is one
whom Heaven i'hought not worthy to be numbered among: the living, aria appear
among the rest of his creatures : that to have seen one of my on species would
have seemed to me a mining me from death to life, and the greatest blessing that
Heaven iiaelf', next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow--I any,
that I should now tmmhlo at. the very appmlzcnsions of swing a mun, and was.
ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow, or silent appearance, of a man's
having set his font on the-island.

Such i: the uneven slate of human life; and it nfl'onied me 9, great many

[Eu
, . m _mvmqu .,

   

3.61.2.1." .

. ism-7.7.35
wanna-WA;

W--flm

n>>

'1W-:Im::'ddwm7anr=3providence of God 11nd determined for me: that as 1 could not fiu'osoe what the
ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his sovereignty,
who, as I mm his creature, had an undoubted right by creation Lo govern and
dispose of me nbsolutcl}r as he thought fit; and who, as I was n..cre:i:um who

 
   
   
 

had. oficxadml him, harl Iikmvisn n judicial right to condemn me to what punishment
he thought fit; and that it was my pari- lo submit to boa-1' his indignation because
I had sinned against him.

 
     
 

I then mlleclocl, lefi Clad, who was not only fighteous, but Omnipotent, as
he had thought fit thus to pmtish mid afflict me, so ho was able to deliver mo ;
that if he (lid not think fit to do if, it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself
absolutely. and entirely so his will; and, on the other hand, it was my duty also
to hope. in him, pm); to him, and quietly to attend the dictnics and zliroctions oi'
his daily prm-irience.

 
     
     
   
 

These thou Villas took me u innnv hrum (luvs--my I. ma. eav weeks and
i: v 9 , _, 3' .:

 
 

months; and one pnrticulm- cffml: of my eogitulions nu this oceasion I cannot.

 
 

omil: namely, one morning curly, lying in my bad, and filled Willi thoughts
nhont my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it>> discompnsed me very
' Call
upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glam}: mo."

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of horl, my heart was not only comforted, but
5 was guided and encouraged to pray auniestly to God For deliverance. 'Wlien I
lml done. praying, I. took up my bible, and opening it to rend, (he first words that
presented to me. warn, "Wait on the Lord, and be ol' good cheer, and ho. shall

 
   
  

much; upon which those words of the Scriptnm camo into my thonghle

   
     
     
 
  

sl-rouglheu thy hem-l: wait, I any, on the Lord." I: is impossible to express the

    
 

comfort this gave me: and in return, I thankfully laid down the lunch, and was
no more sad, at least on that occasion.

    
 

In the midst of these cogimtions, apprehensions, and 1-allecl-ions,it came into my
thoughts one day, rim: all this might be a mere chimoni of my ou-'nyanrll that tlm

 
   
 

foot might {m the pink (1? my own foot, when I came on show: from my lanai.

 
 

This cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself it won all a
deluxion-ilmt ii: was uorlxiugz; else but my own foot; and whymighl, not I come
thal- wny from the boat, as Well as I was going 'lhal. way to the bbat! Again, I
considered also, that I could by no means tell for certain whom: I had rind, and
where I land not; mitl that if of. last. this was the print of my own fool, I
had phured the part of thoso i'mls, who strive to make stories of spectra: and
nppariiions, and then are themselves fi-ighted at them more than any body clue.
New I began to take millage, and in peep abroad! ngninmfor I had not stirred

 
       
   
   
     
   
 

out of my castle for thmc days and nights, so that I began to storm for provision;
lfil.
 

for I had little or nothing within doom, but some burleycnlms and "mm,
Then I know that my goals wanted to be milked too, which usually WM my
evening tlivenxion--aud the poor creatures were in great pain and inmnvcnicnce
for want of it, and, indeed, it almost apoilcrl some of tlmm, and almost dried up
their milk.

Ileniteiiingwnyself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the
print of one of my own feet (and so I might, be truly said to start at my own
shadow), I began to go abroad again, and went. to my country house to milk my
flock, lint in see with what few: I went l'oi'wnrtl, how often I looked behind um,
how I was mndy, every now and than, t>> lay down my basket, and run for
my life, it would have made any one have thought it mu haunted with an evil
conscience, or that 1. land lately been most terribly frighten; and so indeed I
hnd.

However, as I went down thus two
or three days, and having; seen
nothing, I began [0 he n little holder,
and to think there was really nothing
in it but my own imagination; but I
could not pcmnade myself fully of this,
till I should go down on the short:
again and see this print. of a foot, and 'i 'V
measure it by my own, and see if there '4'
was any similitudc or fitness, that I 8'
might be assured it was my own foot.
But when I came in the place first, it
nppeaned evidently to me, that when
I laid up my boat, 1 could not Possibly he on shore any where ihereshouts.
Secondly, when I name to measure the mark with my own foot, 1 found my fact
not so large by a great deal, Both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to the highest degree; so that I
shook with cold like one in an ngnc, and I went home again, filled with the belief
that some man or men had been on shore there; or in short that the islnnd was
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and what course to take
for my security I knew not.

Oh, what. ridiculous resolutions men tnko when pnsscssml of fear! Tt deprives
them of the use ol' those means which reason offers for their relief. The firm:
thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my
tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy might not. find them, and than
frequent the island, in prospect of the same, or the like booty; than to the simplethere, and still. be prompted to frequent
the island; than to demolish my bcwm- and
tent, that Lhey might not see any vestiges
of my habitation, and be prompted to
look farther, in order in find out the
parsnn inhabiting.

These were the mibjenfs of my first
night's cogitation, after I was come home
again, while the appmhcnsions which had
so overrun my mind were fresh upon
me, and my hand was full of vapours,
as above. Thus fear of danger is ten
thousand times more terrifying: than
danger ilseifgvlmn apparent to the eyes;
and we find the burden of maxietygreutur
by much than the evil which we are

anxious about: but, which was worse than all (his, I had not that relief in this
trouble, from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped in have. 1 looked,

 

>.- 5

I thought, like San], who complained, not only that the Philistincs were upon -_
him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did not. now take due ways in '8

153

_ >>W: -=-- - -----=---' --~<'==r-:~w-::
"ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON l_YIHJSf_lE.'?-';& g) .9

 

 

   
   

 

thing of digging up my two corn-fields, that they might not Enrl SliCll a grain I"!

a" ...----<<...
 

compose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, nntl resting upon his provi-
dence, as I had clone before, for my defence and deliverance: which, if I had
(lam, I had at least. heen more cheerfully aupportorl under this new surprise, and
perhaps carried through it- with more resolution.

This confusion 01")":1' thoughts kept me walking all night; but in the morning
I fell asleep, goalhaving, by the anmsomcnt of my mind, hon", as ii: ware, tired
and my; 5,251 Exhausted, I slept very soundly, nnrl owakorl much honor composed
thouI had ever been before. And now I'hugan to think sedately; and, upon
the "my"; debate with myaoll, l. concluded that. this island, which rm: so
oxceollingly plmsani.' frniefiwl and no farther from the mainland than we I lmd
soon, and was not so (entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that although there
were no slated inhahiranis who lived 0-1 the spot, yet that thoro might sometimes

 

come honts oil" from tho ashore, who, either whh design, or perhaps never but
when they wore clrivon by cross winds, might come in) this place; that I had lived
here fifteen years now, and had not. met with the least. shadow or figme of any
people before; and that, if at any time they should be driven here, iv. was
probable they went away again as 50011 no over they could, seeing they had never
thought. lit to [ix there upon an'ir occasion, in this time: that the most. I could
suggest any danger from, was from any such casual accidental landing of
ggliug people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they worn rlriven
er, were here against their wills ; so that they made no stay here, but went
all again with all possible speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they
should not have the help of the tides and daylight book again; and that there-
fare I had nothing to (lo but consider of some safe retreat, in case 1 should see
any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely Lorepcat that I had dug my care. so large as to bring a
door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifi-
cation joined to the rock. Upon maturely 'consideriug this, therefore, I resolved
to draw me a second foxtification, in the manner of a, semicircle, at a. distance
from my wall, just where 1 had planted a. double row of trees about twelve yuan
before, of which I made mention: these trees having been planted so thick before,
there wanted but a Few piles to he driven hot-ween them, that: they should be
thicker and stronger, and. my wall would soon be finished.

So that I had now a (lauble wall, and my outer wall was thiolmned with pieces
of timber, old cables, 3nd every thing I could think of to make it mung 5 having
in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put; my arm out at, In the inside of
this I thickened my wall to about ten foe: thick, continually bringing earth out of
my care, and laying it at the fool: of the wall, and walking upon it; and through
the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took noting that I gel:seven on shore out of the ship : these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted

\ them into frames that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time. This wall I was many a waxy month in finishing,
and yet never thought myself snf'c till it was (lone.

When this was. done, I stuck oil the ground without my wall, for a. gram way
every way, :13 full with strikes or sticks oi" the mien-like wood, which I found so
not to grow, as they could well stand; insomneh, that I believe I'might set in
near twenty thousand of them, leaving it pretty large space between them and my
wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my outer well.

Thus in two years' time. I had a thick grove; end in fire or six years' time I
had a wood before my dwelling, grown so monstrous thick and strong, that it was
indeed, perfectly impassable; and no man, of what kind, mover, would ever
imagine that there was any thing beyond it, much less at habitation, As for the
Way I proposed for myself 10 go in and out. (for I hell: no avenue), it was by
setting two ladders; one to a pint of the rock which was low, and then broke in,
told lelt room to place another ladder upon that; so that when the two lzultlcm
were taken down, no man living could come down to me without mischieling
himself; and if they had come down, they were still on the outside or my outer
wall.

Thus I tool; all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own
preservation ; and it will be seen at length, that they were not altogether without
just ICESODHtllUUgll 1 foresaw nothing at: that time more than my more fear
anggestul.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other affairs, for I
had a great concern upon me For my little herd of goats; they were not only a
present supply to me upon every other oecnsion, and to he sufficient for me
without the expence of powder and shot, but; also ohm-ad the fittigue of my hunting
after the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the ndvuntflge of them, and to have
them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long considemtion, I could. think but of two ways to
preserve them: one was to find another con? nicnt. place to dig a care under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and the other was to enclose two
or three little bits 01" land, mnoto hum one another, and as much conch-filed as I
could, where I might keep half a dozen young goats in each place, so 'thzit il' any
disaster happened to the [lock in general, I might be able to raise them again with
little trouble and time; and this, though it would require a goat deal of time and
labour, I thought was the most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out, the most: retired ports of theisland; and I pitched upon oneI which was as private, indeed, as my heart could
wish, (or i: was a little damp piom of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
wands, where, as is ohscrved, 1 almost 105:. my life once before endeavouring to
come back that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear
piece of lrmd, near three acres, so surrounded with woods that it. was almost an
enclosure by nature; at least, k- (iinl not want neur so much labour to make it so
as the other pi'uccs of ground I had worked .so hard at"

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less than a
month'fi time 1 had so fenced it round, that, my flock, or herd, call it which you
please, which weru not so wild now as at. first they might be supposed to he, were
well enough secured in it. So, without any farther (inlay, l removed tan she-goats
and two he-goatr to this piece: and when there, I continued to perfect. the fence;
till I had made it. as scours as the other, which, however) I did at more leisure,
and 'u. look me up more time by a great deal.

All this labour 1 was at the expanse of purcly from my uppmhcnsion on the
account of v print of a man's loot which I hail seen 3 for as yet 1 never sm'r any
human crustum come near the Island, and I had now lived two years under these

 

nnmsinn (:5, which, indeed, n'zmic my life much less conil'ortal'clc than it was before,
as may wali be imagined by any who know what it is to live in tho constant snare
of the fear of man : and this I must observe with grief, too, that the discomposure
of my mind hml PS4"an imprexions also upon the religious. part of my thoughts;
for the drum! and terror of falling into the hands of sax-ages and cannibal: lay :50
upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a duo- tnmper for application to
my makrr; at. least, not with the sedate calmness and resignation oi" my aoul
which 1 was wont to do. I mther prayed to God as under great nt'llictiou and
pressure of mind surrounded with danger, and in expectation every night (if
being muruh'red and duvouuxl before the morning; and I must testify from my
experience, that. n. temper ot' pence, thzuikfulncss, love and afl'cctiou, is much more
tho properfrnuie for prayer than that of terror and discomposnrc 5 and that under
the llruzul of mischief impending, :1 man is no more fit. for 9. comforting per-- '
formancc of the duty of praying to God, than he. is for repenlmicc on a. sick-bed
---for those. (Iiaconiposiu'es zill'ect the mind as the others do the body--and the
discomposure of the mind must necefiarily he as great a. disability as that ol' the
hotly, and much gmater; praying to God lacing pmpcrly an act. of the mind, not
of the body.

But to go on. After I had thus scoured one part of my little living stock,
I went. about the whole island searching for another private plam to make such
another deposit; when wandering more to the west point of the island than I had
ever (10116 yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon Lhe sea at a
156
great.- distance. I had found 9. pexspcclive glass 01- two in one of the scamcn's
chest which I saved out of the ship; but I had it not, about me, and this was so
remote, that I could not Lell what to make ol" 1:, though I looked at 1: till my eyes
were not able to look any lmwer-mwhetl1c1 it "us a. boat or not, I (lid not know;
but as I descended Ewm the hill, I could see no mom of 11,50 1' "me it ov'~c1 , only
I resolved to go no more without a pclspecth-e glass 111 mv pocket.

"'hen I was come clown 1111'. hill to the end (If thu bland, wlmre indeed I had
never been before, I was presuntly convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot. was not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined .- and, but that it
was a. special providence that, I was cast; upon the aide of the island where the
savages never cmue, T. should easily have known, that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes 11'qu the main, when they happened to he a little too far out
ill. sea, (0 shout over ((1 that side (if (he island for hm'hmu'; likewise, as the}.r often
met, and foLght in their canoes, the victors> having taken any prisoners, would
bring them over to (his 191101'3, where, according to their dreadful customs, being
all Cannibals, they would kill and eat them--<<J which hereafter.v: , Ev). u v - . ,
ADVENTL'RES or non 0N (lRllSliE.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said ohm-1:, being the south-
west point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it
possible for me to express the horror of my mind, nt swing the shore spread with
skulls, hands, feel, and other bones of human bodies; and particularly, 1 observed
:2 place where there had been olfirc made, and {L ciwle dug in the earth, like :L
cock--pit, wheml supposed the savage wretchos had sat down 1.0 their inhuman
feasting: upoh the bodies of tlioir fellow-creatures.

I was so :islonished with the sight of these things, that I entertained no
notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all my apprehensions
won't) buried in the thoughts of such a. pitch of human, hellish brutality, and the
horror of the degeneracy of human imnirc; which, though I had heard of oil-en,
yet 1 never had so near n. view of before--in short, I turned away my face from
the horrid spectacle; my stomach grow sick, and I was just at the point. of
fainting, when nature discharged tho disorder from my stomach, and having
vomited wit-ll nn uncommon violence, so I wns a. little relieved, but could not hear
to stay in the place a moment; I got. me up .the hill again with all the Spocd I
could, and walked on towards my own linhitafiion.

When I came a littla out of that port of the island, I stood still a. while as
amazed .; and then recovering myself", 1 looked. up with the utmost oit'ection of my
soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, lhnt had cnsi. my first
lot in a part of the world Where I was distinguished from sucli dreadful m'cntnrcs
as those; and that, though I had esteemed my present condition very miserable,
had yet given (118 so man}r comforts in it, that I had still more to giro thanks for,
than to complain of -, and. this above all, that. '1 had, even in this miserable con-
dition, been coxnl'ortnd with the knowledge (Ii~ himself, nnd the hope' of his
blessing, which was 3 {Mick}: more than sufiiiciontly equivalent. to all the misery
which I had sulfa-red, or could suffer.

In this frame of (lumkfulnes: I went home to my castle, and began to ho
much easier now, 3,9 to the sfety of my circumstances, than ever I was before----
for I observed, that them Wren-hes never came to this island in search ol" what
they could get--perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, any thing
hero, and having oft/en, no doubt, been up in the cove-rod woody par: of it, without
finding any thing to their purpose. I know I had been lit-re now almost eiglltecn
years, and never saw the least footsteps of a human creature there before; and

might he here eighteen mom as entirely Concealed as [was now, if I did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion to do, it being my
mil}.r buzincss to keep myself entirely conmaled where. I was, unless I found a

better sort of creatures than Cannibals to make myself honour to.
Yet I entertained such an alvhorrence of the savage wretchea that I havebeen speaking oi', and of the. wmlohal inhuman custom of their devouring and
eating one anolhm' up, that I continued pensive and sad, and hep: c-lmc within

my own cim:
mean by it my three phuitatione; namely, my castle, my country scat, which I

 

c ('0': almost two years after ehis; when I - my own circle, I

 

called my hon-er, and my enclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for
rIU'ersiun which
'sflfearful of
30,501 k after

any other "so len as an enclosure for my gums; fur the

   

nature "am nm 1.23 thus-e hellish wmtclxes was such. that I- s
r>> .

 

seeing them as of seeing the devil. .lximscif ; nor did I so much as
my boat ail this time, but began rather in think of making me another; i'Si- cmild
not thinl; of ever making any move attempts to bring the other boat round the
island to me, lest I should meet with some of those creatures at. sea in which> if I
had. happened to have fallen into their hands, I luxew what would have been my lot.

Time, howe\ er, and the satisfactinn i had let I was in no (inngm' of being
diecovernrl by these maple, hcgzm to wear elf my uneasiness about them, and I
began an live just in {he snmn compused manna): as before; only with this
din'ehenm, that I used more onntion, and kept my eyes mom abnut me than I did
before, last 1 should happen 10 be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was
more cautious of firing my gmi, lost, {myof them on the island should happen to
hear it; and it was therefure a. very good providence to me, that I had furnished
myself with a tame breed of goats, that. I had no need in hunt any more ."bOHf
the woods; or shoot at them ; and if ll (lid catch any more of them after this, it-
wns by traps and snares as I 112M). dune helium--so that for two years nficr this, I
believe I newer fired my gun once ofl', fliough l ncvcrwcnt ontwithouc it. ; and
which was more, as ,l. hnd saved three pistols out of the ship, 1 always carried
them out with me, m- at least two of them, sticking them in my goat's-shin bult;
I likewise furbishcd up one of ilie great cuilassfcs 11ml- 1 had on: of the. ship, and
made me a belt lo pnr, it in also; so that I was now a most formidable fellow to
look at when I went abroad, if you add u; the former rlcsmiption of myself, the
pm-ticular of two pistols, and a great hmad-swoul hanging at my side in a hell,
but without a. scalibnrd.

Things going on thus, us I have said, far some time, I seemed, excepting
these cautions, to he mduced to my former calm sedate may of living. All those
things tended to shew me more and more, how far my condition was from being
miserable, compared to some others--nay, to many other particulars of life, which
it might. have pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting haw
little repiuiug there would be among mankind, at any condition of life, if people
would rather compare their mneition with those thnt are worse, in order to he
thankful, than be always comparing them with those which are better, to assist:
their murmui'ings and complainiugs.As in my present condition there was not renlly many things which I wanted,
so indeed I thought that the {rights I had been in about these savage \vretchcs,
and the concern I had been in {w my own preservation, had taken 01? the edge
of my invention for my own conveniences, nnd I had dropped a. good design,
whichI had once hen: my thoughts upon; and that was, to try if I could not
make some of'iny barley into malt, and then try to brew myself soma beer.
This was renllv a' whimsical thought, and I repvm'cd myself vol-y oflcn for the
simpliq'fi'g: of ii; for I premntly snw there would he the want of several things

necessary to the making my beer, that would be impossible for me to supply;
as final, (mks to preserve it in, which is a thing that, as I have observed

almmly, I could never campus: ------no. though I spent not many days, but weeks,
my, months, in attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next. place, I had no
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it
boil; and yet, had not all these things intervened--I mean the {rights and terrors
I was in about the savages--I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it. to pass
too ; for I seldom gave any thing over without accomplishing it, when I once had
it in my head enough to begin it.Vnnvwrmms or ROBINS-0N cxusos.q\K.

'_

But, my invention now run quire another way; for night. and day I could
think of nothing, but how I might destmy some of these monsbeis in their C]'Ih':i
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim they should bring hither to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[1hr Inhn'vmn Fran]

destroy. It would take up' a larger ")1an than this whole work is intended to he,
to sc-L down n11 the contrivatnces l hatched, or rather breaded upon in my
thoughts; for the destroying these <<matures, or at least frighianing them, so ns to
prevent their coming hither any more; but all was abortivm-m nothing couhl bepossible to talm cfi'ect, unless I was to be there to do it myself ; and what could
one man do among them, when perhaps there might. ho twenty or thirty of llmm
together, with their (huts, or their bow and arrows, with which they could. 8110M:
as true to a mark us I could with my gun? Sometimes I contrived to dig a. halo.
umicr the place who're they umclo their fire, and pot in five or six pounds; of gun-
pnwclezy which, when they laintlJecl their iim, woultl consequently who lim, and
1: ; but as, in tho first plum, I should he very ionth to

 

blow up all that was near
wssm so much powder upon them, my store now luring Wilhiu tho. rpmplily cf' :1
barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going oil a: any tannin limo, when H;
l'italll. rmrprizse them; and at best, that it would but. little more than just blow tho.
(in: about their ears. and fright them, but not sufficient to make (hem forsake le
plum; so I laid it asirlo7 and than proposed, that I would place myself in nmhusli'
in some convenienL place, with my lhmn guns all double loaded, and in rho. middle.
of their bloody ceremony, let fly :it'. i'hcm, when I should he sure to kill or wound
perhaps two or three at every shot; and than, falling iu upon them with my
three pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt but- that, if there were twenty, I
should kill them sill. This fancy plensed my thoughts for some weeks, and I was
so full of it that I ofizen dreamed of it; and sometimes, that I was just. going (a
let fly 9!. them in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my inmgination, that l employed myself several days
to find out proper places to put. myself in ainbuscade, as I said, to watch [or
them _: and I went fmquontly to the place. itself; which was now grown more
familiar to me ; and especially while my mind wns thus filled with thoughts of
revenge, and of a. bloody putting Monty m- thirly of'them to the sword, as I may
call it: but the hormr I had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous
wretchas devouring one mother, abated my malice.

"roll, at length I found a place in the side of a hill, where I was satisfied I
might- securely wait till I saw any of the heals coming, and might then, even
buforc they would he Nady to come on shore, convey myself unseen into thickets
of trees, in one of which there was a hollow large. enough to conceal me entirely,
and where I might. sit and observe all their bloody doings, and {also my full aim
at their heads, when they were so close iognther as that. it. would hr. next to
impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four
of them at, {he first shot.

In this plsco, then, I resolved to fix my design; and accumlingly, I prepared
two mushcts and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two musket; I loaded with a
brace of slugs each, and four or five einaler bolloes, about the size of pistol

hulleis, and the birding-piece]: loaded with near a handful of swam-shot. of the
largest-size; I also loaded my pistols with about fonr'bulletx each: and in ibis
 

posture, well gravided with annnunition for a second and third charge, I prepared
myself for my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme for my rlesign, and in my imagination put
it in prurtice, l. continually made my tour every morning; up to lhn top of the
hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about three miles or were, to see if
I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing
over inwards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two 01'
three months constantly lmlit my watch, but came aim .~ back without any
discovery, ('hm'c having not in all that lime been the least appearance. no: oniy

  

(m or near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or gln~scs
could reach every way-

As long as I kept up my daily tour tn the hill to look out, so long also I lccpl:
up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a. suitable
frame for so outrageous an execution us the killing twenty or thirty naked
snvagns For an offence, which I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my
thoughts, any fin-flier than my passions were at first .fired by the horror I
conceived at the unnatural cnslom of the people of that country, who, it seems,
had been sufi'emrl by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to have no
Ollie): guide than that of their own abomilmhlo and vitintml passions, and consc-
quently were half, and perhaps hail been for some ages, to ac: sneh horrid things,
and receive such (hemlful customs, us nothing hut-nature, entirely nlmmlmied of
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could he v0- l'un them into : but
now, when as I have said, I began to he weary of the fruitless rams-Eon, which I
had made so long and so far every-morning in vain, so my opinion of {he action
itself began to alter, and I h9g5"), with cooler and calmer thoughts, in consider
what it was I was going to engage iii--what mithm'iey or call 1 hzul to pretend to
he judge and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Hem-cu hm! Lil-night.
lit for so many ages to suffer unpunishcrl to go on, and to he, as it. were, the
executionels of his judgments upon one aims-her: also, how far these people were
offenders against me, and what right I had in engage in film qnm'rel of that blend
often will)

 

which they shod promiscuously one upon another. 1 debated this \-
mysell' thus:-- " How do I know what God himself judges in this particular
case? It Is certain these paiplc do not commit this as a crime; it is not, ngnins:
their own consuimccs mpmving, or their light reproaching them. They do not
know it. to he an chance, and lhcn commit in defiance of divine justice, as we do
in almost all the sins we commit. They think it no more crime to kill a captive
taken in war, than we (lo to kill an ox, nor to eat human flesh,1lian we do to
eat mutton."

When I had considered this n. little, it followed uucessuri .

IRS
mL-EWWW; .. M1. .

 

 

\
 

certainly in the wrong in it--thnt these people were not. murderers in the
sense that I hurl before condemned them in my thoughts, any more than those
Christians were murderers, who often put. to death the prisoners taken in

battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions, put. whole troops of men to
tho sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down their arms and
submitted.

In the next place, it occurred to me, that. albeit. the nmge they gave one
another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet. it was molly nothing to me: these
people had done me no injury--film! if they attempted me, or I saw it neceseflt'y,
for my immediate prcacrvution, to full upon them, something might he said for
it; but. that, l was yet out of their power, and they had really no knowledge of
mu, and consequently no design upon me, and, therefore, it. could not. be just. for
me to full upon them--that. this would justify the conduct. of the Spaniards, in
all their barharit-ios practised in America, where they d-gstmyod millions of those

pt'OplQ, who, hm '01- they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several blood;-

 

nnd barbarous rites in their customs--such $13,- sacrificing hunmn bodies to their
idols--were yet, as to the Spaniards, verv innocent people: and that the rooting
them out. of the country is spoken of with the utmost- ahhormncy and detcslntion,
even by the Spaniards themselves, at this time, and by all other Christian nations
of Europe as n more lmtchory, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjusti-
liable either to God or man, and. such, :15 for which the very nnnu'. of n Spaniard
if! reckoned to he frightful and terrible. to all people of hmnanily, or of Christian
compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly eminent For the product.
of a race of men who were without principles of tenderness, or the common
bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to he a mark of a generous
temper in the mind.

These considerations really put nae to a, pause, and to a kind of full stop ,: and
l hogan liftlc by little (a be off my design, and to conclude I had tukm a wrong
measure in my resolutions to ntmok the 53Vuges~thut it was not. my business
to meddle with than), unleas they first. attacked nut, and thin it was my husincss,
if possible, to prevent. ; but that, if I new discovered and attacked, than I knew
my duty.

On the. other hand, l argued with myself, that this really was not the. way to
deliver myself, hut- eutimly to ruin and destroy myself ; for unless I was sure to
kill every one that not only xhuuid he on shore at that. time, but. that should ever
Come on shore alter" ands--ii" but one of them escaped to tell their nountrv-people
what had happened, thev would come over again lw thousands to reveng" the
(loath of their fellmm' . and I should only hrmg upon in) self a certain destruction,
which at present I had no manner of occasion [on
- Upon the whole, 1 concluded, that neither in principles nor in policy, I ought
one way or other to concern myself in this affair--flint my busines was, by nll
possible mews, to conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least signal to

them. to guess by, that. there were any living creatures upon the island, I mean
of human shape.

Religion'joinccl in with this prudential resolution, and I Was convinced now
many ways that I was perfectly out of my duty, when I was lying all my blood y
scheme5_f9r-the destruction of innocent creatures--I menu, innocent as to me: as

lo the crimes they were guilty of inwards one mother, I had nothing to do with
them; they were national pnnislnnenis to make u just retribution for national
offences, and to bring public judgments upon those. who offended in a publiv
manner, by such ways as best please God.

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to
me, than that I had not lice" suffered to do a. thing which I now saw so much
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I
had committal it; and I guru most l'mmhlc thanks on my knees to God, that.
had thus delivered me from hlood-gniliiuoss, bosom-hing him to gmnt me the
protection of his providence, that .I. might not full into the hands of barbarians, or
that I might not lay my hands upon thou), unless I had a more clear cull from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this: and so far was I
from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretchos, that in all that time I
 

never once went up the hill to see. Whether there were any of them in sight, or (0
know whether any of them had been on shore there or not, that I might not be
tempted to renew any of my contrivancea against them, or he provoked, by any
:ulvuntqgw which might present itself, to fall upon them; (ml')r this I did ----I went
and removed my boat, which 1-1le on the other ride. of the island, and carried it
dowu to the mist. end of the whole island, where I ran it into n litlle mm which I
found umlmrsome high rocks, and where I knew by reason of the currents, the
savages durst not, at least would not, come With their bouts, upon any account
whslsoever.

With my boat I carried away every thing that. I had left them ,elonging to
her, though not necessary for the bare going thither--namely, a mnsl, and suil,
which I haul made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed, which could
not he called either anchor or grappling--however, it was the best I could make
of its hind. All these I. removed, that there might not be the least shadow of
any discovery, or any appearance of any bout or of my habitation upon the
island.

Rasides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retineo than ever, and seldom went
from my coll, other than upon my constant em[tnlnfiiout--nnmely, to milk my
Simmons and manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the island, was thLL' out of danger; for certain it ig, that. these
Skvugc people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came with any lhouglzls
of finding any thing hero, :2 :d consequently never wandered off from the must;
and I doubt not but. they might have been several limes on shore, aller my
apprehensions of them hm'l made me caution-i, as well as before; smd indeed, I
looked back with some horror: upon the thoughts of what my condition would
have been, if I had chopped upon them, and been (lismvcmd before thal, when
11 ed and unarmed, except Wll'll one gun, and tlnLL loaded a ten only with small
mot, I \vnlkod every where, pooping and peeling about the island, to see what I
"mm slei-r--\\'lmt a surprise should I have been in, it", when I discovered the print
of a. man's foot, I had inslnml of that seen fifteen or twenty smug-ca, and found
them pursuing me, and, by the awittuess of their running, no possi ilily of my
escaping them.

 

Tho thoughts: of this amnetimm sunk my very soul within me, and disl
my mind so much that I could not soon necerer it; to think what. I should have
done, and how l not only should not have been able to resist. them, but even
should not have had presence of mind enough to do wlwt I. might have done,
much loss whnluow, after so much consideration and preparalion, I might ho
able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I would he very
melancholy, and sometimes it Would last a. great while; but I resolved it at last

16Gall into thanleulncss to that Providence, which had delivered me from so many
unseen dangers, and had kept me from those mischicfs which I could no way
have been the agent in delivering myself from; hem-use I had not the least-
nozion of any such thing depending, or the least supposition ol' its being possible.

This renewed :1 contemplation, which oflcn had come to my thonghta in
former time, when host I began [a son the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the
dangers we run through in this life, honr wonderfully we are delivered when we
know nothing ol' it--hoW, When we are in n quandary (as we call it), a doubt or
hesitation whether in go this way or that way, a secret. hint shall direct us this
way, when we intend to go another way--nay, when aense, our own inclination:
and perhaps business_ has called to go the other way, yet a strange impression
upon the mind, from we lmow not- what. hprings, and by we know not what.
power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards appear, that
had we gone the way which we would have gone, and even to our imagination
ought to have gone, we should. have been mined and lost. 1" pm these, and
many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever
I found these secret hints, or pressings of my mind, to doing or not doing any
thing that presented, or to going this way or that way, I never failed to (they the
secret dictate; though I knew no other reason for it, than that such a pressure or
such a hint hung upon my mind. I could give many emplos of the success
of this conduct in the course of )nyliib,1mt more cspeciallu' in tho latter part
of my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many occasions which it is very
likely I might have taken notice of} if I had seen with tho same eyes then that 1
saw with now. But it is never too late to be Wise; and I cannot but advise all
considering men, whose lives are attended with such extraordhim'y incidents as
mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not. to slight ouch secret intinmtions of
Providenm, let them como from what invisible intelligence they will--that 1 shall
not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly they are a. proof'of the
convuse of Spirits, and the secret communication between those embodied and
those unemhodicd~and such a proof as can never be withstood~of which 1 shall
have occasion to give some very remarkable instances, in the remainder of my
solitary residence in this dismal plnm.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange, if I confess that these
anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon
me, put on end to all invention, and to all the contrivzuices that I had laid for my
future acconnnodations and conveniences. I had the care of my safety more
now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not to (hire a nail, or chop :1
stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should make should he heard--- much less
would I fire a gun, for the same reason--and, above all, I was very uneasy at
 

making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day,
should lmuny mo; and, for this reason, I removed that part of my business which
requimd fire, such as burning of pole and pipes, &c., into my new apartment in
the wand ; where, after I hm! been some time, I found, to my unspeakable
consolation, a more natural cave in the earth, which went a vast way, and where
I {hire say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of in, would be so hard}; as to
venture in, nor indeed would any man else, but one, who, like me, wanted
nothing so much as a. sal'o retreat.

The month of this hollow was at the bottom of a great. track, where, by men:
accident (I would say, ii I dial not gee an abundant. reason to ascribe all such
such things now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees
to make charcoal; and before I go on, I must observe the reason of my making
(his charcoal, which wns lhns:

 

I vas afraid of making aamoke about my habitation, as 1 said before; and
yet I could not live there without. baking my bread, cooking my mom, &o.; so I
contrived to bum some wood hora, as: l hml seen (lone in England, under turf,

 
   
 
  

till it became chnrk, or dry cnnl; and then putting the. fire out, I pmsm'ved lilo
coal to carry home, and perform the services which fire was wanting for at home,
without. danger or smoke.

 
   
   
 

But this by the bye. W'hile I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived
that, behind a very thick branch of low brush-wand or mulm'wmd, there was a
kind of hollow place; I was curious to look into it, mid getting with difficultyA I '
32;" ADVENTURES

 

op ROBINSON CRUSH-257$

 
  

 

M ,5;-_-.'----

    

  

"' upright. in it, and pvrhupg another with me;
'- bu: I must. confess Lo you, I made more haste

: out than I did in, when, looking further info

  

. .
' _ i; the Mace, which was perfectly dark, Tsuw hvo
"a: broad shining eyes of some creature, whether
devil or man I knew not, which Lwinkled like
two stars, the dim light from the nave's mouth

shining directiy in and making the reflection."-4-..."-
zamumme

w
' {W .-

 

However, after sumo _1)$msc,I roco arc-d myself, and began to call myself .1
thousand l'onls, and tell myself, tltm: he that was afraid to scc the devil was nut.

 

 

fit to iii-c iwmn',' years in an island all alone, and lint I durst to believe {have
was nothing in this care that was more frightful. than unwell. Upmi (his;
plucking up my courage, I look up a huge firehrslnl, nnd in I rushed again, with
11:0 slick elnmiug in my hand; I. had not- gone Three slaps in, but I was almost as
much frightened as I was before, 'l'm' I heard u very loud nigh, like tlzal. ol' :1 man
'" tonic gain, and it WM followed l); :1 broken noise, as if of wards half cxpr
("31mm -_-, deep sigh again. I stcppctl back, and was indccd struck with such a
surprise rhsl; it put me into n cold sweat; mid il' i had had a. hat on my head, I
l if: off. But still plucking
up my spirits as well. as I could, and cucmiraging in} self :1. link: wiih considering

 

 

will not :nswcrfor it than niyhair might not have lifte-

rlzat the power and prr Mice of God was every where, and was able 1-.) protect

me; upon this I Stepped forward again, and by the liglxiv of rho lire-Mum],

holding it up a little. over my hand, I saw lving on the ground :1 nzosi. maxim-nus i

friglnul. old lze-gnnl, just making his will, a; we say, gasping for life; and dying,

' need of men: old agc. I
I stirred him a little, to see if I could gel. him out, mid he assayed to get. up, E

but was not able to misc himself ; and l llmught with myself, he might even he :}

 

 

my, for if he frightened me 50,110 would certainly fright any 01' the savages,
if any of them should be so hardy as to come in them, while he had any life
in him.

I, was now rmoveuul from my surprise, and began to look round inc, when I
found the cave was but very small; that is to say, it might he about twelve fcct
over, but in no manner of ailmpe, either xounrl or square, no hands having cvcr
hecn Cmplnyed in making it but those of more nature; I. observed also that there
was a place at: iho farther side of i: that want in further, but so low, that it
ruqu'irhd me to creep upon my hands and knees to get into it, mid whither ix;

1

went I knew not : so, having no candle, I. gave it over for some time, but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with candles and ii tinder-box,
which I had made. of the lock of one of the xmiskcts, with some wild-fire. in
the pan.

 
 
 
  
 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles of my own
making, for I made very good candles now of goat-5' fallow 5 and, going inLn this
low place, 1 was obligal to creep upon ail-fours, us I have said, almost; ten yards,

 
 

which, by the way, I thought was a venture hold enough, considering that l

 
 

knew 10: how far it mighl go, or what was beyond it. When I was got through
the strait, I found the roof rise higher up, I believe near twenty f'ccl. ; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I (lure say, as it was, to look round
nothe sides and roof of this vault or one. The walls rcflvsrled :Iu hundred thous'mti

lights to me from my two candles,- \\'hut it was in the rock, vhmhm' (liammxofi

or any ether precieus HEDIXBE, 171' Wold which I rather supposed it in he, l knew not-

 

The place I was in was a must delightful. 0m ity, Gr grnim, of its kind, n5
ruulrl he expected, though pet'lhutlv dark; the flrmr was girl-3; and level, and had a

 

sort ol' small loose gravel upon i , so that there was no nauseous creatures to he
seen; neither was there any damp or we: on the sides. of the roof; the only
<<Zlillicultw' in it was the entrance, \vhizzh, however, as it>> was a place of securitv, and

such. a retreat us I wanted, I' thought: that was a convenien '-

  

so that. I was really
lxajviced at the diseoa-ery, nnd resolved, wiihuut any delay, to bring some of those
things which I was mosr- anxious about to this plane 3 ;.\:iitiuulzirly, I resolved to
bring here my magazine: of powder, and all my spare firms, namely, mo fowling-
place; [For I lnul three in all), and three. musicals (lb): of them I had eight. in nil) :
so I kept- ;tl. my castle only live, which stand. randy mounted, like pieces of cannon,-

 

011 my outrun-:1; fence, and were 1' ml}: also in lake 0th 011 am); expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my unununition, I was ehiiged to open the
hart'el of ponder which E took up out of the sea, and which had been wer, and I
found. that the water had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder
on every side, which, (taking and gro 'ing hard, hnd pr
kernel in :1 shall, so that. 1 had near 5i: pounds of l'\ .

'ed the inside like a

 
   

. good jwmler in the
centre Di" the cash: and this was an agreeable discover>>: to me n: that time: so I
carried all away thither, never keeping nhorc Win or three pounda of powder with
me in my castle, 5'01: fear of n surprise of any kind: I also carried thither all the
lead I hall lci'r- for bullets.

l (hue-led myself now like, one of the ancient giants, which were snid to live. in
caves and holes in the rmks, ~
myself while I was here,

 

'lrure none could come. at them; for l pr 'xundrzd

   

al' live hundred savages were to hunt me, ti) could

norm.- liml me out-- or if the did. tlzev wmild not. venlnre In . Hack me here.
, .. , .-

 

 

'.l.'he old gnat which I found expiring, died in the mouth 01' the can
day after I had made this discovery; and 1 found in ninth easier 1!) dig a. gk'rfll-
halo. there, and throw him in and cover him with earth, thnn to thug him out ;
l inlcrred him there, ('0 prevent offence to my nose.

.'.' U

 

.l. was new in my twenty-third year: of residence in this island, and was
naturalised to the. place and the. manner of living, that could I have but c

 

yed
the. certainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content. to have mpu' lated for spending the rest of my time here, even to
the has-t moment, (ill Ihud laid mo. dawn mid died, like the, old goat in the rare:
I had 3115>> arrived to (mun little diversions and mnnsemenm, which made the. tll'fl.'
pass more pleasantlywith me it great deal than it. did before, as, first, I. had

111Amrm'runns or nonmso'N CBUS'OE.

   

taught my Pall, as I mind before, to speak; and he (lid it so famrlnu'ly, and

talked 5|) anicnlatoly and plain, that it was very pleasant to me, and, he lived with

  
  
  
  

me no less than six--mKl-rwenty years : how long he might have lived slim-wards
I lgncw no}, though I know they have a imLion in the Bruzils, that they live a
hzmclre'l years; perhaps some of my Polls may be alive there still, calling after
I'oor Robin Crusoe to this day ; I Wish no Englishman l-lll' ill luck to come there
and hour them; but if he did, he would certainly believe it was the d'evil. liy
dog was :i very pleasant and loving companion to me. for no less than sixteen

years of in}: time and than (liecl of mere ohl ago. As for my cats, they multiplied

 

as I haw: observed, to that dogma, that I was ohligml lo shoot several of them at
first, to hoop them from devouring me and all 1 hurl; but at length, when the
two old ones 1 brought with mo were gone, and al'lor smnu time continually
driving them from me, and letting, them have no provision will) me, they all ran

wilcl into the woods, except two or three fin'ouritos, which I lmp: tame, and whose

  

young, when the had any, I always drowned, and these were part of my family:
besides these, I alwnp kept (m) or three househohl kills Inboul. inc, which I taught
to feed on: of my hand; and had also more parrots, which talked pretty well,
and would all call Robin Crusoe, hm. none like my first; nor, indeed, did 1 take
the pains with any of them than. I had clone with him. I had also several tame.
Seil'f'JWlS, whose names I know not, which I raugiif upon the shore, and cut thei
wings; and the little smhcs which I had planted before my castle wall being now
grown up to a. good Lhich grove, these fowl; all lived among these low trees, nnd
lured there, whi

 

was very agreeable to me ; so that, as I said above, I began to
be very contented wilh the Me I lerl, il' it might but have been secured from the
dread of sin-agave.

But it was otherwise directed; and it might. not b: amiss for all people, who
shall meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, namely, how
frequently, in thc course of our lives, the evil which in itself we sash I'nosi- to
shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the moat dreadful to us, is often-
times this very means or door of our deliverauice, by which alone we can be raised
ugnizi fro": the afiliction we are fallen into. I could give many examples of this
in the course of my unaccountable life: but in nothing was it more particularly
remarkable, than in the circumstances of my Inst years of solitary rcsirlcncc in
this islrmtl.

It was now the month of December as. I said above: in my tn'cnlr-thn'il your;
and this being the southern solstice--<<for winter I cannot call it-- was the
particular lime of my harvest, and required my being pretty much nlnmxl in the
fields; when, going out pretty early in the morning, even before it was thorough
day-light, I was surprised with scing a light of some lire upon the share, at a

172
distance from me. of about two miles, Iuwmla the and of the island where I had
observed some savages had been, as before ; but not on the other side, but, to my
great affliction, it. was on my side of the island.

I was, indeed, terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short within my
grove, not, daring {0 go out, last I might be surprised; and yet I had no more
peace within, from the apprehensions 1 had, that. if these savages, in rambling:
over the island. should find my com standing, or cm, or any of my works and
impmvcmem, they iwulcl immctlintcly conclude Iliut there ware peoplu in the.
place, and would then never gin: over till they found me out. In this extremity
I went back directly to my castle, pulled up my ladder after me, having made all
things without look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting my' in a posture of defenm: I,
loaded all my cannon, as I called them--that is in my, my muskets--which were

mounted upon my fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend mysch
t0 "10 135"- gasp; not forgetting seriously to recommend myself to the divine
pmturction, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands ol tlm
barbarians; and in this 1705mm I continued nlmut two hours, but began to lie
mighty impatient for: intelligence abroad, for I hurl no spies to send out.

After sitthig while longer: and musing what I should {lo in this case, 1 was

not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer; so, setting up my lnrlder to the Side
Of the hill where there was :1. flat. place, as I observed before, and then pulling the
17:3"---- . .'.....~"'.I

   

ADVEYI'URES 0F ROBINQOK CRUSOE.

holder up alter me, I set it. up again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and
pulling out my perspective glass, whi ..l .l. had taken on purpose, I laivl mu down

ally g:

found lhm'e were no less than nine naked antigen sit-ling round a small fire they lr

   

flat on my liclly on the gmmul, and began to look for the place. I pm

had made; not to M! 'm (hem -----i'ur they had no need 65' that, the weather being
extremely hot----- but, as I supposed, to (hers some of lhrir barbarous diet of
human flesh which they had brought with them, whether aiive 01' dead I could
not lmow. _

The}: had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon the shore;

 

and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed lo me. to waif. the return of the (load
to go away again. lt is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me ;.
into, especially seeing them mum on my side the island, and so near me too: but
when I observed their coming must b>>. always with the current: of the ebb, I
began afterwards to he more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of ride of.iluud, if they were not on shore him";
and having made this observation, I went abroad about. my harvest work with the
more composure.

.'\s l Mpecictl, so it pr-wml: I'm' as soon as the tide made (a llm westward, I
saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) All 3mg: I should have

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
   

observed, that for an hour and more before they went off; they wont to dancing,

'W'WW mm:

and I could easily discern their postucs and gestures by my glasses: I could only
pcmcirc' by my nicest. observation, that. they were stark naked, and had not the
least. covering uimn them: but whether they won: men or women, that I could
not distinguish.

A'
and two pistols at my girdle, and my great word at a
and with oil She speed I was able to make, I went- airay w the hill, Where I
had dismvcrnrl tho first appearance of all. As soon as I gut hither, which was

 

soon as ,l. saw them shipped and gone, I tool: two guns upon my shoulders,

 

23' side, without. a. scnbba

 

not less than two hours (for I could not go spam, being so loaded with arms as
l was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages on that place:
and looking out fixrther, I saw the wow all at. ten together, making over for

 

lhe main.

This was-n. (hmdl'nl sight to me, especially when, going to (he slmr ., I could
see the marks ol,' horror which the dismal work they had how: about. had left
behind it, namely, the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so fillt'd
with indignation at the sight, that I began now to premeditate the destruction of
lhe next that I saw there, lol. them he who or how inanSSr secret.

It seemed mident to me, that the visits which they thus made to this island
:mzmummcmmm

 

     
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

  

were not very frequent; for it. was above fifteen u'ioni-ha before any of them.
came on shore there again--that is to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or
signals of them, in all that time; for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure
not to come abroad, at. least, not so far; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably,
by reason of constant apyrahensiuns I was in of their coming upon me by
surprisonrfrom whence I ohm: 'e, that. the expectation ol' evil is more hitter than
leu suffm'ing, especially if there is no room to shake 08' that expectation, or those.
alil'vi'olzonsions.

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour, and took up most of
my hours, which uhould have heen better employed, in conniving how to circum--

 
 

rent and fall upon them by the Very next time I should. see them, especially if
tl

 

should be divided, as they were the last time, into two parties; nor did I

  
 
 

consider at ail, that if l killed one party, suppose ten or a damn, I was stiil the
next day, or \vec i, or month, to kill another, and so (mother, even all infins'mn, till
1' should he at length no less it, murderer than they were in lacing men--enters, and

 
  
 
   
 
      
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
      

purhaps much more so.

I spent. my claps now in great pnrplm'ity and anxiety of mind, expecting; that
I aliozild one day or other fall into ihe hands of they: merciless <<ventures ; if I did
of: any time venture abroad, it was not without. looking round me with tho.
grcmcst care and caution imaginable; and now I found, to my great comfort,
how happy it was that I had provided a tame lioch or herd of goats; for I.
Liars: not, men any account, fin: my gm), especially near that side 01"le
island whom they usually came, last I should alarm the sm'ngos; and if they
had lied from me now, I was sure to have them come back again,wi1.h perhaps
two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days, and then 1 know what
to expect.

However, I wore out 9. your and three months more before I erer saw any
more of the savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is
true, the)' might. have bean there once or twice, but either they made no stay, or
at. least I did not hear them; but in the month of May, as near as I could
mlmlatc, and in my fem-and-twentieth year, I had a very stmngc encounter
with them, of' which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months intm-vnl,
was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always frightfiil dwams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night: in the day gram troubles overwhelmed un-

 

niind ; in the night I dreamed often of killing the savages, and the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it, But to waive all this for nu'hilo: it was in the
middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I. think, as well as my pnnrwonrlon cnlcndar
would reckon, for l marked all upon the post still--I say it. was on the nixteenth

17
ADVENTURES 01' ROBINSON CRUSO .

of May that it blew a great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning
and thunder, and a very foul high: was after it; I know not what was the
particular orcasion of if; hut as] was reading in the. Bible, and taken up with
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with the noise of a
gun, as I thought fired at sea.

h ThizA was, to he sure, a surprise or a quite different nature from any I hurl met
with before; for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up with the greatest haste imaginahlc; and, in a [rice clapped up my
ladder to the middle place of the rork, and pulled it. after me, and, mounting it.
the second time, got to the top of the hill _: that very moment :1. flash of fire limit:
me listen for a smond gun, which, accordingly, in about hall" a momont, I heard,
and, by the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sen where I was driven
out with the current in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some Ship in distress, and that
they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired these guns for
5i 13151 of distress, and to obtain help. I had this presence ol' mind that. minute
as to think that though I could not help them, it might he they might. help me _;
so I brought together all lec dry wood I could gel. at. hand, and, making a. good
handsome pile, I set it on lira upon the hill. The woml was dry, and Maxed
freely, and, though the wind blew very hard, yet it lmrnl. i'ui ,- ., so that I
was Certain, if there was any such thing as '1 thip, they must needs see it _: and no
doubt they did, for He soon us ever my fin>> hiazed up, i heard another gun, and
after that. seveml others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long
till day broke; and when it was. broad day, and the air cleared up; I saw some.
thing at a grout distance at sea, full cast of the island, winjrher a sail or a 112113 I
could not, distinguish, no, not with m}- glasses, the distance was so great, and the
weather still continuing hazy also; at least, it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it did not more,
so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may
he sure, to be satisfied, I tool: my gun in my hand, and ran towards the south-em:
side or the island, to the reeks, where I had been formerly carried away with the
current; and getting up thorn, the weather by this time luring perfectly clear, I
could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck (ii a ship cast away in the night
upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and which
rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream, and marina a counter stream, or
eddy, were the occasion of my recovering then from the most desperate hopeless
x-undition that ever I had been in all my life.

Thus, What is one man's safety is another man's destruction; for it set-ms
those men, whoever they were, being out of their lmwledge, and the rocks being"we..." _.__V .. .,....

 

 

wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing
hard at east and eaat--north--east. Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily
. suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have snved
themselves on shore by the help of their boat; but the firing of their guns for
help, especially when they saw, as I imagined, my tire, filled me with many
thoughts: first, I imagined that, upon seeing my light, they might have put
themselves into their boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore, hm. that the

sen going very high, they might have been cast away; other times I imagined
that they might hare lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways; as
particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges
men to stave or take in pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard

with their own hand; other times I inmginotl they hnrl some other ship 01' ships

in company, who, upon the sin :03 of distress they had made, had taken them up

a

and carried them off ; other whiles 1 fancied they had all gone oil' to sea in their
 

host, and being liui'i'ied away by the current. that I had been formerly in, were
emu-13d out. into the great mean, where than: was: nothing but misery and pei'ishing ;
and that perhaps they might, by this time, be slem'ing, and in a condition to eat
one another.

All ihesc were but conjectures at he
cunlcl do no more than look upon the Misery of the poor men, and pity them :

 

.; so, in the cumlition I was in, I

which had still thie good effect upon my side, that it gave me more and more
came to give thanks to God, who had so happily and comfortnbly provided
fir: 2110 in my desolate condition, and that, of two shipt' cumpauies, who wmx'.
new cast upon this part of the world, not Olie.' life should be spared hut mints,
I learned here again to observe, that it, is very rare that the providence of God,
cases us into any condition of life so low, or any misery so ;' eat, but we may set:
something; or other to be thankful PM, mad may gee nth-em in worw circumstances
than our own.

Such certainly was the case nl these men, of whmn I could not so much as
am: room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing could make if: rational
sa much us to wish or upset that, they did not all perish them, except the
'------zuid this

 

putsibilitj' only M their being taken up ['1' another ship in comptu
was lml. more possibility indeatl; for I saw not. the least signal or appearance of
any such thing.

I cannot explain, by any possible energy ol' words, what a. strange longing, m'
hankering or desire, I felt in my soul upon this sight --- breaking out sometimes
thus :~'-' 021 that theme had been but one or two, tiny, but one soul saved our of"
the ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but lmvo had one mmpsmion, one
l'nllow-cneal.-.n'c, to have spoken to me, and to have com-arsed with l" in all the
time of my solitary life, 1 never felt- so eat-nest, so strong a desire, after the soulety
of my fellow-creatures, or 50 deep 2| mgrm: at the want of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the afl'ections, which, when they are
SM n-gving h3- somo object in View, or be it some object though not in View, yet
rendered present. to the mind by the power of imagination, that motion carries out
lhc soul by its impehmsity to such Violent- (anger embracing; of the object, that
the absence ol' it. is insuppm'tnblo.

Such were these eai'mfit wishings that but one man hud been saverll Oh, that
it [ml Ewen but. one! I believe that I repeated the wowls, " Oh that it had been
In". one!" a thousmd times; and my desire? were so moved by it, that when I
$90th the words, my hnntis would clench together, and my fingers press the palms
nl' my hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed
it im'v'iunfal'ily; and my teeth in my head would strike against one another so
strong, that l'o)' some time I could not part. them again.
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Let the naturalist explain them things, and tho. reason and manner of them;
all l can say of them is, to describe the fact, which was ever sm'prisiug to me
when T found it, though I knew not from what it should proceed : it was
doubtless the affect. of :mlent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind,
walking the comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow Christians would
have been to mu.

But. it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both, forbade it; for till
the. last; year of my being rm this island, 1' nm'el.' knew whether any were sm'ed
out of that ship or no; and had only the allliciiuu, some days after, to see the
corpse of n. dmwnrcd boy come on xhore, at the end at" tho. island which was
next the shipwreck: he had on no clothes hut. o. smmau's waistrcnnt, o, pair of
opon-hnee'd linen drawers, and a blur. linen shirt: but. nothing in direct me so
much as to guess what nation he was ol'. Ha had nothing in his pockvt but. two
pieces of eight, and a tobacco pipe: the last was to me of ten times more valw
than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great: min to venture out in my boat. to the
wreck, not doubting but I might find something on board that might. be useful to
me; but that did not altogmthm' pro-5 me so much, as tlna possibility that them
might be yet. some living creature. on board, whose life I might not; only save, but
night, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degren; and this. though:
clung so to my heart, that I could not be. quiet. night nor (lay, hut. i must vermin:
out in my boat. on board this wreck; and committing the rest. in God's providence,
I thought: the impression was so strong upon my mind that, it could not be
resisted, that, it. must. come from some invisible direction, and that. I should be
wanting in myself il' 1 did not. gay).

Under the powu' of this iunn'es'sic-n, I hastened hack to my castle, prnpared
every thing for my voyage, took a quantity of broad, xi great not for fresh water,
a. mmpass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), a
basket. full at raisins; and thus. loading myself with every thing )wcossary, I
went down to my boat, got the water out. ol'her, and got her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for mom; my aecoad cargo was in great
bag full of rim, the umbrella to set up over my head lhr shade, another large pot
full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small lam-'95, or barley-cakes, more
than before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and. a cheese; all which, with great.
labour and sweat, I brought ('0 my boat; and praying to God to direct. my voyage,
I put our, and, rowing or paddling the came along the share, I came at. lmet. m
the utmOst point of the island, 0:1 that side, namely, north-cast. And now 1 was
-tn launch out into the mean, and either to venture or not to venture: I looked on
the rapid currents, which ran constantly on both sides of the island, at a distance,

.f' _ Wand which were very terrihlc to me, from the resemblance of the hazard I had
lmun in before, and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw, that if I was driven
into either of those currents, I should he carried a vast wny out 10 sea, and
perhaps out of reach or sight of the island again; and that then, as my boat. was
but small, if any little gala 0!. wind should rise, I should he inevitably lost.

These though . so oppressed my mind, tluxt I began to give mar my antel--
pi'ise; and having hauled my ham: i N!) :1 little creek on the show, I stepped out,
and sat me down upmi a little spot of rising gwuncl, very pensive and nmious'
between frail: and desire, about my \oynge; when, m; l "as musing, I could

perceive than; the. lick: was turned, and the lioml cumu on, upon which my going

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

wne for so many hunts inlpi ct-xcthle; upun this it presently occurred to me, that

I should 'go up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I
could, haw lhe sets of the tide or currents lay, when the flood came in that I
might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, .I might not expect to he
driven another way home, with the snmc mpidness of the uu'mnts. This thought
was no Homer in my head, hm. I cast my (231': upon a little hill which sufficiently
overlmlml the sea hath "-nys, nml fmm whence. I had n clear View of the cm'rcnts,
or sets of the lltlc', and w elf in my return; here I

 

- - I was to guide in.

 

found, that the (:m'n':r.t ol' the ebb set out flow by the south point of the ishmd,
so (he turnout of the lluual set in close by the shore of the. north side: and that. I
had nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in my return, and 1
shonlxl do well Enough.

Encouraged nil?) thi: observation, I resolved the next morning to 59$ out with
the first of the tide; and, reposing myself for the night in the canoe, under the
gram. watch-coal. I mentioned, I launched out. I made first, a little out to sea full
north, till ] hogan to feel the bcnclil oi the currcnf, which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side
current had done liefere, and so as to lain-.- fmm me u'l govurnment of the boat; H.
but having a strong steeruge with puddle, I went, I say, at a great rate, directly '

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.

it was a dismal sight to look at; the ship, which by its building was Spanish,
stuck fast, jammed in butwecn two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her was
hmlon to pieces by the sea: and as her l'urecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had
run on with great violence, he): maiuuuist mid l'ornnmst were brought by the
hoard, that is to say, hrolccn short oh' ; but her howspriu wa. aonnd, and the head
and how appeared firm. \Vhen I cauu: close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
which, seeing mo coming, yolped and cried, and as soon as I called him, jumped
into the sea to name to me, and I look hini into the bout, but found him almost
dead for hunger and thirst: I gave him a coke of my bread, and he ate it like :I
ravenous wolf that had been starving for a. fortnight in the snow: I then gore
the poor creature some Fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he
would hurt: burst himself.

Ailer this I went on board. The first sight. I met with was iwn men drowncd
in the cook-room, or forecastlr: of the ship, with their arms fast about one another.
I concluded, as is, indeed, probable, that when the ship ounh, it being in in storm,
the sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the men were not. able. to
hear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as much as
if they had been under water. Besides rho (log, there was nothing left of the
ship that. had life7 nor any goods that I could see, but what was spoiled by the
water: then: were some (mks of liquor, whether wine or lmu: y I knew not,
which lay lower in the hold, and which, the. water being (ehhcd out7 I could see;
but they were too big to meddle with; I saw several chesls, which 1 believed
belonged to some of the seamen, and I got two of them into the host without-
exauuuing what was in. them.

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore purl: broken off, I am per-
suaded I might have mode at good \oyagn; for, by whaLI found in those two
chests, I haul room to suppose. the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and
if I may guess by the course she steered, she must have been hound from Buenos
A3125, or the Rio do in Plato, in the south of America, beyond the Bmzils, to the
Havunna, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so, perhaps, to Spain: she had, no doubt,
a. great treasure in her, but of no use .12. that time to anybody ; and what became
of the rest of her people I then know not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cusk full of liquor, of about twemy
131
gallons, wiziuh I got into my boat with much difficulty. 'l'hcne were several
muskets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about four pomnls of powder
in it; as for the mmhols, .1 llflkl no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder'horn. I took a lire-shovel and tongs, which I wantctl extremely, us also
two little brass kettles, n copper-pol to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with

this cargo, and the (log, I came away, the ride h

 

mung to make home again;
and the same evening, nhout an hour within nighl, [ reached the island again,
weary sud fatigued to the lost degree.

Impwe'l that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolvcd to hm'bour
what I lea/.1 gotten in my new care, not to carry it. home to my Post-lo. Alter

 

rcfl'eslu

 

f myself, i, got all my cargo on shore, and I began in examine the
particulars: the cask of liquor I found to be a. kiml of rum, but not such as we
had at (he Brazil" :me, in owoitl, not at all good: but when I came to open
the chests, I found Several things which .l warned; for example, 1 found in one a
film (we of bottles, of an wtmordinm-y him], :qu filled with cordial waters, line,
and very good; the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped with
Slih-'er. 1' found two pots of van good succntlca, or su'cetmeats, so fzutcned also
on the top, that the salt. water haul not hurt them, and two more of the same,
which the. water haul spoiled: 1 'limud some very gonrl shirts, which were very
welcome to me, and about. 21. dozen and a halt" of white linen hundlmrchinl's and
coloured nockclotlis; the "ruler were also very welcome, being cxcoc-liuuly
lBfi'ESlllllg to wipe my face in a. hot rlny. Besides this, when I cmnc to the (ill in
the chests, I found ihere three. great. bag}: of pieces. of night, which held about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of thcm, \vrnpt up in a paper, six
doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; i suppose they might.
all \'ielgl'i near a pound.

'l'ho. other chest I found had aoxue clothes in it, hut- uf little vnluc; but, by
the circumstzmccs, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate. as the : was
no powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder in the flu fl. , kept,
I suppose, for charging their ibwling-picms on occasion. Upon the whole, I got
very lit-[Jo by this voyage that was of much lose to me; for, sis to the money, I
lav-'1 no manner 01' occasion for it-wii. we; to me as the (llrl: under my feet; aiicl I
would have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were thing); I greatly wmuml, but hurl. not hncl on my rm now for mnny
years: I. lnlcl indeed, got two pair of shoes now, Whinh 1 took oil' the feet of the
two drowned man whmu I snw in the wreck; nncl I found two pair more in' one
of the (thesis, which were way welcome to me; but. may were not like our

     

illnglzsh shoes, either for case or sen-ion, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. 'I found in the seanmu'a chest about fifty picccu of eight in myals, but no

2.23% 44;,nggold: i suppose this belonged to n poorer man than the other which seemed to
belong to some officer.

Well, however, I lagged the money home to my rave, and laid it up, as I had
done that before which I brought: from our own ship; but it was :1. great pity, as
I said, that the other part of tho, ship had not come to my sham, for I am satisfied
Emight have loaded my cams several times over with money, which, if I had
ever escaped to England, would have lain have safe enough till I might. have
come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, 1 went back
to the host, and ran-ed or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where
I laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found
every thing safe nnd quiet; so I began to repose myself, lire after my old fashion,
and take care of my family affairs ; and for awhile i lived easy enough, only that
then I nswd to be, looked out. dinner, and did not go abroad
<<1. aw, i me E did stir with any freedom, it wns always in the

   

I was more Vigil

so much: and if

 

east will of rho. island, where I war pmtty well :rlislied the savages. never came,

 

and where I could go withou: so many precautions, end ouch :1, load of arms and
iunlltunitim'l as I nlwnys carried with me, if 1 went the other way.

I lived in this condition near two years more; lml. my unlucky head that was
always to 11!: mo. know if: was born to make my body miserable, was all these two
years lillcd with projects mad. designs hmr,.if it were possible, I might get away
from this island--for sometimes I was for making another voyagevto the wreck,
though my mason rohl mo, that. there was nothing left: them worth the hazard of
:o_'.-arve---smnolEmos [hr n ramble one way, sometimes another--and I believe

 
 

V01] _. , il' I had hnd the has". I went: from Salleo in, I should have ventured to sea,
hound any where, 'I: knew not whither.
I have been, in all my circumstances, a. memento to those who are touched

with that general plamic of mankind, whence, for might I know, one half of their

 

miseries flow--I mean, that. of not being samfial with the station wherein God
and nature hath placed them--for, not to look back upon my primitive condition,
and. the excellent advice of my father, the opnosition to which was, as I may cull
it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of" the same kind have been the means
of my coming into this miserable condition; for had that Providence, which so
happily had seared me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with confined desires,
and could I have been contented to have gone on gradually, I might have been
by this time -- I mean in the time of my being on this island ----~ one of the most
considerable planters in the Brnzils; nay, I am pe'sundcd, that by the improve-
ments I had made in that little time I lived there, and the increase I should
probably have made if I had staid, .[ might have beon worth a hundred thousand

15?.
 

 

moidores: and what. business had I to leave a settled fortune, well stocked
plnntulion, improving nnd increasing, to turn snpcrcargo to Guinea, to fetch
"agrees. when patience and time would lmvc so increased our stocl: at home, that
we could ham bought them at our own doors from tlmsa whose business it was to
finch them? And though it. had cost us somclhing more, yet the (lifi'emncc of
that price was by novmwns Worth saving at so grant. n hazard.

But as this is omlinnrily the fate of young hands, so milection upon the folly
of it is n5 ordinarily the exercise of more years, or of the dear bought experience
of time--and so it was with me now ; and yet, so deep had the mistake taken
root in my temper, that I muld not satisfy myself in my stntion, but was

 

continually poring upon the means and possibility of my escape from this plnce;
and that I may, with the gmntcr pleaxum to the render, bring on the remaining
part of my siory, it may not be improper to give some account of my first
conceptions on the suhjacl of this foolish scheme for my amipe; and how, and
upon wlmt foundation I acted.

1 am now to be supposed to be retired into my castle, after my late voyage to
the wreck, my frigate laid up, and secured under water as usual, and my condition
real/cred to what. it was before. I had more wealth, indeed, than I had before,
but was not at all the richer; for I had no more use for it than the Indians of
Peru had before the Spaniards came thither.L...e':....-_..z__....d

,(.x_. .1."

;.wu.-1<<..._W

TT'T--

vat.

mC/_u.;&_m

l

< ~""B'A|hfl'l--;N

 

It mm mm of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-antl-twamielh
year of my first. setting foot on the island of solitariuess; I was Iving in my
ball, or hammock, awake, and very well in health--haul no pain, no distemper}.

no uneasiness of hotly, no, nor any uncasinoes of mind more than culinary, hm.

could by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep ; no, not a wink all night
long, otherwise than as follows :--

 

It is as impossible as needless to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts
that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time. I ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or by
abridgnmcnt, as ] may call it, to my coming to this island; and also of that Pm'l.
of my life since I came to this bland. In my reflections upon the state of my
case, since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of
my affairs, in the first yeah; of my habitation here, to that comic of anxiety, fear,.ilJ'r' ENTURES 01? ROBINSON C111: 50E.

  
   
    
   
   
 
    
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  

 

and care, which I 111111 lircd in ever since I had seen the print. of a font in the
Hand: not that 1 did not believe the savages had frequented the island even :11!
fl"; while, and might have been several hnndmdS or them at times on the shore
there, but as I had new . known it, and wns inmpahis of my nprn'ehensions about
5,.) my satisfaction wag par-fool, though my danger was the same; and I was as
happy in not hum-ring my danger, as il" '1 had never really been exposed in i1.
This furnished 1113; thoughts with many very profitable reflect-ions, and particularly
this one: How infinitely good that Providcnve is, which has sctlded in its govern---
mnni. of mankind such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things ; and
though he 1- alks 111 the midst of :50 many thousand dangms, this sight of which. if
discovered-A) him, \1 ould dis

 

this mind and sink his spiiils he is kept 51516110.
and calm, by ha" 1115, the events of things hid {1 I011} his eves, and knowing "(311111)"
of the dangew which surrmmd him.

At'm' these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to reflect.
seriously "you the real danger I had been in for so many years in this very
island: and how I had walked. about in the greatest. security, and with all
possible tranquility, even, perhaps, when nothing but the hruw of :1 hill, :1
great tree, or the casual approach of night, had been between me and the worst
kind of destruction--namely, that of falling into the hands ol' cannibals and
savages, who would have seized 011 me with the same View as I did on a goat
or :1 11111.10, and have thought it no more a crime to kill and devonr me than
1 did of a pigeon ur a curlsw. 1 should unjustly slander myself if I should say
I was not. sincerely thankful to my great Preserrer, to whose singular protection
I ucknmvledged, with great humility, that all these unknown deliverancns
were due, and without- which .l should inevitably have. fallen into their merciless
hands.

XV hen these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in
wns1deI111L, the nature of time wretched cmatmos, I mean thn savages; and ho"
it came to pass in the maid, that the wise Governor at all things should give up
any of his mriMnros try-such inhumanity--Amy, to something so much below even
brutality itself--11310 devour its own kind: but. as this ended in some (at that
time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to enquire what 11111-1. of the world
these wretches lived in; how far off the coast it was PS10111 whence they came ;
what they veutlwed so far from home for; what. kind of boats they had; and why
I might nolforder myself, and my business, so that I might be as nhle to go over
thither as they ware to come to me.

[ never so much as troubled myself in consider what I should do with myself
when I came thither; what should become of 1113 if I fell into the hands of' the
savages 5 or how I should escape from them if they attempted to trike me; 110, nor
186

 

W}:

:(eiflr-- -:

 

mm"-
 

so much as how it wa's pesslble for me to reach the coast, and not be attached by

  

some or other of them, without any pas 13* of <<tethering myself ; and, if I

 

should nut fall into their hands, what. I should do for pro .. on: or whither 1.
should hmnl my course : none of these thoughts, I say, so much as name in my

way but. my mind was wholly twni upon the notion of my passing over in my

 

boat: to the Innin'mml. l, la'nlccrl hack upcn my present: condition as the must
miserable that: could possibly be; that l \ ~15 119:. able to throw myself into any
thing but don-.h zhm. could he called worse; that if I reached the shore of the

    

 

main, I might, perhaps mm). with n or I might. coast along, as I <<lid on the
shore of Afi-icn,1ill 1 came to some. inhabited country, and where I might find
i :1.

might take me in; and if the "'Dl'hi came to the "first, I could but. (lie, which

    

some 1' ; :uni <<tier all, perhaps, l might. fall in with some Christian suit. that

would put an eml tn) all the. 3 miscrit-q at once. Pr-ir note, all this was the fruit.

 

Ur :L tliiturbetl mind--an impatient temper, made, us it were, desperate h} thu
long Elmtiuunuce (:l' my troubles, and .'he. l..~nppoint.mnntn 1 had met in the wreck
.l h

earnestly longed for, znunely, wrxiehutly to q

   

l been on board Lu"; and where I hail been :'o near the obtaining of What 1 so

 

 

alt to, and to 1 1er 5mm: knowlud

 

 

t'rmn, (If the place where .1 Wm, :11le oh the probable "mum; at my deliverance

5m: 1 was unlisted whollv la ' these thoughts. All nur calm. of mind in m ' r; '.
y .. i. .) .i .. :7

 

nation to Prorhiencc, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven; secmcvl

 

to be suspended; and I as it were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything
but the project of 21 voyage to the main, which came upon me with aeurh 'i'm'i ,

and such an ixnpemosit ' of desire, that it was not to be resisted.

 

When this lmtl ngimml my thoughts for two huurrs or more, with such \'lnh
that it. set. my very luloml into a ferment, and my nuke heat as high as it I hml
been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour of my mind ulmul it,
mum", as it' 1 hml hccn fatigued and exhausted with the very thought. 0i it,
threw me. into a sound sleep: one would have thought 1 should have Llrean'ncd of
it; but I did not, nor of asu- thing whiting to it ; but. I (hemuerjt, that. as I was
going out. in the morning, as usual, from my Castle, 1 SM: upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages. coming to land, and. that. they brought. with them

another savagr', whom the}; n? ' going :0 kill, in order m eat him, when on a

 
 

surlrlcn tins say: that theywe . going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life;

in "'3' flaw, that. he calm: running into my little lhic

  

  

than [ though: grove,

 

my fortification, t0 l-inhg. hhnsrzll': 51ml that I, seeing him alone amt nut
perceiving that the other: sought. him that way, shcwcd myself to him, amt;
smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he lam-uteri (Eon-'11 to me, sec-wing to pmy
ins-to assist. him: upon which I shewed my ladder, madehim go up it, and can

 

him into my csve, and he became my servant; amt that. as soon as I got this man,ADVENTURES or nosixsex Gilliam.
I said :0 mwejf; " Now 1 may certainly venture to the mainland ; for this fellow
will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to <<10,:incl whirher to go {or

 

 

provisions, and whither not. to go for fear of being devoured; whal- plnces to
venture into, and what to escape." I wnkcd with this thought, and was under eucll
inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that-
tl finding that it was

 

no more than a. dream,
were equally extrava-
gant the other way, and
threw me into a very
great clcjecl-iou efspint-.

Upon this, however,
I made this conclusion,
that my (ml)r way to
g0 about. an aficmpt
for an escape was, if
passihle, to get u savage
in in my possession; and.
if possible, it should he
one of their prisoners
when: they had cou-
clemncd to be eaten,
and should bring them
hither 1.0 hill: but these
thoughts still were at-
tended with this (lifii-
Gully, that it wns impossible in effect. this, without attaching a whole caravan of

 

them, and killing them all; and this was not only .1 very desperate. attempt, and
might miscm'qv, but, on the other hand, I had greatly sampled the lawfulness of
it to myself, and my heart trembled at the thought of shedding so much blood,
though it was for my deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which
occurred to me. against this, they being the same mentioned before : but though I
had other reasons to ofi'er now, namely, that those men were enemies to my life,
and would dm-'mu' me, if they could: that, it was self-preservation, in the highest
degree, to deliver myself fmm diis death of a life, and was acting in my mm
defence, as much {:5 if they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I say,
though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for

"LY (lclivernnoe were very terrible ('0 me, and such an I could by no menus
reconcile myself to :1. grant while.

188'wat'usgv: ...V . .
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON

v1;

CRUSOE,

       

However, at last, after 11me secret disputes with myself, and after great
perplexities about it (for all these arguments, one way and anothor, struggled in
my head a long time), the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at length
mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into

2); hands, cost what it would. The next thing, then, was to contrive how to do
it; and this indeed was very difficult. to resolve on: hut us I could pitch upon no
probable means fbrit, so I resolved to put. myself upon the watch to see. them
when they (Lame on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures
as the opportunity should present, let. it be what- it would.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I sci. myself upon the scout as often as
possible, and indeed so often, till I was heartily tired of it: for it. was nlmvv. a
year and a hall" that I waited, and fin' a great part of that time went out, to the
wcst and and to the south-west corner of the island, almost every (lay, to see the
canoes, but. none appeared. This was very discouraging, tun] began to trouble
mo mnoh ; though I camiot say that it did in this case, as it had done some time
holbre that, namely, wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but. the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more cngcr I was for it: in a word, I was not at first.
more careful to shun the sight of those savages, than I was now more eager to be
upon them.

Besides, I fancied uniself able to manage one, my, two or thron ssvagas, if
I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to mo, to do whatever i should
tlimet them, and to prevent their being able, at any time, to (lo mo any hurt. It
was a grant. while tlntt I pleased myself with this affair, but nothing still
presented; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages come
near me for at great while.

About a year and :1 half after I had' entertained these notions, and hy long
musing had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of mi occasion to

 

put them into execution, I was .snrp
than five canoes all on shore together, on my side tho Mandy and the people "110

(l one morning early with seeing no less:

helougcd to them all landed, and out of my sight : the number of them broke nll
my measures; for seeing so many, rmtl knowing that they always came fol") "1'
six, or sometimes more, in a. boat, I could not tell what to think of it, 01' hm? I>>
take measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed; 6'0 I 18X "in l" "'3'
"Elle perplexed and discomfited: however, I put myself into all the smnn postures
for an attack that I lmrl formerly provided, and was just. ready for action if any
filing lmfl presented. Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they made
3"," 110m, at length, baing very impatient, I set my gums at the {out of my ladder,
and (-lamhcred up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual, standing so,
hmVevcr, that my head did not appear above the hill so that they could not
lastperceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass,
that they were no loss than thirty in mun N; that. they had a. fire kindled, and
that they had meat dressed : how they cooked it, that i. knew not, or what it was,
bul- tliey were all dancing in I know not how many barbarous geatures and
figures, their own way, round the fire.

"We" 1 was. thus making on them, I perceived by my perspective, two
miim'shla "watches dragged from the heats, where, it seems, they were laid by: auid
were now brought out for slaughter: I perceived ouc ol' thorn immediately fall,
being knocked down, I suppose, with a eiul) or wooden sword, For that was their
way; and two 01' (lime. others were at work immediately, cutting him open for
their cookery, while. the other victim rho; 13% standing by himself, till they should
be ready for him. At, that, very moment, this poor wretch, seeing himself a little

  
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he stated away from them,

 

and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly towards inc--I mean
towards the part of the coast whene my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frightened (that, I musl: m~l<nowlorlge) when I perceived him
to run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the

 

whole body; and now I expected thsu pm-l. of my dream was coming; to pass,
and that in: would germinly lalm shelter in m} grove; hm: I could not depend, by
any means, upon my dream for the rest of it, namely, that the other savages
would pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept my Motion,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there were not above- three
men that l'ollowm'l him; and slill more was I encouraged when I found that he

 

mwvwmmmcmgfi ,

outstripped them ocrliugly in running, and gained ground of them--so that if

  

he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw ea
them all.

he would fairly get away from

There was between them and my castle, rho crack, which I mentioned often at
the first part of my story, when I landed my cargoes out. of the ship, and this I
knew he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wrotch would be taken there:
but when the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but plunging in, swan through in about thirty strokes, or

 

thereahuuts, landed, and ran on with n'xccci .ng strength and swiftncas. When
the three pursucrs name in tho crook, I found lhaL two of them could swim, but
the third could not, and that he, standing on the other side, looked at. (he others,
but wen:- nr: farther; and soon after went softly haul: again, which, as it happened,
was very well for him in the main.

1 observed, that the two who swam were yet more than twice as long
Swimming ova-r the creel: as the fellow was. that fled from them. It czuue now
mil" 1'v'fll'mly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to

190

-32Mw; ~W'mflin
 

 

get :1 servam, and perhaps :1 Culllpmlion, or assistant, and that 'I was called
I) :iuly by Providence to 23113 this poor creature's life. I immediately gal. down

  

11:1
:11. 1hr: foot of the ladder, as I observed above; and getting u;

ridden: with Si." possible expedition, fciched my two guns, ['0'- thei' were hurl:

 

same haste to the Lop (1F the hill, I cmssctl inwards the sea; and having a very
short cut, and all down hill, chipped myself in die way between the pursue" and
(lie pursued, hnllowing aloud to him 111:1: fled, who, leaking back, was :11. "1'31
perhaps as much frirrhtened at 1119. 21'

 

 

:Ii them; but 1 hockoncnl with my hand 10 l?
a

him 1.0 come haul: --:1nd 111 the 11'. c: 11 time I slow! 1? adv ancml. in" -' the two Lin]! ".1;

 

followed--Him, 1'11 hing at once upon the foremost, 1 knot? 11:. -l him down v.12]; the Ill:

  

slack nl my piece ~-I 1 'zu loath t1.) me. bemnsc I would 11m him: the rest heni',

<<an!>>
3-: .

though. at that dismnm it. "mild 1w: 'um'n been unsilllx-'hcm'd--nnd lacing out oi

i-w'
sight if the smoke 1.00, tlicywonld 110: have easily known what to make of ii. ?'1
.
Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as if he "J

had linen frightened and I advanced upzwe towards him; lml. as I name "em-gr 1
perceived presently ho had 21 how and arrow, and was fitting 1: o filmm' :11 me; so
I was then necessimlezl to sham: iii. him. first, i" huh I did, and killed him 111. (he
fiist shot. The poor 53""?3" who flu-d, hut liSnl Hopped, though he 511w bath his
enemies fallen, and killed (as lw. thought) yet mm so li'iglltvnnl with the fire and

 

noise of my piece, that he 5411311 310 . , mini noilhm' came forward 1101' went
hnclcvmrd, though he soemed rather inclinrtl 1.1 Hy still 15mm l1.) come on. I
hnllhoml again to him, and 117110.11 xigns in cams 'i'oz'wm'd, which he easily under-
slnml, mad cnme a little way-"PS10.11 slapped 51min, mid than 51 li1.1.ln 13111110er11

stopped 1151:1111; and I could then In" c0110, flint he stood tremb.111g,as if ho, had

-Mfiwwwmfi>>... "NJ..-

\.

been when prisoner, and had jnsl hoen in he hillcd, us his two enemies were. I

mmmmmuym.mwxm.w

beckomul tolju1:1_1;s\i11 in come 1.0 me, and CW": him all 'he signs of cncom'ngu-
men: that I could lliinlc 0;? 111'. :l he came nearer and nearer kneeling down cv '1

   

  

   

ten or twelve stops, in token of acknowledgement foi saving his life. I smiled

 

at him, and. lonlmd plegsmitly, and beckoned to him to come skill neamr. Al.
I the ground)

 

 

length he. came close to me, and ilion he lmcclcd down again, ki
and laid his head upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my [hot 1111011

  

his head. This, it. seems, was in Iolmn of Naming to be 1111' slave for ever. .1

  

took him up. :uul inane much of him, and encouraged him all I could But there
was more work to do yet' , for I perceived the savage. whom I knocked domi wns
not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself : so I pointed
no him, and showed him the savage, that he was not dead; upon this he. spoke
mine words in me, and though I could not undc'stnnd than}, )"cl. I thought. they
were pleswmt to hour, for they were the fimt sound of n man's voice (11:11: 'I hm!
heard, my own excepted, for above fiveaucl--t-Wt'my years. But there was no
 

time for such reflections now: tho savage, who was knocked down, mcovcred
himself so far as to sit npon the gmnntl: and I percoived that my savage hogan
to he ufmid ; but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I
Would shoot him : upon this my savage, for so I called him now, made a moiiou
to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt. by my side-- so i did,
he no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one New cuts off his head
so cleverly, no executioner in Germany <<AM have done it sooner or better, which
I thought very strange for one who. I had reason to believe, never saw a. sword
in his life before, except their own Wooden swords; however, it seems, as I learned
afterwards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so
hard, that they will cut off heads even with them--oy, and arms, nnd that at one'

blow too. When he had done this, he (tomes laughing in me in sign of tiiiunph,
and brought me Ihe sword again, and, with abundance of gestures, which I did
not. understand, laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before me.

But that which astonished him most was, to know how I huxl killed the other
Indian so far off ; so, pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him;
so 1 bade him go, as well as I could. When he came to him, he stood like one
amazed, looking at him--turned him first on one side, then on the other--looked
at the wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in his breast, whomit had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had flowed; but he. had bled
inwm-dly, for he was quite. dead. Then he took up his bow and arrows, and came
hack; so I turned in go away, and Mekong-d him to follow mm, making signs to
him that more might come anew them.

Upon this he signed in me that ho. should bury them with sand, that they
might- not be seen by the rest, if they (biiowed; and so I made signs again in
him to do so. He fell lo work, and in an instant ho had scraped a hole in the

grim Mn \'meu

sand with his hands, big enough to bury the first in, mid than dragged him
into it, and covemd him, and did so also by the other; I believe he had buried
them both in a quarter of am hour: then calling him away, I carried him not to
my castle, but quite away to my rave, on the fsrnhcr part of the island; so I did
not let my (imam come in pass in that part, namely, that, he came into my grove
for shelter.
Hem I gave him broad unil 9.. bunch of raisins to cm, and n draught of water,
which 1 found he was. indeed; in great ("Mass for, by his "wing; and. liming
mfyegml him, I mark: signs for him to go lie down and sleep; penning 1.0 a place.

where I had laiil a. grim parcel of rice-straw, nncl a blanket upon it, which I us

 

to siecp upon myself sol'nelimcs: so the poor m'camre lay down, and. went [0
sleep.

He was :1 namely lmuclaome Fellow, perfectly well made, with Sh'aig'nt long
limbs, not too largg, PS2.11, and well shaped, :unl, as I reckon, about twenty--six
25-min of age. He had a. very gorzrl coimteuzuice, ml. 3 licvce and surly aspect,
ha: seemed to have. something very; manly in his face, and yet he had all the
hweetugas and softness of an Illumpean in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled : his lnir was lung and black7 not. curled like Won-l; his l'o"(~.henrl very high
mid large, and 5: great vivxcily and sparkling sliaryuess in his eyes. The colour
of his skin wad. n01. quite black, hat very tawny, aml yet not (I? an ugly yellow
nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and 'y'irgininns. and other natives of America
are, halof a. lurifrhl: kind of n rEnn olive colour, that had in it something very

 

igi'eeabln, thong 1 not very easy lo describe. His l'ncc was round and plump: his:
nose small, not llm'. like the ncgmes, a. very good mouth, thin lips, nml his teeth
line, well set, and white as ivory.

After he had alumlmx'cd, rather than slept, above half an hour, he \m'ufil
again, and comes outlnf the cam [20 me, for I lmd hmn milking my gmts, which
I had in the enclosure just by: when he. cspied me, he came running to me,
1"};ng himself down again 11pm: the gimmil, with all. the possible highs of mi
hmnhlc thankful disposition, making many antic gamma to show it. At lssl. llc
lays his head flat. upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other look upon
his head, m. he hm] done before: and, after thisx, made all the signs to me of
subjevlinn, servitude, mid submission imaginable, Lo 1m. mo. lmmv how much he
would serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in many things, and let
him know I was very well pleased with him. In in little limo I lmgm to speak to
him, and teach him to speak to me; and first, I maile- him know his name should
be Friday, which wns the day 1 smifl his life, and I called him so for m
iuemnry of the lime: I likewise taught him to any Master, and then let him
know that. was {0 be my name: I likewise. fought lzim to say Yes and No, and. to
kuuw the meaning of them. I gave him some mill: in an earthen pm, and let him
see me (Link it before him, anLl'sop my bread in it; and I gave him a. nuke of
bread to do (he like, which he quickly complied with, and macle signs that i t was
very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was day, 1 beckoned

him to come with me, and let him know I would give him some clothes, M which

 

 

.. ,'E--"mug-e'agth. . :

 

._l

 

\yflawmw...m-.....u-a_.3>.g .7>>

._....- -.-......,.-_.....a.v._)-;.

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON GRUSOE.

 

he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the place where
he had buried the two men, ho pointed a.

 

H}; to the spot) and showed me the
marks that he had made to find them a

 

 

11, making signs to me that we should
dig them up again and am; them: at this [ appeared very angry, exyresaed my
ahharrencc of it, made as if I would vomit at. the thoughts of it and beckoned
with my hand to him to come away, which ho. (lid immediately, with great
Sulnuieawm I then hurl him up to the top {if the hill1 to see if ins enemies wm'c

 

gone, Amd,p1dl_iug uut 111' 3.58, .l. lmkczl and snw plainly the place "here Ihey

 

had been, but no appearance of them m: of their canoes; so that it was plain that
they were gone, and hail lcll their two comrades behind them) without an 'rai'cll

alter them.

 

But l. was not Conlmit with this discovery; hut, having now more courage,

with me him

 
   

 

and, cunsequeu y, more curiosity, I mm: my man Frizl

 

the sword in his hand, with the how and arrow: at his hack, which I l'ouml ho
(mild use very- dexterously, making him carry one gun for we; and 'l: mm For
myself, and. away we marched to the plan: where these dentin-1's hm'l ham;
l'm'T had a mind now to get some l'ullei' intelligcnvc of them. 'zl'heu I c.
to the place, my very blood ran chill in my wins.t and my heart sank w
me, at the horror of the sPccteele; indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it.
was so to me, though Friday made. nothing of it: the place. was normal with
human bones, the ground dyed with the blood, great. pieces of flesh lel'l. hum and
there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of the)
trilunphaut feast they had been making them, after a victory over: their enemies.
3: saw three Sculls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet,
and abundzmce of other parts of the bodies ; and Friday, by his signs, made mu
mxderstzmd, that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that (law of
them were eaten up, and that he, painting '(0 himself, was; the fourth; that there.
had been a grant linitlc barman than and their next king, whose subjects, it
seems) he had been one. of; and Illal. thny had taken a; great number of prisoners,
all Whicll Were carried to sex-oral places by those that had taken thmn in the flight,
in order to rem upon them, as w s done here by these wretthes upon them they
brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the. skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever remained,
and lay them together on a limp, and make a great fire upon it, and burn
them all to ashes. I fmmd Fr
01' the flesh, and was still a cmmilial in his nature; but 'i discovered so much
ahlmn'mme at (he very thoughts of it, and at. tho. least appearance of it, that he
<lmrsi= not discover it 5 for l. had, by some means, let him know that 1 would kill
him if he offered it.

P had still a hankering stomach after some

 

 

  

        

it

.-- _-._~__.
,... .~; N, an":
,...=;__._._. *

   

nag-7..

Wmmv-yw '4:
.m--me

SS
\
\
- .. 43m>>, 3 ..- . .:.- 1' . .

 

ADVENTURES OE ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

(4,2? '

'5' When we had done this, we came back to our castle, and there I fell to Work
52' for my man Friday : and first of all, I gave him a pair of linen (lame-rs, which 1
;1 had out of the poor gimncfls chest I mentioned, and which 'I found in the wreck;

and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very wall; then I made him it,
jerkin of gout--skin, as well as my skill would allow, and I was now grown a.
wlemhly guud tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I hml made of n lmre's shin,
ri-'ry covenient, and fashionable enough: and thus he was (lresced for the present,
lalcmhly well, and mighty wall was he pleased to soc himself almrst as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in these things at first:

<<21->>:

wearing the drawers was very nwkwm'cl to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
gallcd his shoulders and (he inside of his arms; but a, little casing them where he
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he look to them
may well.

The next day
after I came home
in my hutch "ill:
him, I began to
consider where I
should lodge him;
and that I might
do well l'urhim, and
yet be perfectly
cm}- myself, I made
a little tent for him
in the vacant place
between my two
fortifications, in the

 

I'xmide of the. lam,
and in the oulsidu of the first: and as there was a, door or cntmuce there inm
my cave, I made :1 formal framed dear-case, mid 21. duor to ii. of hoards, and set
it up in the passage, a. little before the entrance ; and, causing the door to open
an the inside, I barred it my in the night, taking in my ladders too: so that
Friday could no Way come at me in the. inside of my innerinoat wall, without
making so much noise in getting over, that it must needs awaken me, for my
first wall had now u complete roof uver it of long poles, covering all my tent,
and leaning up to the side of the hill, which was again laid acmss with small
sticks instead (if Iaths, and then thatched over 3 great thickness with the rice
straw, which was strong like reeds: and at the hole or place which was left to go
in or out by the ladder, I had placed a hind 0f trap-door, which, if i: had been
1m".

 

, gaingw'" ~
 

attempted on the outside, would not have opened at all, but. would have fallen
down, and made a great noise ; and sis to weapons, I took them all into my side
every night. _

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man hntl a more flfithful,
lowing, sincere servant, than Friday was to me; without passions, sifllenneses,
or designs ; perfectly ohliging and engaging; his very affections were tied to 11m
like those of a child to a father; and I dare say, he would have. sacrificed his life
for the saving; of mine, upon any occasion whatsoever: the. many testimonies he
gave me of this put it
on: of doubt, and soon
convinced me, that I

 

needed to use no precau-

 

tions as to my safety on
his account.

This frequently guru
me occasion to ohserre,
and that with wonder,
that, however it- haul
pleased God in his prori~
dance, and in the govern-
ment. of the. works of his
hands to who from so
great 51 part of the world
(if his; creatures the bust
uses to which their facul-
ties and the powers of
their smils are adapted;
yet that. he has bestowed
upon them the same
powers, the some reason,
the same affections, le

   

name sentiments of kind-

ll.

Hess and obligation, the same passions and resentment: of wrongs, the same sense

I k u u
of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing gnarl, and receiving
\'\ good, that he has given us 3 and that, when he pleases to ofi'e- them occnsions of

exerting these, they are as ready, my, more ready, to apply them to the right, uses
for which the}; were bestowed, than we are. And this made me very melancholy
somethnes, in reflecthig, as the several occasions presented, how mean a use we

.45

_ my:

    
 

19?

    
     

 

 

make of all these, even though we have these powers enlightened by the great SSw (mm-hr--~mw _
mmmm muzwgn W

~73>> ruwirfi' '

2:51"?

I

37'; PS5"?

PS3

 

Q .. I

_ nmn I spoke: and he was the aptest. scholar that; ever was; and pamcnlorly was

A...._i_'_rp_.-:t

ADVENTUR .5 OF ROBINSON GllUSUli.

   

 

 

lamp of instmct'ion, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of his word, added
to our mulerstanding: and why if. has pleased God to hide the like saying know-
ledge from so many iillious ol' souls, who, if I might; judge by this poor savage,
would make a. much better use of it than we (lid. '

From hence I sometimes was led boo 'l'ar Lo invade the. sorer' y or"
Providence, and, as it were, arraig'n tho jnaiicc of so arlyilmry n di$pomwn of
things, that should hide the light From some, and reveal ii, to others and yet-

 

cxpcc: a like duty From buth; but. I shut it up, and checked my ihonghls. will!

this conclusion--$1M, we do "0!; know by What ligzt and law rhcse Slim 1 he

 

condemned; last that as God was nomssarily, and by the nature of his fining,
infinitalyholy and jnsi, so it coal-l "(IL he but that, if these creatures were all
sentenced to ahso'ncc from himsell; it was on account of sinning gooinst that
light, vi'hich, as the Scripture says, was :'s law to themselves, and by such rules
as their conscience; would acknuwladgc in he just, though the foundation was
no? discovered to us: and, seruudly, {hat still, as we are all clay in the hands
of the pollen, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast thou formed mo. Lhns'i"
But to return to my new companion. 12 um; greatly delighted with him, and
made if. my business In lmch him every thing that- Wss proper in makn lm elf
1!, handy; and helpful, but especially to make him spark, and understand me

 

    

u'

so merr- so eonseantly diligent, and w pleased when he- conlfl 1:an nnderseaml are,

or me to me understand him, that it was very plaasam. to me to talk to him. And

  

now my life began to he so easy, that I began to say to myself, that could I but
haw. been eafe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the
place where I lived.

M'ler I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought, that
in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
relish of a Cannibals stomzmh, l ought to let him taste other i!
him out one zooming with me to the woods. .I: went- indeed, int-e.-
laid out of my own flock, and bring it. home and dr

 

; so 7; tool:
[mg {1) kill a

hut. as I was going, I

  

D.
Q" 3' .
saw a she-gear lying down in {he shado7 and two you

     

   

.g ldrls sitting by luvs. I
catcher! hold of Friday. "Hold," {mid l, "stand still," and made sims 1:) Erin!
not to slir. Immediately I prosenled mg,- yiere, shot, and lo'l <l our. of Line
The poor creature, who had at. a ["5
men

 
   

nco, indeed seen mo lcfll tho savage

 

, but [lid not know, or crxnld imagine how 2'], was done, \rzu sensibly
l, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed, that I rhmJgh: he would
have sunk down: he did not. set: the kid I had shot at, or perm-Eva that I had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to lee! if he was not woumlfl'l Md; '15 I
fcund, presently thought I was ruaulred tu-kiil him, for he came and lmcelcd
1930F RDRINSDN CRUSH EL

down to me, and embracing my knees, said n gram. many things I did not
understand; hm I could US$13" sec [mi his meaning was to pray h'lf' net to
kill him.

I soon e'ounrl n i

 

. m mnvince him that I would do him no harm; and
him up :Iv the lnrul, laughed at him, nml pointing to the kid which I had
killed, heckancd to him 1'0 run and fetch it, which he did; and while he. was

 

tnlii

   

   

wnnrl )g and. lot ' 1:: In see how the creature was killed, I' landed my gun again,

 

and by and bye 1
to let Frid
painting: it) the final, which we?

a :1 grant fowl, lixe u haLn'h, sit upon :1. Iran within shot; so
: what I "mild <<'10, T. culled him to mo. again,
.i(lPS:e(l n parrcr, though I thought it had 1euen a
ing to the. pzul end Ln my gun, and In the. ground under the

rim fail, I made him understand that I would

or Mire-l}, I fired, and hit] him look, and iiuinediulex

 
 

   
   

hawk--<<I my, pr

  

nnm-ot, to let him see E would make
sheet and hill thne. bird; '

' fall. IT

I had snivl to him; and I found

  

he saw lhn p

   

sumrl like one {lighted again, nolsvithfanding all that

 

r: was the more amazed, because hr: did no}. em
me put anything ineo the gun, hill. lhnght "there must he some wonderful fund 01'
defilh and destruction in tllfll 1.hing,nhle ['0 kill 1mm, beast, bird, or anything,
mm: or far off ; for the asfnnishmcnt. this treated in him was such as could not

 

"I03: 011' [or u. long 0.: and I believe, i" .I would have. he! him, he \muhl have

 
 

\rorshippud nm and in gun. A's fur the gun itself, he would not. 51;; much as

touch it, ("or sm'm'nl dang .nter, but would speak to it, and tall: to it, as it" ii. )'flli

 

answered him, when he ' 'us by h elf ; which, as I zil'tern'mda learned of him,
35' a to desire it not. to kill him.

"'9", after: his astonishment was a little. over at this, I pointed to him to
run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but staid some time; for the
um'rnt, not being quile (lend, had fluttered a good way oll' from the plane where
5?>>: roll; however, he found lk'd', tool: her up, and brought her to me; and as
Iimrl perceived his fgiwvmmn nlmni the gun before, I tool: this advantage to
clzm'ga the gun ngain, and not lei. him see me do if, that I might be rendy ibr

  

any other msrk Limi. might present; hut nothing;- elee afforded al. that limo so
I brought home the kid; and ihe same evening I took the skin off, and out it
out as wail as I could, and having a put for that purpose, I hailed or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had begun to out
some, I gave some tn my mnn,who seemed very glad of it and Maori it very
wail; but that which was strangest to him was, to see me eat sail! with iL. He
made a sign to me that the. salt was not, good in cat; and putting a little inm

hi4 own month, he sec-med in museum it, and would spit and splinter at it,

 

washing his mouth with fresh water after it. On the other hand, I tank some
meat. in my mouth with-nut snip. and I premmled to spit and siilul'ter for want of

151')
salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would not (lo, he would never
cure for salt with meat, or in his broth; at least not a great. while, and than but
a very little.

Having this led him with boiled meat and broth, 1 was resolved to feast
him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it
before the fire in a string, as I had seen manypmple (lo in England, setting
two poles up, one on each side of a. fire, and one across on the top, and tying;
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat run continually: this Friday
admired very much ; but when he caaie to taste the flesh, he took so many ways
to tell me how he liked it, that I could not but understand him; and at last he

told me that. he would nerer eat man's fle=h anymore, "hich l was very glad
to hear.

The next day I set him to work to heating some corn out, and sifting it in
the manner I used to (lo, as I observed before; and, he soon understood how to
(lo it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was, and
that it was to make bread of; for after that I let him see me make my bread and
bake it too; and in a. little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
wall as: I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that having now two months to feeu instead or one,
I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I used to (lo; so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began the. fence

in the same manner as before, in which Friday not only worked very willingly
_.v ._n . .
Wflunmxrums or nomxsox cnuson.

   

--. ,_

 

   

and very hard, but did it very cheerfully;
and I told him what it was for, that it was
for corn to make more breachbccause he

'9 was now with me, snd that I mightnhave 3
. . .' cnoughfor him and myself too: he appear-- '

_ ed very sensible of that part, and let me ail
\ ( know that he though 1; I had much more In-

bour upon me on his account than I had '3 _
i

. .- for myself, and that he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.
:{F " ' " 201
 

This was Lhe plcnsnnlen yam- of .11 the lil'e 1 lcrl in this place. h min)- hogan
to tall; pretty well, and understand .the names of almost every thing _|_ had
occasion in call for, and 01" every place I had in send him in, and talk a great.
deal to me; so that, in (short, '1 hogan now to have some nsn for m)- tongue again,
which indeed 1 had very little occasion for heforc-- Lhnl. is to say, about, Speech.
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had 9. singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself ; his simple uni'ejgued honesty appeared to me more and more (every day,
",1 I hngnn many to 1an the (:mnlm'c; and on l1i$ sirlo. J believe, he lovcrl me
more than an)? itnms possible For him to ever love: my thing before.

I had v. mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to his own
cnnntxy again; and liming learned him English so well, that he could auswex me.
almost any qnegtinns, I asked him, whether the nation that he belonged to never
conquered in hnttle'.' At which he. smiled, and s:1id---" Yes, yes, we nlwnys fight,

{}u.,1)efter,"_7.lmt is, lit: meant, always <<,4. lhe hatter in fight -----tmd so we began

 

the. inilowing disuutuie:--"You a!" light. the better!" said I: "how came

 

 

yam in be taken prisoner, lhen, Friday .'

FRIDAY. My nation bent much for all that.

LIASTE'R. How heat? If your nation beat then, how came you to he taken?

FRIDAY, They mor. than my nation in the place where me was; they who
one, two, three, and me: my nation overheat them in the 'j'C-Tltie)' place, Wham me
no was: {here my nation take one, two great. thousand.

MASnm. But why did not your side recover you from the hnnds of your
enmnies then?

FRIDAY. They run one, two, three, and. me, and make go in the canoe, my
nation have no canoe that time. '

il'lns'rmt. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men they
take ? Do they carry them away, and eat them as these (lid 13

FRIDAY. Yen, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

MASTER. Where do they carry them?

FRIDAY. Go to other lilac-e where they think.

Mung. Do they co'me hither?

FRIDAY. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.

M .\$TER. Have you been here with them?

h'xmmv. Yes, I have been here. [points t9 the north-west side of the island,
which, it seems, was their side].

By this I understood, that my man Friday had formerly been among'the
sumgm who used to come on shore on the farther pint. of the island, on the said

 
 

man--eating oucasions that he was now bmught for; and some time- affer, when I

 
    

took the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I foimerly mentioned,
he presently knew the place) and told me, he was there once, when they ate up
twenty men, two women, and one child: he could not. tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them by laying so many stunez in a row, and pointing to me to tell
them over.

I have (old this passage because is introduces what follows, that aficl' I had
had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from our island to the
Slime,- and whether the canoes: were not oflen lost--~he told me flu-1'0. "'Al: no
danger, no czuiues ever lost; but. that. after a. liitle way out to sea, {here
was a current and a wind always one way in the morning, the other in the
afternoon.

This 1 understoocl to he. no more than the sets. of the title, as going out, or
coming in; but 1 afterwards understood it. was occasioned by the great draught
and reflux ol' lhc mighty river Groonoque, in the mouth of which river, as I
thought afterwards, our island lay: and that. the land which I perceived to the
west and north-west, was the. grant island. of 'l'riniclad, on the north point of the
mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
ixil)al>ite1fis,the sea, the. mast, and what nations were near--he told me all he
knew, withrhu greamst openness imaginable, I asked him the names of the several
nmions of this sort of pcuple, hm. could get no other name than Carihs; from
whence I easil}r understood, that: these were the Caribhecs, which our maps place
on that. part of America which reaches. from the. mouth of the river ()roonoqnc,
to Guinea, and onwards in St. Martha. He told me, that up a great way beyond
the moonwthntwas, beyond (he setting of the moon, which must be west. from
their coiniii'y----'liere dwelt whim-bearded man, like me, and pointed in my great
whiskers, which .1 mmitionetl heforc; and thal' Ihey had killed much mans-- that
"as his-word--ly'y which! I iuulerstootl he meant, the Spaniards, whose m'uelfies in
America had been spread over whole countries, and Were remembered by all the
nations from father to son.

I enquired if he could tell me how I night mane from this island, and get
among those white men; he told me, "Yes, yes, I might go into two canoe."

 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 

1 could. not imdm'stnnd what. he meant by two canoe; till at last, with great.
(infirmity, I lolunl he meant, that it. mus: he in a large great. boat as; hig as two
"11025.

This part of Fridaql's discourse hegon to relish with me very \vel! ; and from
this time I onlm'mined some hopes, that one lime or other I might find an
opportunity to make. my escape (mm this place, and that this poor savage. might
be a means to help me to (lo it.

During the long time that Friday haul now been "in. me, and that he hogan

i0 speak to me, I was not n'antix ; to lay a foundation of religious knowledge

 

203
 

in his mind; pumimxlm'ly I asked him one time, Who made him? The poor
creature did not understand me at all, but thought. I had asked who was his
father; butI took it by anothu: handle, and asked him, Who made the sea, the
ground he, walked on, and the hills and woods? He told me it was one old .
Benumuchcc, that lived beyond nil: he could describe nothing of this great
person, but that he was very old--much olrlcr, he said, than the sea or the land,
than the moon or the stars. I asked him than. if this old person had made all
things, wl ,r (lid not all things worship him? He looked very grave, and, with a
perfect look of innocence, said, All things said 0: to him. I asked him if the
people who die in this country went away any where? He said, Yes, they all
went to Beuomnchee. Then I asked him, whether those they eat up went thithci:
too? He. sairl, Yes.

me them things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true

 

God. I told him, that the- gi'eut Maker of all things lived there, pointing up
towards Heaven; that he governs the world by the same pmver and providence
by which he made it; thnt he was omnipoteut, could <<in every thing for us,
give every thing to us, take every thing from us: and. thus, by degrees, I
opened his eyes. He listened with gnaw attention, and received with pleasure
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent, to redeem us, and of illfi manner of
making our pi'aym's. to God, and his Ewing able to hear us, even in Heaven:
he told me. one day, that if our Gorl could hear us up beyond the sun, he must
needs he a grgatcr God than their Benmuuckee, who lived but 9, little way off,
and yet could not hear, till they went up to tho. great mountains, where he
dwolt, to sprak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither-to speak 1>> him?
Hr: said, "No, they never want that were yomig men; none wont thither but
the old man," whom he called their Oowookakee; that is, as I made him
explain it to me, their religious, or clerg ; and that. they went to say 0! (so
he called saying prayers) and then came hack, and told them what Benaniuchec
said. By this I observed that them is priostcral't even among the most blinded
ignorant Pagans in the world; and the policy of making a. smmt of religion,
in order to preserve the veneratioa of the people. to the clergy, is to be found
among all religions in the world, even among the most brntish and barbarous
savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told him, that
the pretence of their old man going up the mountain to any 0! to their god
Benamnckce, was a cheat; and their bringing word from thence what he said,
was much more so; that if they met with axiy'answcr, or spoke with any one
there, it must he with an evil spirit, and than i entered into a long discourse
with him about the devil, the original of him, his rebellion against Goal, his
enmity to man, the mason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he
made use (il' to (lclurlc mankind to their ruin; how he had a srrrct access to our
passions and (0 our attentions, to adapt hissnaroa so to our inclinations as to cause
us even to be our own tomptcrs, and to run upon our own destruction by our: own
choice.

I found it was not so easyto imprint right notions in his mind about the devil,

as it. was about, the being of a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence.
to llllll even the necessily of a great Final. Cause, and ova 'uling governing
Power, a secret. directing Providence, and the equity and justice of paying
homage to him that made us, and the like; but them appeared nothing of all this
in the notion of an evil spirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and, ahovo. all,
of his inclination to do evil, and to draw as in to do so (no: and the poor creature
puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and innocent,
that I scarce knew what to any to him.

I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipotence,
his dreadful aversion to sin, his being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity:
1'0": as he had made us all, he could dostrrgvvmg and all the world, in a moment ;
and lie listcnta'l with great seriousness to me all the while. After this, I had been
telling him how the. devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his
malim and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom
of Christ in the world, and the like. "W'ell," says Friday, "but you say God is
so strong, so great, is he not much strong, much might as the devil?"----"ch,
yes," said I, "Friday, God is swinger than the devil; God is ahore the. devil;ADl'ENTlllmS 01" ROBINSON C:

and therefore we prnj' to God to twad him umlm' our Feet: anrl enable us so resist
Igis' temptations. and quench his fiery (luts."----"But," says he again, "if God
much strong, much might, as the devil, why Gocl not kill the devil, so make him
m more wicked?" \

I was stmngely surprised at his qucsiion ; and, after all, L'nongh .l was. now :11:
old man; yet I was but a young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a ensuisi, or :1 $2
solver of difficulties: and, at first, I could nui. tell what to say; so I pl'elemlud
not to hear him, and asked him what he. said? But he. was too earnest for an
answer to Forget his question, so that. he repented it in {he very same broken
words as above: By this time. 1 had rccovemd myself a little, and 1 said, " God
will at last punish him seserely; he is reserved for the jmlgmnent, nnrl is to he
cm: into the bottomless pit to dwell with everlasting fires." This did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, "Reserve at lustl me no
understand: hut why not hill the devil now, not kill guest ago?"---"You may as.
well ask me," said 1, "why Cotl does not kill you and me, when we (lo wicked
things here that offend him: we are preserved to repent and he pardoned." He
muses 51 while <<if. this. "W'ell, well " 5:135 he, mighty affeartionntely, " that well ;

 

so you, I, deVil, all \\'iul\'('.(l, nil preserve, )'epant, God pardon all." Here 1 wns run
clown again by him to the last <1egme,nml il. was :1 testimonytu me, how the mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures 1'0 the knowledge
of God, and of :1 Worship or homage due to the supreme being 0!" God, as the

ledge of Jesus Christ, and of n_re<lemption purchased for 115; of 3 Mediator; of
a new covenant; and ol' an Intercesmr at the l'oolslool of God's throne--1 :

  

l
J
l
l
consequence of our nature, yet nothing but. divine revelation can l'onn the la: '~ -~ E
x - . u . u . /
nntmng but. a revelation from Heaven can lorm these m 1hc soul; and ihnt S

I
theml'ore the gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of '
Gm], and the Spirit ol' God, promised for the- gnide and snuctiliw: of his pc--o ' E

 

are the. absolutely necessary infll-i'uciors ol' the souls of men in the. inning
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present dis-comm bet-ween me and my man, rising '45

up hastily, :13 upon some sudden areasiou of going on" than sending him for
something a great way off, I seriously pinged w Gnrl that he would enable me
to instruct. sevingly this poor savage, assisting, by his Spirit, the heart. of (he

m5:-'-'"'SSzz:z'

poor ignorant creature to receive. the light of the knowledge of God. in Christ,

mwmwz; an

moonciling him in himself, and would gnitle me to speak so to him from the word
of God, as

    
  
  
 

 

 

a eonseionm might be convinced, his eyes opened, nncl his soul
saved, When he came again to me, I entered intu a long discum'se with him
upon sh: subject. of me redemption of man by the Saviour of the world, and of-
ihe doctrine of the Gospel preached. from 'Hcm'en, namely, of repentance

211-3;

. 3." H. mm>> M
"Managers? .hnehivemmivfi m; . egg:- r."-mmsm.mm~mu.n--aummmuzlz

W
'n:

  

ADVENTURES OF EOBLVSOX CRUSOE,

 

towards Goal, and faith in our blessed Lord J cans: I then mplniuwl to him, as
well as I could, why our blessed lietlmcmcr took no: on him le. nature of angels
but the seal. of Abraham, and how, for that mason, the fallen, angels llS.-.'l nu share
in she redempiion; that he came- only to the lost sheep of the hum-r: of Israel, and.
the like. -

1 had, Gail knowa, morn sincm'ity than knowludgc in all the methods I tool:
for this pow crcatare's instruction; and must achnmvle igu, when: l halievn all that
an: upon the same. principle will find, that in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructnd myself in many things that: either I did not know, 0,. had
not fully considered before, but which occnn'c:l naturally to my min-:1 upon my

 

afiection in my enquiry after things upon thiaoccasion than over I felt before, so
that, whet-her this poor wild. \TL'OlQ-ll was the better for me or nn, I haul great
reason to be thankful t-lzsl' over ha came {a me. My grief sat lighter upon me,
mylmhilaiion grew coinfin'l'ahlo to me beyond measure ; and when I reflected that
in this solilm'y life, which 1 had been confined to, I had not only been moved
myself to look up to I'Inaven, and to seek to the haml that brought me thither,
but was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to saw the life, and,
I'm- might. I know, the svnl, of a poor sax-age, and bring him to the two knowledge
(if religion and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ, Jesus, to
know whom is life eternal--1 say, when I reflector-l upon all these things, a secret
joy ran through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place, which I had often thought the most. dreadful of all nllliutious
that could. possibly have licfallcn me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time, anzl the
conversation which employer! the hours hctwcrm Friday and me was such as
made the three years which we lived there together, perfectly and completely
happy, if any such thing as complete happineSS can he found in a aubluuarysmco.
The savage was now a. good Olnrisiiau, a. much honor than I; though I have
reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we view equally pauitent and comforted,
restored penitunts. We had here the word of God to read, and no farther off
from his Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England.

I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, and to let him know as well
as! could the meaning of what I read; and he again, by his sci-ions enquiries
and questions, made me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture
knowledge, than I should ever have been by my own private reading. Another
thing I cannot refmin from observing here also from experience, in this retired
part of" my life; namely, how infinite and inoxpressiblo a blessing it is, that the
knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of Salvation by' Christ Jesus, is so plainly

     
   
 

mg;

 

..'_--
Vii"

1..
yaw-

    
   

--M

.;_aW.H--~ 41;;-

f'efifllaid down in the word of God, so easy to he received nnd understood, that 515 the
bare vending the Scripture iuado me capable of understanding enough of my duty
to carry me directly on to the great work of sincere mpentauce for my sins, and
laying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a. stated neformntion of practice,
and obedience to all God's aommnnds, and this without any toneher or instructor
(I mean human) ; so the plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening
this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian, as I have known
few equal to him in my life.

As to the disputes, wrangling!>> strife, and contention, which hare happened
in the world about religion, whet-her nineties in doctrines, or schemes of church
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, as, for might. I can yet see, they
have been to all the rest in the world. We
had the sure guide to Heaven, namely, the
Word of God; and we had, blessed be God!
comfortnhlc views of the Spirit of God,
teaching and instructing us by his word,
leading us into all truth, and. making us both
willing and obedient to the instruction of his
word; and I cannot see the least use that the.
greatest knowledge of the disputed points in
religion, which have made such confwsions in
the world, would have been to us, if we could
have obtained it. But I must go on with ,
the historical part. of things, and take every
part in its order.

After Friday and I become more intimately
acquainted, and that he mold understnnd
almost all I said to him, and speak fluently,

though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story, or at
least. so much of it as related to my coming into this place; how I had lived there,
and how long: I let him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of gunpowder
and bullets, and taught him how to shoot: I gave him a knife, which he was
wonderfully delighted with ; and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangersin; and in the frog, instead of a lmnger, I
gave him a hotelier, which was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but
much more useful upon many occasions.

I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly England, Which
I came from: how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
_ ____ .9--

nccmmt of the wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him, as near as
I could, the place where she lay; but. she was all beaten in pieces long before,
and quite gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escape-:1, and
which I could not stir will) my whole strength than, hut. was now l'flllen uhnos' all
to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing u are." while, and said
nothing; 'I asked him what it was he studied upon. A? hi
such bunt like come to place at my mtixm."

 

{ says ho, "Me flee

 

I did not understand him a from! while: but :15. last, when I had examined
further into it, I understood by him that a bout, such as that had been, cnmv. ml
shore upon the country where he li\'ed~--that is, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of' weather. l presently ixuagtl'inell that some European Ship must
have been cast. away on their coast, and the boat might; get loose, and drive
ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought of men making escape from a
wreck thither, much less whence they might come--~50 I only enquired after a

description of the boat.
2'73
 

Friday describt-d the boat to me well enough; but brought me better to
undmsmud him, when he added, with some warmth, "We save the white
mm; from drown." Then I present];' asked him, if there were any white
mans, as he cnllell them, in the boat? " Yes," he said, "the_ limit full of
"'Lit/J mans." I anlmtl him, how many? He told upon his fingers sex'cntemi. I
asked him, what hecnuie of them? He told me, "They live, they dwell at my
nation."

This put new thoughts into my head again; for I presently imagined, that
these might he the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in sight of my
island, at>>. I now called it; and who, of r ihe ship was struck on the rock, and
the}: saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed
upon that wild shore among tho savages.

Upon this I enquired of him more critically, what was become of them?
I-ln assured me they lived still there, that they had been there about four years,
that the savage>> let them alone, and gave them victmds to live. I asked him how
it came to pass they (lid not kill them, and eat them? He said, "' No, they make
brother with them,"-- that is, as I understood him, a truce : and then he added,
"They eat. no mans but when make the war liglli,"---tlist is to say. they never
mt any men, but such as come to fight. with them, and ma taken in battle.

It was after this some considomhlo time, that being on tho top of the hill, at
the east side of the island, from whence, vs I have said, I had in a clear any
discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the wcneher being very
serene, looks very earnestly towards the mainland, and, in a. kind of surprise, falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance from him ;
.l asked him what wns the matter? " 0h, joy I" says he, " 0h, glad i (here see
my comitry, there my nation 1"

I observed an extraordinary sense of lileasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his comitenance discovered n strange eagerness as if he hml

n mind to he in his own country again; and this observation of mine put it great

many thoughts into me, which made me at. {list not so easy about my new man
Friday as .[ was before; and I. made no doubt. hat- that 51" Friday could get back
to his mm nation, he would not only forgot all his religion, but all his obligations
to me; and would he forward enough to give his countrymen an account of mo,
and come back, perhaps, with an hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as housed to he with those of his enemies,
when they were taken in war. _

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for which I was very
sorry nfterwmls ; however, as my jealous-y incmnsod, and held me some weeks,
I was a little more circumspect and not so familiar and hind to him as before;
  

in which I was certainly in the wrong too, the honest grateful cranium having
no thought. about it, hut what consisted of the best principles, both as a.
religious Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction.

Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may he sure I was every day pumping
him, in see. if he would discover Amy of the new thought-s which I smpecicd
were in him; but I found everything he said was so honest: mid so innocent,
that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and in suit/,1 ol' all my
uneasiness, he. made me at last. entirely his own again--nor did he in the least
perceive that. I was mieasy----- and therefore I could not mined him (if doncit.

One day, walking up the some hill, hut the weather being hazy m. sea, so that
we could not we the continent, I called to him, and said, "' Friday, do not. you

   

, roux: own naiion'i"~--" Yes," he said, " I be
much 0 glad w he at my own nntion,"----"Whah would you do there. '3" said I ;
"would you turn. wild again, out men's llesh again, and lac a savage as you were
before?" He looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said, "No, no!
Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to cm. mrn brand,
cattle flesh, milk, no out mam ngszin."----" VThy, than," said I in him, "they will
kill you l" He looked grave m, that, and then said, "No, they no hill me;
they will- .g love learn,"~hc meant by this, they would be willing to learn. 11h:

 

wish yourself in your own muntry

added, Lhcy learned much of the. bearded man: that; came in the boat. Then I
nslml him it' he would go hack to them? He smiled at. ilmt, and told inc he
could not swim so fur. I told him I would make. a. some for him. He. told me
he would go, if I would go with him."----" I go?" said 1, "why, they will out.
me if I come there-l"--"No, nol" says he, "me. make them no eat you, me
make they much lo'yc yO'lilhhc mount he: would tell them how I hurl killed his
enemies and saved his life, and so he would make them love me. 'l'lmn he told
me how hind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called
them, who came. on shore in distress.

From this time, Iconicss, I had aniind to venture over, and see if I could
powihly join with these lmm'dcd men, who, I made no doubt, were Spmiisrds or
Purtug'twse ; not doubting hut, ii' I could, we might find some method to escape
from thence, lining upon the continent, and a good company together, hotter than
I could from an island forty miles off the shore, and alone without help. So, after
some day, I took Friday to work ngnin, by way of discourse, and told him I
would give him a boot to go back to his own nation; and accordingly, 'I carried
him to my frigate, which lay on the other aide of the island; and having cleared
if. 0!" water (for I always kept. it. sunk in the water), I brought it out, allowed it
him, and we both want into it.

2 l I

SS:

c:

'Irrs--m>>

Age/v.2,>> wmmmmm

me-

    

  

"'Z'A.4. . .- ' .- -w .. 41/41 "2,, .-f"
$19,173:..me ,. . .. mung?>> mg?) or

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CBUSOE.

 

I found he was a most dcxterons fellow at managing it, would nmkc it. go
almost as swift and first again as I could; so when he was in, I said to him,
" Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very (hill at
my saying so, which it seems was because he thought the boat too small to go
no Far. I told him than I had as bigger; so the next clay I went to the place
where the limb boat lay which 1 haul made, bill, which 1 could not: get into the
water: he said that was big nnnugh; but than, as I hurl taken m) cm" of it, and
it had lain two or three-mid-twcnty years there, the sun had so split. and dried
it, that it. was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such n boat would do very
well, and would carry "much enough i'iltle, drink, bread"-- that was his way of
talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this Lime so fixed upon my design of going over
with him to the continent, that I told him we would go nnd make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very
grave and sad. 1 nskcd him, what was _thc martin: with him? He risked me
again, thus, "Willy you angry mad with Friday? what me. done?" I asked him,
what he meant? I told him I was not. angry with him 3!. all. "No angry! no
angry!" says he, my: siting the words smeml times; "why semi Friday home
away to my nation 'i"-----"V'Vli}'," said 1, " li'rirlny, (lirl you not. say you wislmrl you
were ihcrc'?"--" Yes, yes

 

ays he, "' wish be both there; no wish Friday; there,
no master them." In a won-l he woulvl not think of going there without me. " I.
go there, Friday!" said 1; "what, shonlrl l (in Hun-e?" He. turned very quick
upon me at this. "You do gmat deal much good," says. he; "you teach wild
mans be good, sober, tame mans; you. tell them know God, pray God, and lire
new life." "Alas, Frixhn' " said I, " thou lmou'est not what- thou sayest; I am but
an ignorant maul niyaelf."----"Ye.s, yes," says he, "you leeches me good, you
teechee them good."---":\b, no, Friday," said I, "you xhall go without me; leave
me here to live by myself, as I did before." He. looked confused again at that
wood, mud-running to one ol' the hamlxeLs which he used to wear, he takes it up
hastily, and gives it me. "What must I do with this?" said I lo him. "You take
hill Friday," says he. " Winn. must. I kill you for?" said I again. He returns
very quick, " What you send Friday away for? 'J.':ikt~. kill Friday, no send Friday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw hears stand in his eye-s. In a. word,
I so plainly discovered the utmost all'eclion in him to me, and a firm rosoluiion in
him, that I told liim than, and often lifter, that I would not send him away from
me, if he was willing to stay will: me.

Upon the whole, as I found. by all his discourse n settled affection to me,
and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all the foundation of
his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the people,
an:ADVEXTURTT-S ()h' liOulLVSUN (5131:5015.

and his hopes of my doing them {$04--11 thing which, as I had no notion of ,
myself, so I had not the least thought, \u' intention, or desire of umlefiulsiug it. ' '
But still I found .1 strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, kl

~ fix

them were seventeen bearded men there; and thcrcihrc, without delay 1 went
to work with Friday, to find out. a great. tree proper to fell, and make a large
pcriagun, or came, to undertake the- voyuge. There were trees enough in the. ;

founded on the supposition gathered from the former discourse--namely, that E);

island to have. built a little fleet, not of periaguas and canoes only, but of good
large vessels: but the mnin thing I looked at, was to get one so near the water
that we might lmmch it. when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first. '

At his: Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much hatter than I
what kind of "and was fittest for it; nor can I tell to ihis rlny "hat. wood tn

 

call the tree we cut down, except that it was vexy like the tree we call fnstic, 1>>

   

or between that and Lha Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and
smell. Friday was for burning the hollow 01' caviiy of this tree out, to make it 3,}
into a boat: but I showed him how rather to cut it out with tools, which, after I
showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in about, a monthis hard labour

we finished it, and made it very handsome, especially when, with our axex, which
I showed him how to handle, We cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of

a hoax. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as ,4

it. were, inch by inch, upon grant rollers, into the \vui/e'; but when she was in
?

she would have carried twenty man with great ease. {A

When she was in the water, and thong 1 she was so big, it amazed me to 5m"

'5 .
 

 

with what dexterity, and how swift my man Friday could numage her, turn her,
and paddle her along; so I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over
in her? "Yes," he said, "he venture over in her very well, though great blow
wind." However, I had a further design which he knew nothing of, and that
was, to make a most and sail, and to {it her with an anchor and cable. As to a.

 

maet,that was easy enough 10 get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar
tmc, which I found near the place, and which there was: a great plenty of in
the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him diroclions
how (0 Shape and order it: but. as to the sail, that. was my pariiculnr care; I
knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old sails, uuough; but, as I had had
them now twang-ash: years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for them, i did not
doubt but that they were all rotten-<<and, indeed, mod; of them were so;
however, I found two pieces which appeared pr ' good, and with these I went
in work, and with a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may
he sum) for want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing, like

 

what we call in England a shoulderof-mutton sail, in go with a boom at bottom,
and a little short split 9:. lhe top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with,
and such as T best knew how to mammge; because it- was such a one as I used
in the boat in which I made my escape from Harbor ', as related in the first part
of my story. ,

l was near two months Pin-forming this last- work, namely, iiging and
(it-ling my masts and sails; for I finished them very complete, making 7; small
stay, and a sail or fornsail to it, to assist if we should turn to windward; and
which was more than nll, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with; and
l-hOuf'l I was but: a bungling shipwright, yet as I know the usefulness, and
even necessity, of such a thing, I applied myself with eo much pains in do i 1:, that
at. last I brought it to pasa, though, considering the man}: dull mnlrivanees,
I had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as making); the
boat.

After all this was done, Iliad my man Friday to teach us to what belonged
to the navigation of my boat; for though he know very well how to paddle the
canoe, he knew nothing what. belonged to a. sail and a rudder, and was the
more amzmed when he so"; me work the bout to and again in the son by the
rudder, and how the sail gibbetl and filled this way or that. way, as the mum we
sail changed--~I say, when he. saw this, he. stood like one astonished and amazed:

.lmwever, with a. we use, i made all these things familiar to him, and he became
an expert snilor, except (hm. as to the compass 1 could make him understand
"011'" "(do "1' that: on the. other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,

21-;
and seldom or never an}' fogs, in those part-54, there wns the less occasion for n
compass, seeing the stem; were always seen by night, and the shore by day,
except in the rainy seasons: rmd thou nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land
or 568'

I was now entered on the nernn-snd-twentieth year of my captivity in this
plnm: though the three last years that I hnd this creature: with me ought rather
to he left out of the amount, my habitation being quite of another kind than in
all the rest of my time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here. with the same
thnnkfiilness to God for his mercies as at: I at; and if I had such cause of
aelrnowledgement at. first, I had much more so now, having such additional
testimonies of the cam of Providence over me, and the great hopes I hnd of being
efl'getuslly and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my
thoughts that my deliverance was nt. hand, and that I should not, be another year
in this plume. I'Iowei'er, I went on with my husbandry, digging, planting, and

 

fencing, as usual; I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every~ necessary
thing, as before.

The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when I kept more within
doors than at other times; so I stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
hringing her up into the creek, where, as I snid in the beginning, I lnndod my
mile from the ship; and hauling her up to the share, at high water mark, I made
my man Friday dig a little (lock, just big enough for her to float- in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
water out; and so she lay dry as to the tide, from the son; and, to keep the rain
olT', we laid a great many boughs of trees so thick, that: she was: as well illnit'ltetl
as aliousc ; end thus we waited for the months of Norunher and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought. of my design
returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the
first thing I did was to lay up at certain quantity of provision, being the store for
the voyage, and intended in a week or fortnight's time, to open the duck and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when
I called Friday, and bade him. go to the sea-shore and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, n thing which we generally got once n-weeh, for the sake of
the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone when he came
running hack, and flew over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground or the steps he set. his foot on; and before I had time to spank to him, he
cried out to me, "Oh, master! Oh, sorrorr! 0h, had!" "What's the matter,
Friday?" said I. " Oh, yonder, there," says he, "one, two, three, canoe! one,
two, threel" By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but on
 

enquiry, I found there were. but three. "Well, Friday," said 1', "dc not be
frighten ;" so I hearicncd him up as well as I could. IIowei-'er, I saw the poor
fellow was mmt terribly scared; for nothing ran in his head but that they wove
coma in look for him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him. The poor fellow
trembled so, that. 1 source knew what to do with him. I onml'ox'bed him as well
as 1 could, nnd told him [ Wm: in as much (lnngcr as he, and that they would eat
me as well as him. "But," said I, "Friday, we must msaive to fight them; can
you fight, Friday ?"-- " Mo shoot,' says he, " but there come many great"
nuiuher."--"No matter: for Hun," said I ngnin; "our guns will fright thcm Illflt
we do not kiil." So I asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stain] by me, and do just. as I bade him? Ho said, "Me die
when you laid die, master." So I went and fetched a. goad drmn of mm, and
gave. him; fur 1 had been so good a husband of my mm that. I had a great deal
lei}. When he had drunk it, I made him take the two fowling-yieres which we

 

always carried, and load them with large swan--shut as big as small pistol-hullcts;
then I look Four muskuis and landed them with two slug}: and five small bung";
('Slnh : and my two pistols I loaded with n brace of bullets each--I hung my Swat
sword, as usual, naked hy my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

"'hcn T had thus prcpnrccl myself, I took my perspective glass, and went up
to the side of the hill 1.0 see what I could discover; and I found quickly, by my
glass, that there were onc-nnd-tweniy savage-s, three prisoners, and three cnnocs ;
and tlmt their whole business seemed to he the iriumphmxk banquet upon lllese
three human bodies--a barbarous feast, imlcnrl, hut nothing more than, as I had
observed, was usual with them.

I ohservetl also that they were landed, not where they had done when
Friday mmha his escape, but nearer to my; creek, where the shore was low, and
whom 51. thick wood mmo chm: almost down to the sen--this, with the abhorrence
of the inhuman errand those wmtches came about, so filled me with indignation,

2n;that I mime (lawn main to Friday, and told him I was resolved 'to go down to
them and kill them all, and asked him if he would sun-Kl by me. He was now
gotten over his l'righfi, and his Spirits being a little raised by the dram I had

given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as befure, he would die when I
bid tile.

In this fit of fury, I tool: limt and divided the arms, which I had charged, as
heFm-e, between us: I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and threu

I i [Thu mm: on the Humans]

gum upon his shoulder, and 1 took one pistol and the 'other three myself; and in

this posture we marched out. I tool: a small bottle of mm in my pocket, gml'

gave Friday Marge hug with more powder and bullets; and as to 01111513,]? charged
t him to keep close behind me, and not'go stir, shoot, or do anything till I bade
.. him; and, in tho meantime, not. to speak award. In this posture I fetched a
 

 

 

 

 

 

compass to my right hand of near a. mile, as well to get over the creel; as to get
into the "-004; 5., that I might. comp. williin shot of them before I could ha
discovered, which I had seen by my glass if. was easy to do.

While I was making this much, my former thoughts returning, I began to
abate my resoluticnv--I do not mean that I eutoi'tainod any fear of their number;
for as they were naked and unarmed wretches, it is eel/min I was aapei'ior to them,
my, though '1 had been clone -----but it occurred to my thuug'lila, what call, what
occasion, mnch less what necessity, I was in to go and dip my izsnda in blood----
to attack people who had neither done now: intended me {my wrong, who, as :0 me,
were innocent, and whose barbarous cuslmns were their own disaster, lacing in
them a token indeed of God's having left, them, with the other naiions of that
part of {he world, in such. stupiniily :md to such inhuman causes; but did not can
mo minke upon me to be a judge of their nations, much less an executioner of
his juitice; that whenever lac thought fit, he would take the cause into his own
hands, and by national vengeance punish them for national crimes, but that, in
the meantime, it was none of my business--that it was trnc, Friday night juslii'y
it, because ho was a declarod enemy, and in a state of war with those very par--
ticular people, and iv; \vas'lsxwful for bimjo attack them; but I 0311ch not say the
some with respect to me. These fixings were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts
all the way as I weak, that I resolved I would only go to place myself near them,
that I might observe their bm-hawuas least, and that I would act then as God
should direct; but that, unless something offened that. was more a call to me (ham
1 yet knew of, I would not meddle with them.

With this mso'mtio'n I entered the wood, and, wiflx all possible warlncss and
silence (F riday {allowing close at my heels), I marched till I came to the shirt
of tho wood, on the side which was next them--only lhai. one corner of the
wood. lay between me and than--here I called softly to Friday, showing him
Is great tree which was just. at the corner of the wood; I bade him' go to the
tree, and bring me word if he could. see there plainly wlmt. they were doing:
he did so, and came immediately hawk to me, and told me they might he plainly
viewed there; that they wexe all ahom: the fire, eating the flesh of one of their
prisoners; and that another lay hound upon the sand, :1. little from them, whom
he said they would kill next, and which fired the very soul within me. He
told me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men whom he
had told mu of, who came. to their country in the hunt. I was filled with
horror st me very naming the white bearded man, and, going to the tree, I
saw plainly by my glass, 3 white maul, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with
his hands and his feet. tied with flags, or. things like rushes; and that he was a
European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree; and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer so them than the place where I was, wliiclnhy going a. littleway about
I saw I might come at undiscovered, and. that then I should be within half shot.
of them; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged to {he higliexl:
degree, and going back about twemy paces, T. got behind some buxixeg which held
all the way till I came to the other tree, and then I came to a little rising
gmnnd, which gave mo. n full view of them, at the distance ol' nbnnt eighty
yards.

I had now not a moment to lose; for niunllrcn ol' the dreadful wretvhes sat
"yon the. ground all chm: huddled wgetliex, and had just. sent the other two to
butcher the pew: Christian, and. bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their fire;
and they were stemmed down to unfit: the hands at. his feet. I turned to Friday:
"Now, Friday," said I, " do as I hid thee." Friday said he would. " T hon,
Friday," said i, " do exactly :2: you see me (10; full in nothing." So I set. down
one of the musicals and llu': fowling--piece upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at (he snvagszs, bidding him
do the like. Then, asking him il' he was ready, he said, " Yes."--"len lire at
them," said I; and the some moment I fired also.

Fridhy tool: his aim so much better than I, that on the. side that he shot, he
killed two ol' them, and womiclcd three men; and on my side, I killed one and
wcundcd Lwo. They were, you may he sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all
of them who were not hurl, jumped up uyun their feet immediately, hut (lid not
know which way to run, 01: which way to luck; for they knew not from whence
their deslzcuclion came. Frillsy kept his eyes close nlmn me, that, as I lmd
bid him, he, might observe what I did: so as soon as the first shot was made,
I threw down the piece, and took up the fowlil deco.) and Friday did the
like; he sees me cock and present--<<he did. the same again. "Are you Nady,
Friday i" said I. " fen," says. he. "Let fly, than," Enid I, "in the mum: of
Gm g" and with that i fimd again among the amazed xvrclchcs, and so (lid
Friday; and us our pieces were now loaded with what I called swan shot, or

 

small yistul hullcls, we found only two drop; but so many were Wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably
wounded most of them; whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite
dead.

"Now: Friday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces, mid taking up the
musket which was yet loaded, " follow me," midi--which he did with a. (lcnl of
sewage ; upon which 'I rushed out of the wood, and showed myself and Friday
close at my foot: as soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
ceuld, and. hsdc Friday do so too; and running a; fast as I could, which by the
219
 

 

  

$3 Way was not very hut, being loaded wi . :u-ms as I was, I made directly towards
/ the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the bench or shore, between the
plaice where they sat and the San ; the two butchers who were just going to work
with him, had left him at, tho surpriese of our first fire, and fled in a terrible flight
to the sen-side, and had jumped into << cunochand three more of the, rcst'miule the
same way. I turned to Friday, and [Jude him step i'omvnrds, and fire at. them; he
understood mo. immediately, and running about forty yards Ln be. near them, he
shot at them, mid I thought he had killed them all; furl saw them all fall on a
, 33' heap into the boat-- though I saw two of them up again quickly-- however, he
killed two of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay clowii in the bottom of
the boat, as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife, and cut the flags
that bound the poor victim; and, loaf '

   

 

Chr'i'sta'anua; but was so weal: and faint, that he could mares stand or speak. I
took my bottle out. of my povket, and gave it him, making signs that. he should
drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread. which he ate: then I
'asked him what countijyman he was? and he said, "Espngnolef' and, lining a.
little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could pegsibly make, how much
he was in my debt for his deliverance. " Sciguor," said I, with am much Spanish
as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards, but we must light how: if you
have any strength left, take. this pistol and sword, and lay about. you :" he took
them very- thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they
had put new vigour into him, he'llew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut

1 PS3" 22:)mnu'mm " -

 

  
  

".ue'n. "jg-m a"-.. . .. .m::;". aim

A I) YEN THRES 0F ROBIN SON CRL'SOI'I.

two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole was a snrprise
to them, so the poor creatures were so much frighted with the noise of our pit-ices,
that they fell down for more amazement aid fear, and had no more power In
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist one shot---- and that was
the case of'those. five. that Friday shot in the hunt; for as three of them fell with
the hm': they received, so the other two l'ell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still. without fir.

 

being willing to keep my
clmrgo madly, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and word; so I called

 

to Friday, and bade him run up to the lime from \i'lK'ncc we first fired, and fetch
the arms which lny there, that had been discharged, which he did with great.
swiftness; and than, giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest
agniii, and bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading those
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one (of (heir great wocdcn sn'orda, the same.
weapon that was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it: the Spaniard,
who was as bold and brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this
Indian :1 good while, and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
garage, being a. stout lusty fellow, closing in with him, haul thrown him (lonn
(being faint), and was wringing my sword out of his hand, when the Spaniard,
though untleruiost, wisely quitting his sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot
221

'iza-'_"'!>>'s3;~~'"" " -- ' "'

 

niggfi thaw?"

 

 

, #24:.
the savage through the body, and. killed him upon the spot, before I, who was
running to help, would come near him.

Eidny being new lei! at his liberty, pursued the flying wretchns with no
weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and wilh that he desputched those three,
who, as I snid before, were wounded at first and fallen, and all She rest he
could come up with: and the Spaniard coming to me fou- 9. gun, I gave him
one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both; but, as he was not eble to run, they both got from him
into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of them; but tho
other was too nimble for him;laud, though he was wounded, yet he plunged
into the sen, and swam with all his might m"? to those who were left in the canoe;
which three in the. canoe, with one wounded, who we knew not; whether he died or
no, were all that escaporl our hands of one-mid-hr'enty. The account of the rest
is as follows--Three killed at our first shot from the tree; two kil'zecl at tle
next shot; two killed by Friday in the hoot-5 we killed by Friday, of those at
first wounded ; one killed by Fn'dag in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard;
four killed, being found dropped here and there, of the wounds, or killed by
Friday in his chase of them ; . l'our escaped from the boat, whereof one wounded,
if not deszl--iweni-y-one in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get exit of gmnflllot; and though
Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find that he hit. any of them.
Friday would fsin have made me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and,
indeed,l was very anxious nhont their escape, lest, carrying the news home to
their peopie, they should come buck, perhaps, with two or three limidred of their
canoes, and devour us by men: multitudes; so I consented to pursue them by sea;
nml, running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me;
but, when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie
there alive, hound hand and foot, as the Spaniard mm, for the slaughter, and
almost dead with fear, not. knowing what the matter was; for he had not been
able to look up over the side of the boat: he was tied so hard, neck and heels,
and had been tied so long, that he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had bound him
with, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or speak, but
growled most piteously, believing, it- seems, still that he was only unbound in
order to he killed.

When Friday came to him, I hnde him spunk to him, and tell him of his
deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wreteh n drum,
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he ssh up in the
boat; but, when Friday came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would
 

 

 

have moved any one in tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, lauglml, hallooml, jumped about, danced, sang, then cried
again, wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then sang and jumped
about like a distrncmd creature. It was a good while before I could make him
31,331.; to me, or tell me what. was the matter; hnt when he came a. liiele to himself";
he told me that it whs his father. V

It was no: easy for me to express how it moved me, to see what ecstacy and
filial ufi'cctiou had worked in this poor image, at. the eight of his father, and
(if his being delivered from death; nor indeed can 1 describe half the extrava-
gmccs of his afiectiea after this; far he went into the boat and out of the hue. a
great many times; when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his
breast, and held his father's head close in his bosom, hali' an hour together, to
nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff with
the binding, and charm] and rubbed them with his: hands; and I, pcl'ceh'ing what
the case was, gave him some rum out 01' my braille to rub them with, which did
them a. great deal of good.

This action put an and to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were not? gouen almost out of sight: and it was happy fur
us that we did not; for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could he gotten a. quarter of their way, and continued blowing so
hard all night, and that from the north west, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their boat could live, or that; they ever reached to their own
wash

But to return to Friday. He was so bury about his father, that I could net
find in my heart-to take him on' for some time; but after I thought he could
leave him Mil-Lie, 1 called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and
plensod in the highest extreme. Then I asked him il' he had given his father
any brand? He shook his head, and said, "ch10: ugly dog eat all up self."
So I gave him a. mice of bread out of a lirlle youch I carried on purpose; I also
gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it Lohis father:
1 had in my pocket, also, two or three'bunches of my raisins, so I gave 1::
handful of them for hi: father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins,
but I saw him come out of the boat, and ran away as if lac had been bewilched.
He mu at- such a rater--for he was the swiilcst fellow of his feet that ever I
saw--I say, he ran at such a mic, that he was cut of right, as it were in an
instant; and though I called, and hallooed too, aller him, it: was all one: awny he
went, and in a. quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast
as he went ; and as he came nearer, I found his pncc was slacker, because he had
something in his hand.
W'hen he came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen jug,

A or pot, to bring his fatllcl' some fresh water; and that he had got two more cakes,

or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his father:

however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived

his father more than all the rum or spirits 1 had given him; for he was just
hinting; with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called him, to know if there was any water left.
He said, "Yes;" and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his father; and I sent. one or the ('fllmfl that Friday brought
to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing'himself upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree, nnd whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tievl with. 'When I saw
that upon F riday's coming to him with the water, he sat up and drunk, and tool:
the bread, and began to eat, I wont to him, and gave him a handful of raisins :
he looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that
could appear in any countenance; but was so wank, notwithstanding he had so
exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand upon his foot; he tried to do
it two or three times, but really was not able, his ankles went so swelled and so
painful to him ; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and
bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.

I ohaerverl the poor affectionate mention, every two minutes, or perhaps less,
all the while he was here, turned his head about, to see if his father was in the
some place. and posture as he left. him sitting; and at last. he found he was not
to be seen; at which he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiflnest: to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to wuoh the ground
9.9 he went; but when he come, he only found he had laid himself down to ease
his limbs: so Friday came back to me presently, and I then spoke to the
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and
then he should carry him to our dwelling, who're I would Lake cure of him, but
Friday, a. lusty young fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the boat, and set him down Softly upon the aide or gnunel of
the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted them quite in, and set.
him close to his father, and presently stepping out again, launched the boat off,
and paddled it along the shore faster than 1 could walk, though the wind blew
pretty hard too : so he brought them safe into our creek; and leaving them in the
boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and
asked him whither he went? He told me, "Go fetch more book" so away
he went, like the wind; for sure never man or horse ran like him, and he had
the other canoe in the creek almost- as soon as I got to it. by land; so he waited,_ ,_ ._',____. _._.._.

. '7.mvn.wmmns on ROBINSON (:xusum'

 

me over, and then went to help our new gum-ts out of the hunt, which he did,
hut they were neirh'cr of them <<Hi: to walk ; so that pom.- Friday knew not, what
to do. .

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, nml mdling to Friday to bid
them sit down on Um bank whiic he. came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-
bax'row to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them up both together upon
it between us: but when we got 'Ihem to the Outside of our Wu" or fortification,
we were at a worse loss than before; for ii. was imposaible to get them over,
and I was resolved not to break in down: so 1 set to work ngn'm ; and Friday
and I, in aboug two hour=' time, made a. very handsome tent, covered with 0M
sails, and above that with bonghs of trees, being in the syace without our on:-

a..__.4.'_deg__.v_ .4

 

\vmfl fence, and between flan: and the grove of young wood which I had
planted: and here we made two beds of such things as I had; namely, of good
rice-straw, with blankets-laid <<upon it to lie on, and another to cover them on
each bed.

{v My island was now peopled, and I fllongkt myself very rich in subjects; and 1' 2

<<I

'2 it was a umn'y reflection which I frequently madc-- how like a king I looked;

   

g.

l

I

.
 

 

 

first, ofall, the whole canntyry was my own xnene properly, so that I had an un-
doubted right of dominion: secondly, my people were perfectly subjected; I was
ahsohize lord and ism-giver; they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, ii there had been occasion for it for me; it was remarkable too,
I had but three subjects, and, they were of three different religions. My man
Friday was a Protestant, his father a. Pagan and a cannibal> and the szuiiarcl was
a Pnpist: however, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my rlaminions;
but this by the way.

A; man as I had secured my two weal: rescued prisoners, and given them
shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think of 'making some
Provision for them : and the first thing 1 did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling
goat, betwixt a. kid and a goat, oul: of my particular flock, to he. killed: then I
cut off the hind quarter, and chopping it. into small pieces, I set lf'i'itiay to work.
to boiling and slewing, and made them a very good. dish, I assure you, of flesh
and broth; and as I cooked. it without, doors (for I made no fire within my inner
wall), having; put some barley and rice also into the broth; so I carried it
all inio the new tent; and having set a table there fur them, I sat down and
ale my dinner also with them: and, as well as I 'could, cheered them and
encouraged them, Friday being my interpreter, especially to his father, and.
indeed io the Spaniard loo ; for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages
pretty well.

After We had dined, or rather Slipped, I ordered Friday to take one of the
canoes, and go and fetch our musicals nnd other the arms, which for want of time,
we had led upon the place of 'battlo; and the next day I ordered him to go and
bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay oyen lo the sun, and wunld
presently he offensive; and I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
bxrlyamns feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which I could not Lhinl: of
doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way: all which
he punt-Emily perfouned, and defaced the very appearance of the savages being
there; no that when I went again, I cenld acarco know where it was, otherwise
than by the corner of the wood 1min Ling to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new subjects;
and first, 1 506 Friday to enquire of his father, what he thought of the escape of
the savages in that canoe? and whether we might expect 2\ return of them
with a power too great for us to resist? His first. opinion was, that the savages in
the boat never could live out; the storm which blew that night they went all] but
must of necessity he drowned or driven south to those other shores, where they
were as sure to be devoured as they were to he drowned if they were cast away;
but as t9 what they would do if they mme safe on shore, lie said he knew not;

2526i > '

ADVENTURES OJ! ROBIKSON CRUSOE.

but i r. was his opinion, Ihnt they were no dreadfully frighbed with the manner of
being attached, the noise and the fire, that he. believed they would tell their people
they were all killed by thunder mid lightning, and not by the hand of man ; and
that the two which appeared (namely, Friday and 1,) were two heavenly spirils or
{mes come down to dostmy them, and not men with weapons. This, he said, he
liners because he liemd them all cry out so in thoer language to one mother; for
it war impossible for them to coucoive that, a man should dnrt fire, and speak
thunder, and hill at a distance, without; lifting up the hand, as was done now.
And this old sarsge was in. the right: for, as I understood since, by other hands,
the savages of that. purl never attempted to go over to the island afterwards. 'J'hcy
Wcro so terrified with the accounts given by these four men (For it seems they did
escape the son), that they believed, whoever went to that enchanted island, would
ho desimycxl with fire from the gods.

This, however, T. lmosv not, and theml'ore was under continual uppmlzensicns
for ugeod while, and kept always upon my guard, I and all my army; for as
there were new four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them fairly
in the open field at any time.

Ina little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their coming
worn off ; and I hegzm to take my former thoughts of n voyage to the main into
consideration, being likewise assured by Friday's father, that. I might- depend
upon good triage from their nation on his account, if I would go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had a serious discourse with
the Spaniard, and when I understood, that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who having been cast away, and made their escape to that
side, lived there at peace indeed with the snvngcs, but were very sore put to
it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their
voyage; and found they weir. a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio do In Plato to
the l-lavanna, being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides
and silvor, and to bring back what European goods they could meet with there;
that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of another:
mock; that five of their own men were drowned when first the ship was lost;
and that thew escnped through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived almost
starved on the cannibal coast, where they expected to have been devoured every
moment.

He told me they had some nrms with them, but they were pm'fcctly useless :
for they had neither powder nor ball, the was 'ug of the son having spoiled all
their powder, but a litile which they used at their first landing to provide them-
selves some food.

X risked him what, he thought would become of them there; and if they had
fainted no design of making any escape? He said they had many cunsnltaliom
about it; but that, having neither vessel nor tools to build one, nor provisions of
any kind, their 'connscls always ended in team mid despnir.

I asked him 110'"? he. thought they would receive a pmposa-l from me, which
might. tend towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might. nut
he done"! 'I told him with freedom, 1 feared mostly their treachery and ill usage
of nae, ii' I put my life in their hauls; for that. gratitude was no inherent virtue
in the, nature of man; nor did men always square their Lleafliiiga by the
obligations they llaizl received, so much as they did by the advantages they
expected. I told him, it would he very hard, that I should be the instrument

ai' their deliverance,
a nd that they should
after-nerds make me.
their prisoner in
New Spain, where
mi Englishman "11$
net-min to ho lgmde
u sacrifice, what.
necessity, or what
accident soevel',
bought him thi--
ther; and that. I had
rather be delivered
up to the savages,
:1nd Lt; devoured
alive, than fall into
the merciless Claws of the priests, and be carried into the hiqinsidolnl added that
otherwise I u .15 persuaded, il the) were all line, we mivrht with so many hands,

huil. ! a ban large enough to can} u: all u\\il_'y', either to the Brazils eoutlm aid, or I :

to the islands or Spanish coast northward. - but that if in requiml theyshuuld. when
I 11an nut "canons into their hands ,cmiv me In; fame among theii um: people I

might be ill-used for my hindness to them, and make. my case must: than it "as
belozc.

lie misnered, with a great deal of rnndonr and ingenuity, ihnl their condition
"as so inisemhle; and that they were so sensible of it, that. he believed they irould
fi'uhor the. thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
'lBIiYCI'flnCe; mid that if 1 pleased, he would go ln'lheni with the. old man, and
discourse with them almut it, and return again and hring me their flnS"(:l. ' that
he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that they would be
absolutely under my leading, us their commander and captain; and that they
should swear upon the Holy Sacraments and Gospel to be true to me, and go to
such Christian country as l zhould agree to, and no other; and to be directed
wholly and absolutely by my orders, till thry were lauded safely in such a country
as I intended; and that he would bring a contract from them wider their hands
for that. purpose.

Then he told me, he would first swear to me himself, that. he would never stir
from me as long as he lived, till I gave him order: and that. he would talic my
side to the last drop of blood, if there should happen the least breach ul' l'IIiLh
among his countrymen.

He told me, they were all of them very civil hnncst mum, and that they were
under the granted distress imaginable, having neither weapons nor I-lnthcs, nor
any food, but at the mercy and discretion of savages ----out of all hopes of ever

 

returning to their own country; and that he was sure. if I uould undertake their
relief, they would live and die by me.

Upon those assurances, I resolved to voutute to rclie 1: them, if possible, and
to send the. old savage and this Sp 1iimid over to them to treat: but "hen he had
gotten all clung: in madiness to no, the Spaniard liimsolt started mi objection,
ulIich had so much prudence' In it on one hand, and so much suiceiit3- on the
other hand, that. 1 could not but he m3 well satisfied In it: and by his which.

23'
 

put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half at [cm The case was
this :-- '

He had been with us now about a. month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support ; and he saw evidently what stool: of corn and rice I had laid'np; which,
as it was more than sufficient for myself, so it um: not sufficient, at least Without
good husbandry, for my family, now it was. increased to number four: but much
less would it be sufiicient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen still
alive, shonld come over; and least of all. would it he suiliciont to victuol our
vessel, if we should build one, for n voynge to any one oi' the Christian colonies
of America. So he told me, he thought it would he more advisable, to let him
and the othertwo dig and cultivate some more loud, as much as I could spurs
seed to sow; and that we should wait another hon-est, that we might have a.
supply of corn for his countrymen when they should come; for want might be it
temptation to them, to disngrcc, or not to think themselves delivered otherwise
than out ol' one difficulty into another. " You luiow," says he, "the children of
Israel, though they rejoiced at time. at their being; delivered out of Egypt, yet
rebelled even against God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness." '

His caution was so sensunahle, and his mlvicc so good, thnt I could not lint he
very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity.
So we fell to digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were
furnished with permitted; and, in aheut 9. month's time, by the end of which it.
was seed time, we had gotten to much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed
twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all
the seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley Sulliciont for
our own food for the six months that we had to expect cor crop, that is to say,
reckoning from the timc'we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be
supposed it is six months in the ground in that country. I

Having now society enough, and our number being; sufficient to put us out of
four of the savages, if they had come, unless their number had been Very grunt,
we went freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion; and as here we
had our escape or delivmmice upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for
me, to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpose, I marked out aeveral
trees, which I thought {it for our work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting
them down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts
on that affair, to oversee and direct their work; I showed them with what
inclcfatigthle pains I had hewod a large tree into single planks, and I caused them
to do the like, till they had made about n dozen large planks of good oak, near

. , , 23,,

W --
two feet brood, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick:
what prodigious labour it took up any one mav imagine.

At the some time, I contrived to increase our little flock of tame gents as much
as I could: and to this propose, I male Ride}? and tho Spunimd to go out one
day, and in) self with Fiidny the next d11y,for1\e took our turns; and 11:; tlns
means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest; for, whenever
we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our (lack: hut, shore all,
the season for curing the grapes cmning on, I cansod such a piodigions quantity
to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at. Alicanl, where the raisins
of the 51111 are c11r,ed we should ham: filled sixw or eightv barrels; and these,
With our hread,11-ere a great purl; of our food, and very g0ud living too, I assure
you; for it is an exceedingly nourishing fond. _

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order : it was not the most plentiful
increaseI had seen in the is and: but, however, it was enough to ansncr our
end, 501' from tn only--two lnnhels of barley, we brouohz' 111 and threshctl out above.
tno hundred and twenty bushels, and the like' in proportion of the 1ico1-1l11ch was
store cnongh for our food to the next lm1'vost,tl1ough all the sixteen . '~p.1niards
lmd been on shore with me , or, if we had' neon toody for a; voyage, it would 111:; y
pleneil'ully have victunllod our ship, to have carried us to any part of the world,
that is to say, of America. W hen we had thus housed and secured our magazine
of corn, we Fall to work to make more wickerhworlt, namely, gram baskets, in
. . 1 1w. l : it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous in this part,
and often blamed me-thet I did not. make some things for defence, of this kind of
work; but I saw no need ofit. A1111 now, having a, full supply of food for all the
guests expected, I gave the Spaniard lonvo to go ore): to the main, to see what he
could do wit-l1tl1osa he led behind him there: I gave him a strict charge in
11-1'lting not to bring,r any man with him, who would not first swear, in the preaence
of himself and of the old savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or
attack the poison he should find in the island, who was so kind to send for them,
in order to their deliverance; but that they would stand by and defend him
against. all such attempts; and, wherever they went, would be omimly under,
and subjected lo his command; and that this should he put in writing, and
signed with their hands : how We were to have this done, when I know
they had neither pen nor ink, that, ' ideed, was 0, question which we never
asked.

Under these instrnetions, the Sponizud and the old savage (the father of
F ridoy) went away in out: of the canoes, which tl1e_1r might be said to come in
or rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the' I gave each of them :2 musket with a firelocl: on it, nntl about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use
eitlmr of them but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the. first measures used by me in View of my
(ll-lix-orance for now twenty-seven yeah: and some days. I gave them provisions
of brand, and ni' dried grapes, milk-lent for themselves for many days and
suflicicntfor their countrymen for about eight days' time; and, wishing them a
good voyage, I let. them go, agreeing with them abou: a signal they should hang
out a! their return, by which I should know them again, when they came hack,
at a distance, before they came on Show.

They went away with :1 fair gale on the day that the moon war at full ~ by
my nrcmmtin the month of October--hut as for the. exact reckoning of days,
afterl had once lostit, I could never recover it again; nor had I kept oven the

number of years so punctnnlly as to he sure that I was right, though, as it provml
when I afterwards examined my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of
years.

It "'35 no 1955' than vight- days .I waited for them, when n strange and
nnforsoen accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of
in history. I "as fast asleep in my lmficlx one morning, when my man Friday

came running in to me, zmd called aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they
are come i"

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could get my
clothes on, through nay little gore ---which, by the way, was by this time grown"@2555 ,x

   
  

. u
to be it very thick wood --I say, regardless of danger, I went without my arms, fig
which was not my custom to do; but I was surpn'sed, when tuming my eyes to
the. sea, I presenlly saw :\ boat at about a league and a half's distance, standing '-
in for share, with :L shoulder--ohnntmn sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing

i
4%
3
-S 4
2 3'-
L
' z.

 

4 mm mutiny.) g.
-. a prefix" fair to bring them in. Also I observed presently, that they did not come '4'
:4: from that side which the shore In}.. 011,? but from the southennost and of the l}?the manic we lacked for, and that we (lid not know yet whether they mare
frisznds or enginies.

In the mm place, I went, in to {cf-ch 111v paisPective glass, to see what I cuuld
make cf them; and, hzwi 5; taken the intlcie 1- out. I elimhc .I.i 11p to the tap of PS111:
hill, as I use-l to rin when .I. was apprchcn are of any thing, 111111 to take my nu"
the pininm- without. being; discover-vii.

I had sauce 11.2111: loci on the hill, when my aye pininiv discm-eved :1 ship
Iving nt 1111 nnchcn, st ahout two 10.10.1915 and n hazfs chstnncc 1mm me south

south-cast, b. 11'. 119: <<have :1 long": 11:11.1 .. half" 110111 t1: 0 141%va my obse .1150"
i1- nppemetl plainly to he 1111 E111 ship, and cm: heat aninearuu to 111- :111 English

long--heat.

I cnnnot. express the annfusion I 1va in, though the joy of seeing a. ship, and
one which I inn! reason to believe was manned by my own count-13mm", and
consequently friends, was such as 1' cannot describe; but yet I had some '9:
doubts hung about 1113, E cauno; tell from whence they came, bidding 12m keep
119.711 my guard. In the first place, i: occurred (-0 me 1/.) Consider "121113. busi
an English ship could have 1'11 slim: 11111": of the world; since it was not the 11.1.}-
1o_ or from any part of the "101111.171:ch the English had my trniiic, and I knew
there had been no storms to drive them in them, as in distress; and thst if they
Were English really, it was most probable that they were here 1111011 no good
desig ; and that I had belle:- continue as I was, than fall into the hands of
thieves 21111'1 murderels.

Le: 1111 mm despise the secret hints and. notices of danger which sometimes
are given him, when he 111:1 ' think there is 110 possibility of it's: being real. T1111:

such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have made any Obsel'i'afio-l
of things can deny; (hi1: tliev are new ain disco" e1ies of an invisible world, and a
converse oi sphitsa, "c cannot. 110111)":qu if the Whammy of them seems .t" he to
warn 1:21 of danger, why should m; not suppose they am from some friendly agent
(whather <<11111-011112, or inferior and subordinate, is 1101; the question), and they are
given for our good?

The m- esent question abundantly confirms me in the justice (if this: reasoning;
for had I not, been made cannons by this secret :'xhnrmitinn, (some [133111 whence it
will, I imdheen undone inevitably, and in :1 far worse condition than lac-Fore, 11a
yon will see lircsently.

I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I smv the bout (inm- neur the
nhom, 11; if they looked for 11 crack to thrust- in at. for the convenience of landing;
however, as they did not come quite fai- enough, they did. not see the little inlet.
where I formerly landed my rafts, hut run their boat on shore upon the bench, at
about haif a mile from me, which was very happy fur me; [or oihm-wisc they
would have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would have soon bcalcn
me out of my cattle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all I had.

l-l'hen they were on 'shm'e, I was fully sniisfled they were Englishmen, at
least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so.
There were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were unarmed,
and (as I thought) hound ; and when the [inst four or five of them were jumped
on shore, they took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of the three I
could Peroeive using the most passionate gestures of entrenl._v, afiliclinn, and
despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted
up their hands scmetimes, and appeared concernml indeed, but not to such a
degree as the first. -

    

I was [)9er

 

l

 

'l 'mnfuzmdud at the si_ t, and knew not. what the meaning of
it slwuld he; I-'ndny calm! out to me in English, as. "all as he could, "0h,
master! you sat: English mans eat prisoners in; well. as savage mansF--fi \"
said I, "Friday, do yen (hinl: tho" are going to eat them then? --"
bays Friday, "they will en'. thcin."~---"No, no." said I, "l"l'it'nv;

 

afraid they will murder 'Llwm indeed; but you may he snre they will not eat
them."

All this while I had no lliongh: of what the mnilm' really was, but stood
trcinhling with the horror ol' the s.

  

5hr, expecting every nmmnnt when the three
prisoners should he lmlorl; may, once I saw one (if the. villains lift up his arm with
a greammlsss (as thesnieu call it) or sword, to strike one. of the poor men;
in fall every moment, at which all the blood in my body

i.

\

and '1' expected to son

 

reezned to run chill through my \ci

   

I wished heartily now for the Spaniard; and the savage that was gnnn with
him ; or that I'hnd any wny to have come undiscovered within shot of the)"; that
I n
the

 

<<ht have '10: ml the Litres) III-en; for I saw no lire-mans they had among

   

; hat. in fall out to :in mind another way.

PS\ff-21'I had observed Ilia outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent
Emmett, I Oli-SCITCd the fellows run scattering about. tho. land, as if they mulled to
see the comm-gr. I observed also, that the other three men had liberty in go
where they planned ; but the; sat down all three upon rho ground very pensive,
and locked like men in despair.

'i'lxis pill. inc in mind of tho. first time when I came on shore, and began to
lnolt about. me. ; how I gzwe myself over Rir lust, lmw wildly I looked romid me,
what dreadful apprehensions]: had, and how 1 Judged in the free. all night for
fear 6:" being devoured l7}; wild beasts.

As I know "(idling that night of the supply I. wns to receive by lhe provi-
dentinl driving of -1he ship neiu'e'r the land by tho storms and tides, by which I
 

have since been so long nourished and supported; so these three poor desolate
men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near it.
was to them, and how effectually and really they were in a condition of safety, at
the same time they thought themselves lost, and their case desperate.

So little do we see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to _
depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the worst circumstances they have

always something to be thtmlt'iul for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance
than they imagine--nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they seem to he bronght to their-destruction.

It was just-at the top of high water when these people came on shore, and

 

while partly they stood pnrleying with the prisoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in, they had
carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the water was chbed considerably away, a
leaving their boat aground. - :

They had left. two men in the bout, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk 1
a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking sooner
than the other", and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it,
hnlloocd for the rest who were straggling nbout, upon which they all soon
come to the boat; but it was past all their strength!>> launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a, soft cozy stmd, almost like a
Quicksand. '

In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all man-
kind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the ,
country again : and I heard one of them say aloud to another (calling them oh' = I
from the host), " Why, let her alone, J ark, can't ye? she'll float next tide.'-I 5 _,
By which I was fully confirmed in the main enquiry, of what countrymen they
were. . .

All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to stir out. of my castle, any
farther than to my place of observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad
I "'85 to think how well it was fortified. 1 1:11ch it was no less than ten hours
before the boat. could be on float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I
might be more at liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they
had any. - .

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though with more
Caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first ; I
ordered Fridny also, whom I had made an excellent nmrlumnn with his gull; W
load hinnelf with anneal took myself two funding-pieces, and I gave him three
nmskcio. My figure, indeed, was very fierce : I had my formidable goat--skin

 

23-3
 

coat on, with the great cup I mentioned, a naked sword, two pistols in my belt,
and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not. to have made (my attempt till it was
dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that in short
' they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were all laid
down to sleep. The. three poor distrcmd men, too anxious for their condition
to get any sleep, were, however, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at
about :1 quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of
the rest.

Upon this I resolved to discover myeclf 1:>> them, and learn something of their
condition. Immediately I marched in the figure nlxwe, my man Friday at. n guml
distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so
smriug a spectre-like figure as I did.

I came as near to them midiscorered as I could and then, before any of them
saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen '! "eflu=}SS{.SSgC/m ,
ADVENTURES OF 'ROHINSON (21315015.

 

They skirted up at t'as noise, but were ten times more confounded Mien they
saw me, and the uncouth figuw that I made--dim); made no answer at. all, but I
thought I perceived them just going Lo fly from me, when I spoke to them in
English: " Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may
have a friend near yoii, when you did mt expect it."----" He must be sent directly _
from Heaven, than," snid one of them very gravely to me, pulling off his hat at
the same time, "for em: <<unfit-ion is past the help of man."-----"A.ll iwlp is from
Heaven, sir !" said I: "but can you put a stmuge': in the way hex-.- tu help you,
for you seem to me to be in great. dishes? I saw you when you landed; and
when you seemed to make n'pylicution to the bi'utes that came with you, I saw-one
of them lift, up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling, lacking like

 

one nstoni :cd, returned, "Am I talking to Gad or 112ml 15 it a real man

or an angel ?"'-----"Be in no fear about that, sir," snid I: "if God had sent

xm mgd to whom: you, lae would have come better clothed, and better armed

after another mmmex' than you see me in. Pray, lay aside yom' fetus: .[ am a

man--an Englishman, and disposed to assistyou: you see I have me sen-'ant

only--we llzh'u arms and ammunition; tell us freely can we serve you; W'lmt

I is year case '5"

. "01n- cuse," said he, "sir, is too long to tell you while our murdemrs are so
new: 3 bu}, in shark, sir, I was eommunder vi'timi.slii1); my men having mutinicd
against me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and at, last
have set me on shore in this claolatc place, with these. two men with 1219, 01m my

g mate, the other a-ymssmignr, where we expected to perish, believing the place to
he uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it."

"' Where are these brides, your enemies?" said I ; "le yet! know where they
are goue?"----~"Thero they me, sir," said he! pointing to a thicket. <11" trues; " my
headtfl'emhlcs top fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if llzey have,
lhey will certainly murder us all."

"Hm-e they any firearms?" said 1. He answered, "They had only two
pines, and one which they left in the hoat."'----"'Well, than," said I, " leave
the rest to me; I'sce they are asleep; it is :m <<as; thing to kiil them all) but
shall we rather tukJ them prisuneis?" He mid me there were two desperate
villains <<mung them, that it was scarce safe to shew any mercy to; but if they
New secured, he believed ail the rest would return to their duty: I asked him
which the}: were? Ila told me he could not nt that distance. describe them ; but
he would uhey my orders in anything I would direct. " l'l'ell," said 'I, "let. us
mtrcat cut of their View or hearing, imt they awake, and we will resolve farther 5"
so they willing!y "lent back with me, till the woods covered us from them. I
233
"Look you, sir," said I, " if I vezisure upon your deliverance, are you willing

to make two conditions with me? ' He anticipated my proposals by telling me,

 

  
     

. that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded
hy me in every thing; and ii the ship was not recovered, he would live and die
with me in what. part of the world scever i would send him: and the two other
men ssh-l the same.

" Well," said 1,." my ceizditions are but. two: First, That while ~you stay on
Lhis islmid'with me, you will not pretend co any authority how; and if I put
arms into your hendq, you will upun all occasions give them up to me, and do no
prejudice to me or mine, upon this island, and in the monniinm in he. governed hy
orrlms. Second, That if the ship is, or may he, recovered, you wnl can'y me and
my man :6 England passage free."

He gave me all the assurance that. the invention or faiih of a man could
devise, that he would mmply with these most reasonnhle demands; and besides,
would one his life to me, and acknowledge i! upon all occasions as long as he
lived.

" \V'eil, then," said I, " here are three mushets for you, with powder and ball;
tell me next What you think is proper to he done." Ho. showed all the testimony
of his gmtimde 'hat he. was able, but offered f0 be wholly guided Ivy me : I tuld
him I thought it was hmul venturing nnyllzh

  

_, but the Les: method [ could think
of was, 1.9 lire at. once upon them as they lay; and if any were not killed at the
first valley, and offered to snhmie, we might save them, and so put it wholly iqmn
God's providence to direct the shot.

He said, very modestly, that ho was ioth to kill than if he could help it; hat
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had huen thchnlhm's of all the
mutiny in the ship, and, if they escaped, we should be undone slil'; a: they
would go on board, and bring the whole ship's company, and do. my us nil.
"ll-"oil, then," said I "necessity Iegitimaics my advice; for it is the only way to
Siva mu- lii'es." However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, l (Old

him they should go themselves, and menngo a}; they found convenient.

In the middle of this (limourse, we heard some of them awake, and soon nflor
we saw two of them on their feet. I asked hiiu if cithei'of ihein were the men
who he had snid were the heads of the mutiny? He said "No."-"Well, than,"
said 1', "you may let ihem escape, and Providence seems to have. wahened them
on purpose to 8: ve themselves. Now," said I, " if (he rest escape you, it is your
innit."

, Animated with this, he tools the musket I had given him. in his hand, and
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each man a piano in his

hand; the two men who were with him going first, made some noise, at \a-hivh one.';m:n;,'. .. ,,._ M, e

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

of the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and, seeing them coming, cried out
tn the rest; but it. was too late then, for the moment. he cried out they fired, I
mesin the two men, the captnin wisely reserving his own piece: they had so well
uimarl the shot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot,
sun-l the other very much wounded; but not being ilewtl, he started up on his

feet and called eagerly For help to the other: but the cnptnin, stepping up to
him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should enll upon God to forgive
his rillauy: and with that word knocked him down with tho. stock of his musket,
so that he never spoke
more : there were three
more in the company,
and one of them was
also slightly wounded.
By this time was come ;
and when they saw
their danger, and that
it was in min to resist,
they begged for mercy.
The captain told. them
he would spare their
lives, it they would give
him any nss-mmme of
their nhhm-reuce of the
treachery they haul
hem guilty of, and.
would swear to be
faithful tn him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to
Jamaica, from whence they came. They>>' gave him all the protestations of their
sincerity that could he desired, and he was willing to heliei'e them, and spare their
lives, which I was not against; only I {ms obliged to keep them hound, hand and
foot, while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I Eent Friday with the captnin's mate to the hoot, with
orders to secure her, and bring away the ours and sail, which they did; and by
and bye, three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from the rest,
came hack upon hearing the grins firetl; and seeing their captain, who before we;
their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be. bound also---nn(l so our
victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should enquire into one another't
circumstances. I began first, and told him'my whole history, which he heardwith an attention even to amazement, and particularly at the wonderful manner
of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my
wholo story is a collection, of wonder", it ailected him deeply: but when he
reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran lluwn his fiu'e, and he could not
speak a word more. _ ,

After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men into
)n_;' apartments, leading them in just where I came out, namely, at the top of
the house; where I refreshed them with such provisions as i had, and showed
thmn all the contrivanccs l had made during my long, long inhabiting that
place. ' I

 

All I showed them, all I snid to them, was perfectly amazing; but, above all,
the captain admired my fortification; and how perfectly I had concealed my
retreat with a gmve of trees, which, having now boon planted near twenty years,
and the trees growing much faster than in England, was become a little wood,
and so thick, that it was impassable in any part of it, but at that one side where
I had reserved my little winding passage into it: this I told him was my castle,

241
 

 

 

and my residence; but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes have,
whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too another
time: but at present our basinosa was to consider how to recover the ship.
He agreed with me as m that, but told mo, that he was perfectly at a loss
what measures to take; for: there were six-and-menty ham-ls (m hoard, who,
having entered into a. cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their
lives to the law, would he haidened in it now by desperation; and would carry
it on, knowing that7 if they were reduced, they should be brought to the gallows
as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English colonies; and
that therefore there would be no attacking them with so small a numher as we

were. .
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very rational

Conclun'iuu, and that therefore something was to he resolved on very speedily, as
well to draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent
their landing upon as, and destroying as. Upon thia'it presently occurred to me,
that in alil-llc while the ship's crew, wondering; what was become of their com--
raclus, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat to seek
for them ; and that then perhaps they might come armed, and-he too strong for
us: this he allowed was rational.

Upon this I told him, the first thing wehnd todo was to slam the boat, which
lay upon the beach, so that. they might not c:u'ry her off ; and tithing every thing
out of her, leave he): so far useless as not to be fit to swim: accordingly, we went
on board, took the arms which were on board out of her, and whatever also we
found there--which was a. bottle of brandy and another of mm, a few biscuit-
aahcs, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a. piece of awash--the
sugar was five or six pounds; all which was very welcome to me, especially the
brandy and sugar, of which I had had none for many years.

When we had carried all these things on share (the oars, mast, sail, and
rudder of the boat were carried before as above), we knocked a great hole in
her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet they could
not carry off the heat. Indeed it was not much in my thoughts that we could
ba capable to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they Went away without
the boat, I (lid not much question to make her fit again to carrym away to the
Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had
them still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first by main strength
heaved the boat up upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float her oi?
at high water mark, and, besidee, had broken a hole in her bottom, too big to be

>> f. .

'1!ax'>7SS_4'.:--,",;_>.Yv' a;
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
  

 

quickly stopped, and were set down musing what we should do, we heard the ship
fire a gun, and saw her make a waft. with her ancient, as a signal for the boat to
come on board ; but no heat stirred; and they fired several times, making other
signals for the boot.
I At. last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless, and they found the
boat. did not. stir, we saw them (hr the help of our glasses) hoist another boat out,
and row towards the shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no
lees than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost. two leagues from the shore, we had a full View of them
as they came, and a plain sight of the men, even to their faces; because the
tide having set them a little to the (mt of the other heat, they rowed up under
shore, to come to the same place where the other had landed, and where the
bent. lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the
persons and character of all the men in the boat; of whom he said that there
were three very honest fellows, who he was sure were led into the conspimcy
by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; hat that for the boutsi-ain, who,
it seems, was the chief oflicer among them, and all tlze rest, they were as
outrageous as any'of the ship's crew; and were, no doubt, made desperate in
their new eulerprlsc; nnd terribly apprehensive he was that. they would he too
powerful for us.

I smiled at him, and told him, that. men in our circmnstances'n'cm pest the
operations of fear; that considering every condition that could he was better
than that we were. supposed to he in, we ought to expect that; the consequence,
whether deal-h or life, would he sure in he a' deliverance: .l asked him What he
thought of the circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for?" "And where, sir," said I, "i." your belief of my being
preserved here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a. little while go?
For my part," said I, " there seems to ho only one thing amiss in all the pmspect
of it."---""'lmt's that '2" sag-s he. "Why," said I, "'65 that no you any, there
are three or four honest fellow among them, which should be spared; had they
been of the wicked part of the crew, l should have thought God's Providence 11ml
singled them out to deliver them into your hands: for, depend upon it, every
man of them that, comes ashore are our own, and shall die or lino us they behave
to us." _ '

As I spoke this with a. mised voice and cheerful countenance, I found it
greatly encouraged him: so we set vigorously to our business. We hml, upon the
first nppeamnce of the boat's coming from the ship, considered of separating out
prisoners, and had indeed secured them effectually.

243
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent.
with Friday, and one of the thme (delivered men) to my cave, where they were
remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered, or of finding
their way out of the woods if they could have delivered tlrcnmelves: here they
left them bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them, if they continued
there quietly, tu give them their liberty in a day or two; but that if llwy
attempted their escnpe,'they hould be put tu death without many. They pro--
mised faithfully to hear their confinement with patience, and were very thankful
that. they had such gflml usage as to have provisions and a light left them; for
Friday gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) fur their comfort; and
they did not know but' he stood sentinel over them at the entrance;

The ether Pl'lwllul'b had better usage: two of ihcm were kept pinionml
indeed, because the caplain was not free to trust them; but. the other two
were taken into my service upun their caplairfs reeommendatiun, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die With us; so, with them nnd the three.
honest men, we were seven men well armed; and I made no donhl. we should
be. able to deal well enough With the ten that. were Homing, contidcriug that.
the Captain inn/d said, '-
thnt (here were three
or four honest mun
among them also.

A: soon aa' they got
10 the place ivhere their
other heat lay, they
ran their boat into the
beach, and (2.1.1116 all on
shore, hauling the heat
up tiller them, which I
was glad t0 sue; for I -
'was afraid they would
rather have left- the
heat at an anchor, some distance. from the shore, with some hands in her Lo guard
her ; and so we should not be able to seize the boat.

Being on share, the first thing they did, they ran all to the other heat; and it
M'us easy to see they were under a great surprrae to find her stripped, as above, of
all that was in her, and :1 great hole in her bottom. .

After the? had mused a great while upon this, they set up two 61'. three great
shouts, halloning' with all their might, to try if they could make their companions
hear; 1min" was to no purpoec: then they came all close in a ring, and fired a
 

 

ADVENTURES- 01" ROBINSON CRUSOE,

volley of their small arms, which, indeed we heard, and the echoes made him
wdods ring; but it. was all one: those in the can 0, we were sure, could not hear;
and those in am- keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet (tum give no
answer to them.

Theywere sossbonishezl at the surprise uf this, that, as they told u: afterwurdx, .

they resolved to go (Ill on board again to their ship, and let. them know there, that
the men were all murdered, and the long heat stared; necoulingly, they immo-
(liaiely launched the bout again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at. this, believing they
would go on humid the shin again, and set sail, giving their comrades up for lost,

 

mid so he should still lose the ship, whieh he was: in hopes In: shouhl have
recovered; but he was quickly as much {lightened the vthcr way.

They had not limp; been put off with the lmat, hm. we pewcimd 1.1mm nll
eoming on shore again, but, with this new measm'c in their conduct, which, it
seems, they conmltecl together upon, namely, to leave three men in the bum,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the coumry to look for their
follows.

This Was a great climppointment to us; for now we wom at n less what to do;
for ('mr seizing those seven men on show would he no advantage if we let the heal:
wznpc, because they would then row away to the ship; and then the rest of
them would be sure to weigh, nml aet sail, and so our recovering the ship would

  

,1.

 

a.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things
might rumour. The seven men came on shore, and three who remained in
the hunt, put-herd? to a good distance frm'n tho. 5110111 and came m an anchor
to unit fur them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
heat.

Those that came 01: shore kept close together, marching towards the top of
the little hill, uniier which my habitat-i011 lan'; and we could see then plainly,
though they could not pel'Celvo us; we cuuld have been very glad they would
1mm come nearer 11) us, so that. 11'c111lghthm'u fired at them; or that they would
have gone farther off, 111a: we might have (10111>> abroad.

liuhvhen they were. some 1.0 the. brow of the hill,1vhere they (1011111 see a great
"my 111 (he n111eym1<l woods, which 1113' towards the northeast parl and where the
island in) lowesi, 1.11M! shouted and 1111110021! 1111 they nut: \1ca1'VmKl 11111 0 wing
it seems, lo venture. Fm' {mm the shore, 1101-1111 PS10m one another, they sat down
together under a tree to consider 01 it." 1114111 they thoughl. {it to have gone there
as the other 1181"!) of them haul 11011u,111e3 had done the job for 113;. 11111. they "are
too full of apprehensions of danger to vent-11m to go to sleep, though they could
not tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal 1.0 1111: upon this consultation of
theirs, namely, that, perhaps, they would all fire a volley again to endeavour
to make their fellows hear, and that we should 1111 sally upon them just. 111. the
juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly yield,
and we should have (116111 without 11100125111111 I liked the p1'opoml.pmvided it
w as done while we were near muugh in come up to 1110111 1.101019 thev muhl load
their pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time very irrcsulule
what course 1.0 Lake; at length I told him there would he nothing to he done, in
my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not return [.0 the limit, perhaps we
might find a way to get between them and 1.110. shore, and so might "SO some
stratagem with them in the hont'm get them on shore.

I "'9 waited a grant. while, though very impatient for their removing, and were
very uneasy; when, ailer long consultations, we saw them all start up and march
dawn toward the sea: it seems they had 1111011 dreadful appiehensinns upon 11141111
of the danger of the place, that they resolved to 2:0 on board the ship again, give
their companions over for lost, and so go on nith their intended voyage 11itl1
the ship.

:12 soon :19 I perceived them go towards the shore, l imagined it to he, as it
really was, that they had given over their search, and wow. 1' or going back again;
and the captain, as 110011 as 1 had told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehensions of it; but I presently thought. of a strawoin to fetch them back
again, and which answered my mid to n tittlo.

' I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creel: westward,
towards the- plnce where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued,
and as $0011 as they came to a little rising ground, at nhout half a. mile's
distance, I bade them hallou an loud as they could, and wait till they found the
seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them,
they should return it again, and then keeping out of sight, take a round, always
answering when the others halloued, to draw them as far into the island, and
among the woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as
I (lirentod.

They were just going into the bout, when Friday and the mate hnllooed, and
they presently heard them, and answer-mg, ran along the shore westward, towards
the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek, whom the
water being up, they could not get over, and called for the boot to come up and
set them over, us indeed I expected.

When they had set themselves: over, 1 observed that the boat being gone up
a good way into the creek, and, as it. were, in a harbour within the huid, they
took one of the three men out of her to go along with them, and only left two in
the hoot, having fastened her to the stump of a. little tree on the Shem.

This was what I wished for, and innnulintely leaving Friday and the captain's
mute to their business, T look the rest with me, and crossing the creel: out of their

sight, we sm'prised the two men before they were awau'e, one of them lying on
shore, and the other being in the bout ; the fellow on shore was between sleeping
and wn'ging, and, going to start up, the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him and knocked him down, and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he
was a dead man.

There nemlod very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield, when he
saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was it
seems, one of the three who were not so hem-Ly in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield, but often-ands to join
vary sincerelygrith us.

In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well arranged their business
with the rest, that they drew them, by halloeing and answering, from one hill to
unother, and from one. wood to another, till they not. only heartily tired them, but
left them where they were very sure they could not reach back to the boat before
it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also by the time
they came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to which for them in the dark, and to fall upon.1>>:
AD in

NTURES 0F ROBINSON CHI 01"}.

them so as to make sure work with them. It was sm'ornl hours after Friday
came back to me heforg they calm back to their hoat~--nnd we could hear the
foremost of them, long before. they came quite up, calling to those behind to
come along ---~an<l could also hear them answer, nncl complain how lame and tired
they were, and not being able to come any faster, which was very welcome new
to us.

At length they came up to the boot; but it: is impossible to express their
couliisinn, when they found the host lint aground inlho crock, the tide ebberl out,
and their two men gone: we could hear them ml! to one another in a. most
lamentable manner, felling one another the): were gotten into an enchanted

island, that either there were inhabitants on it, and they should all he murdered;
or else there Were devil>> or spirits in it; and they should be all carried away and

devoumd.

They lxallooorl again, and called their two comrades by their names a gram.
many times, but no answer: after some time we could see them, by the little light
there was, run about wringing their lumds, like men in despair; and that some--
times thoy would go and sit. down in the boat to mat themselves, then come ashore,
and wall: about again, and so the same thing over ngnin.

My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in
the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare them,

- and kill as few of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to hazard the
killing an; of our men, knowing the other men wore very well armed: I resolved
to wait to see if they did not separate; and therefore to make sure of them, I
drew my nmlmsnnde nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon VJ
their hands and feet as close to the: ground as they could, that they might um;
be discovered, and get as near them as they could possibly, before they oil'urcd
to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, till the bontswain, who was the
principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected
and dispiritcd of all the rest, came walking towards them with two more of the

   
 

(

_ g. _.,..A .--s
v 'W

-_. _ -.:,_-._

 

[Tho Pudom]

crew; the captain was so eager, at having the principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to he sure
7 of him; for they only heard his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the
. captain and Friday, star-Ling up on their feet, let 1! y at them.

The boatswaiu was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in the body,
 

and [331 just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two after ; and the
third ran for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army, which
was now eight. men; namely, myself, generslfssimo; Friday, my [icutcmngu
general; the captain and his two men, and the three prisonens of war, whom we
had trusted with arms.

We (Lame upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not see our
number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was now one of
us, to call thcm by name, to try it' I could bring them in a patio), and. so,
might. perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just as we desired; for
indeed it 'was easy to think, as their condition than was, they would be may
willing to capitulntc; so he calls out as loud as he could to one of them, "Tom

. Smith 1 Tom Smith !" Tom Smith mswcmd immediately, " Who's that?
301,335,011!" For it seems he knew his voice. The other numeral, "Ay, :15;
for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you are all dead
men this moment. "

'- Who must "a yield to? whole are they?" says Smith again. "Here they
are," : ys he; "heie' is our captain and fifty men with him, have been hunting
you this two hours; the boatswniu is killed, "Will Fry is wounded, and I am a
prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all lost."

"Will they-give us quarter, then?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."
4" I'll go and ask, il'yon promise to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain,
and the captain himself then calls out, " You, Smith, you know my voice: if you
lay down your arms iumediately and submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins."

Upon this Will Atkins cries out, " For God's sake, captain, give me quarter!
What have I (lone? They have all been as bad as I," (which, by the way, was
not true either; for it seems this Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of
the captain when they first mutinicd, and used him hm'bemusly, iu tying his
hands and giving him injurious language). However, the captain told him he
must lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the govmmr's mercy, by which
he meant me; for they all called me governor.

In a. word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent
the man who had parlcyccl with then), and two more, who bound them all: and
then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly with those three were in all
but eight, came up and seized upon them all, and upon their boat; only that I
kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing the ship; and as
For the captain, now he had leisure to parloy with them, he expostulated with
them upon the villsmy of their practices with him, and of length; upon the further
wickedness of their design; and how certainly it must bring them to misery and
distress in thee-11d, and perhaps to the gallows.

The}' all appeared very ponitent, and begged hard for their lives: as for that,
he told them they were none of his prisonars, but the commander's of the island; I
that: they thought they had so}, him on shore in a barren iniinhubited island, but it
had plansch God so to direct them, that. {he island was inhabited, and that. Hm
governor was an Englishumn ; that he might hang them all there, if he pleased ;
but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he would send them to
England, to be dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was
conmmnded lay the gxwemor to advise to prepare for death; for that he would be
hanged in the morning.

 

 

 

Though this was all n fiction of his own; yet. it had iis desired effect. Atkins
fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to inlorcmlc with the governor for his life;
and all the rest begged of him, for Guy's sake, that they might. not be sent to
Englnnd.

It now occurred to me that the time of am deliverance was conic, and that.
it Wouldlxa amost. easy thing to bring (hose fellows in 10 he hearty in getting
pomssion of ihe ship; so I retired in the dark from thmn, tlmt they might. not
see what kind of a. governor they had, and called the captain to me; when I
called as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak sgnin, and say
to the captain, " Captain, tho commander nails for you ;" and presently this
captain replied, "Tell his excellcncy I am just, a-ccmino'." This more perfectly
amazed them; and they all believed that the mmmzmder was just by with his
fifty men.-

L'pon the captain's coming to me, I told him my projec'; l'nr seizing the ship,
which he liked wondorfully wcll, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning.

Bui. in order to anemic it with more art, and m be secure of succeSF, I fold
him we inns: divide the prisonm's, and that he. should go and take Atkins, and
two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned m the care where the
olllm's lay; this was committed to Friday, and the two men who came on shore
with the captain.

Then mm-evcd them to the. cave, as to a prison; and it was indeed a dismal
place, cipnriallji to men in their condition.

The others I ordered to my bower; as I called if, of which I lime given n full
description; and as it was fenced in, and they piniunerl, the place was secure
enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into a pin-lay

251
with them ; in a word, to try them, and tell me, whether he thought they might
be trusted or no, to go on hoard, and surpi'iee the ship. He talked to them of the
injury done him, of the condition they were bmnght to; and that though the
governor had given them quarter for their lives, as to the present action, yet that
if they were sent to England, they would be all hanged in chains, to he sure ; but.
that if they would join in such an attempt as to recover the ship, he would hava
the governor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such it proposal wmxld he accepted by men
In their condition: they fell down on their knees to the captain, and pmmised,
with the deepest. 'imprecntions, that they should he faithful in him to the last
drop, and that. they should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the world; and that they would own him for a father to them as long as
they lived.

"Well," says the captain, "1 must' go and bell the governor what you my,
and see \v'nntl can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he had found them in; and lhnt he verily believed they
would be faithful.

However that we might he very secure, I told him he should go hack again,
and choose out five of them, and tell them, that they should see that they (lid not.
want men; but he would take out those live to be his assistants, and that the
governor would keep the other two, and the three that were sent yrizol'ieis to the
castle (m|\,r cave), as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that, if Lliey pmved
unfaithful in lhe execution, the live hostages should he hanged. in ehuins alive
upon the whore.

This looked sworn, nncl convinced them that. the governor was in earnest:
however, they haul no way left; but. to accept it; and it wns now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to poisuade the other five to do
their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :---l. The captain, his
mate, and passenger. 2. Then the two prisonem of the first gang, to whom,
having their chai'aciom from the captain, Iliad given their liherly, and trusted
them with arms. 3. The other two whom I kept till now in my bower pinioueil,
but, noon the esptfin's niol-ion,1md now been released. 4. These five released
at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides live we kept prisoners in the cave
for hostages. '

I asked the captain if he was willing to ventum with these hands on board
the ship: for, as for me and my man Friday, I did not. think it was proper for us
to Stir, having seven men left behind; and it was employment enough for us to
keep them asunder, zunl supply them with victmxls.

252
 

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast; but Friday went
twice a-day to them, ('0 supply them with necessarias; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a. certain distance, where Friday was to take it.

When I showed myself to [lie two hostages, it was with the captain, who mld
them I was the person the governor hml ordered to look after mom, and that it
wax the governor's pleasure that they should not stir any where but by my
direction; that if they did, they should be hatched into the castle, and be laid in
irons; so that>> as we never suiferexl them to see we as governor, so I now appeared
as another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the
like, upon all occasions.

 

The captain now had no Jinimihy before him, but to Furnish his two boats,
stop the breach of one, and man (he-m: he made his passenger captain of one,
with four other men ; and himself and his mate, and five more, went in the other;
and they contrived their business vmy well, for they came up to the ship about
midnight. As soon as they came Within call of the ship, he mzule {Robinson hnil
them, and tell them he had brought OK the men and the host, but that it was a
long time before they had found them, and the like, holding them in a chat till
they mm: m the ship's side; when the captain and the mate, entering first
with their arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with
the butt end of their mnskets. Being very faithfully seconded by thei r men, they
seamed all the rest that were: upon the main and quarter decks, and began to
fasten the hatches to keep those down who were below ; when the other boat and
 

their men, entering at the forechains, seemed the fonecasile of the ship, and the
sculfle, which went down into the ooclwoom, making three men they found them
prisonam.

When this was done, and all sail: upon the (lock, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to hronl: into the round-house, where the new rebel captnin lay,
and, having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and, with two men and a boy, had
gotlcn firoarms in their hands; and when the mate with a crow split open the
door, the new captain and his men limd boldly among them, and wounded the
mete with a musket-ball, which broke his mu, and wounded two more of the men,
but killed nobody.

The male, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded
as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through the hend, the bullion
onlcring at his mouth, and came out sgain behind one of his ears, so that he never
spoke :1 word; upon which the rest yielded, and the ship 'was taken efloctixally
without any more lives being lost.

As soon as the ship was thus scanred,'the captain ordered seven guns to he
fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success;
which, you may he sure, I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the
shore for it till nom- two of tho clock in the morning.

Ewing thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been
a. day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprised
with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a, man call me by
the name of " Governor, governor l" and presently. I, know the captain's
Voice; when climbing up to the top of" the hill, there he stood, and pointing to
the ship, he embraced me in his arms: "My dear friend and deliverer!" says
he, "there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that belong in
her." I cast. my eyes to the ship, and there she rode within a little mom ihan
half a mile of the shore--for they had weighed hot anchor as soon as [hay
were masters of hon--and the weather being fair, had brought Mar to an anchor
just againstthe month of a little creek; and the tide bring up, the captain had
brought the pin name in near the place whom I first landed my rafts, and so lauded
just at my door.

I was, st first, ready to sink down with the surprise: for I saw my delivoz'anca
indeed visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and n. large ship ready to curry
mo whither I pleased to go. At first, for some lime, I was not able to answer
one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I hold fast by him, or I should
have fallen to the ground.

Ho perceived the surprise, and innnediately pulled A bottle out. of his pocket,
and gm-'e me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me: afler
I drank it, I 83$ dorm upon the ground, and though it brought me to myself, yet
it was a good while before] could spook 9. word to him.

All this while the poor mm was in as great on eretnov, as I, only not. under
any surprisa, as I was; and he said u thousand kind tender things to me, to
compose and bring me to mysoll" ; but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that
it put all my spirits inm confusion--4t last. it broke into tears, and in a little while
aller I recovered my speech.

Then 1 tool: my turn, and embraced him as my deliver-or; and we rejoiced
together. I told him I looked upon him as a men sour. from Heaven to deliver
1: ., and that the whole Unusual-ion seemed to ho a train of wonders; that. such
things as (hose. were tho testimonies we haul of a secret. hand of Proi'idence
governing the world, and. an evidence that. the eyes of an infinite power could
sezxroh into the rommx'st corner ol' the worlrl, and send help to the misrrrldo
whenever he pleased.

I for-ml not to liftup my heart in thauilsfulness to Heaven; and what. heart
could forboar to bless him, who had not only in 9. miraculous manner provider] for
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition, but from whom every
deliverance must, always be acknowledgol to proceed?

When he had Inllretl awhile, the captain role!~ me, he had brought me some
little refreshments, such as the ship denied, and such as tho vn'otchcs, who hm!
been so long his masters, hail not plunderml him of. Upon this. he called aloud to
the boat, and bids his men bring the things ashore than. were for the governor;
and indeed it was a present as if I had been one, not that l was to be carried
along with them, but as if I haul been to dwell upon the island still and they wore
to go without mo.

First, he had brought, me a case of bottles full of oxocllent cordial waters ;
six large bottles of Madeira wine, the botties hold two quarts :vpiuce; two
pounds of excellent- good (ohnooo, twelve good pieces of the ship's hoof, and six
pieces of pork, with. a bag; of peas, and about: a hmnired weight. of biscuit.

He brought me also a box of sugar, at box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and
two bottles of limojnice, and abundance of other things: but besides those, and
what was :1 thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six clean now shirts,
six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one
pair of stockings, and it very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but rory little. In a word he clothed me from head to foot.

It was a very kind and ngmeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in
my circumstances; but never vmn any thing in the world of that kind so un-
pleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at their first
putting on.
Afier these ceremonies passed, and after all his good things were brought
into my little apm'tment, we began to consult what- wns 14) be done with tho
prisoner-a we had; for it was worth considering whather we might venture to
take them away with us or no, sspecially two of" them, whom we knew to he
incorrigible and refractory to the last degree; and the captain said, he knew
they were such rogues, that there was no. obliging them; and if he (lid cm'ry
tlzem away, it must be in irons, as mnlci'nctom, to he delivered overt/o justice at
the first English colony he could come at; and I found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it.

Upon this, I :0ch him, that, if he desired it, I duTSl.' undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave them
upon the island. "I should he very glad of that," says the cnphiin, "with nil
my heart."

"Well," said I, " I will send for them, and talk with them for you:" so 'i
causal Friday and the two hostages--for they were no"r (lisehm'ged, their
comrades having perfcmncd their liromisc--I say, I caused them to go to the
cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came.

After some time, I came thither dressed in my new habit, and now I was
called governor again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused the
men to he brought before me, and I told them, I had had a full account of their
villauous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies; but that Providence hadeusnnrcd them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which
they had digged for others.

I let them know, that by my direction the ship had been seized, ihat she lay
now in the road, and. they might 5w by and by, that their new captain had
received the reward of his \rillaNy; for 1.th they might see him hanging at the
yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they had to say, why I
should not execute them an pirates Iaken in the lhci, as by my commission they
could not doubt I had authoriiy to do.

      
   
   
   
      
  
 
   

 

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing to say
but this, that when the] were taken, the captain promised them thch' lives, and
they humhly implored my mercy: but I told them [ knew not what mercy to
show them ; for, as for myself, I hnd resolved to quit. the island with all my men,

257
 

and had taken passage with the captain to go for England: and as for the captain,
he could not carry them to England, other than an pn'soneis in irons to be tried
for m u i-i ny, and running away with the ship, the consequence of which they must
needs know, would he the gallows; :30 that I could not tell what was the best for
them, unless they had nmind to take their fate in the island: if they desired
that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it: I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought [hey could shift on shore. They seemed very
Lhamhful lor-- i(-; said they would much rmlmr venture to my them, than he
eiu'ried to England to be hanged : so I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of. it, as if he durst not.
leave them there; upon this, I seemed a, liLLlo. angry with the captain, and mid
him that they were my prisoners, not his; and that, seeing I had m'l'cred them
so much favour, I would be as good as my word; and that if he (lid not think fit
to (summit to it, I. would set them an. liberty as I found them 5 and, if he did not
like that, he might take them again if he could catch them.

U pan this, they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at. liberty,
and bade them retire into the woods, to the plaice whence they came, and I would
icon-'0. them some fire-mus, some ammunition, and some directions how they
should live very well, if they thought fit.

Upon this, I prepared to go on board the ship, but told the captain that. I
would stay that. night to prepare my things; and desired him in go on board in
the meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore the next
(in): for me; ordering him, in the meantime, to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at (he yard--Mn, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent'for the men up to me to my aim-mm,
and entered seriously into discourse with than: of their cirmlmslmmes. I told
rhem, ] thought Lhey had made :1. right choice : that, if the mpmin carried
them away, they would certainly be hanged : I showed them their caplniu,
hanging at the yard arm of the ship, and told them they had nothing less tu
expect. .

When they all declared their willingness to stay, I then told them I would let.
them into the story of my living there, and put them into the way of making it
easy to them : accordingly, I gave them the whole history of tho place, and of my
coming to it: showed {ham my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted
my corn, enrcrl my grapes, and, in a word, all that was necessary in make them
easy. I told them the story of the sixteen SPeulliu'ClS, that were to be expected;
for whom I left a. letter, and made them promise to tie"; them in common with
themsglves.

I left them my fire-arms, namely, five muskees, three fowlingvpiccos, and
 

three swordsfl lizul ohm): a barrel of powder left; for after the first year or
two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way
I managed the gents, and directions to milk and fatten them, to make both
butter and cheese.

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story; and I told them I
would prevail with the captain to leave them two liarmls of gunpowder more, and
some garden scecl, which I told them 1 would he very glad of ; also I gave them
the bag of peas which the captain hnd brought me to eat, nml lmde them he sure
to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board the ship, \re
preparul immediately to snil, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two of the five men came swimming to the ship's side, and, making it most
lamentnblc complaint of the other three, begged to he taken into the ship for
God's sake, for they should be murdered; and begged the captain to take them
on board, though he linnged them iunnerlinmly.

Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power without me: but after
some (lilliculty, and after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken
on board, and were, some time after, soundly whipped>> and pickled; after which
the)r proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Sometime. after this, I Went with the boat on shore, the tide being up, with
the things promised to the men, to which the captain, nt my intercession, caused
their chest. and clothes to be added, which they took, and were very thankful for:
I also encouraged them, by telling them, that if it lay in my way to send a. vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on hoard'for relics the great. gout-
skin cup I had made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also, I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lni n by me. so long useless that
it. was grown rusty, or tarnished, und could hardly pass for silver, till it. haul been
a little rubbed and handled; and also the money I found in the wreck oi" the
Spanish ship. _

And thus I left the island the 19th day of December, as I found by the ship's
account, in the year 1686, aft/er I had been upon it eiglil--nnd--twenty years, two
months, and, nineteen. (lays; lining delivered from the second captivity the same
(lay of the month that I first made my escape in the bnrcolongo from among the
Moors of Sallee.

In this vessel, after :1 long voyage, I arrived in England the 11th of J nut: in
the year 168 7, having been thirty and five years absent.

When I came to England, I was a. perfect stranger to all the world, as if I
had never been known there ; my benefactor, and faithful steward, whom I had
 

left in trust with my money, was alive, but. had had great misfortunes in [he
woxld, was become a. widow the second time, and very low in the world. I made
her easy as to what. she owed me, assuring he: I Would give her no trouble ; but,
on the contrary, in gratitude to her fonnei' can: and faithfulness to me, I i'eliovod
her as my little stock would all'onl, which at that time would, indeed, allow me
to do but little for her; but I assured her I would never forget, her former
kindness to me; nor did I forget her when I had suficient to help her, as shall
be observed in its place.

I went do'wn nllnrwnrds into Yorkshire, but my father was dead, end my
mother and all the family extinct, except that I (build two sis-Leis, and two of the
children of one of my brothers: and as I had been long ago given over for dead,
there had been no provision made for me ; so that, in a word, I found nothing to
relieve or assist me, and that little money I had would not do much for me as to
settling in the. world.

I met with one piem of gratitude, indeed, which I did not Expect; and this
was, that the master of the ship whom .I hml so happily delivered, and by the
game means saved the ship and cargo, having given a. very handsome ncmunl to
the owners of the manner how I lmrl saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
they invited me to meet them and some other merchants mnccmed, and altogether
made me :1 very handsome compliment upon that. subject, xmcla present of almost
two hundred pounds sterling.

Bur, alter mulling several reflections upon the circumstances of my life, and
how little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go in
Lisbon, and soc if I might not come by some information of the slate of my
plantation in the. lit-azilg and what was become of my partner, wlm, I had reason
to suppose, had some years now given me over for dead.

W ilh this view I took shipping fol-Lisbon, where I arrived in April following,
my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proving a most. Faithful servant upon all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular-
aatisl'aetion, my old friend the captain of the ship, who first took me up at see all
the coast of Africa: he was now grown old, and had left 03' the sea, having put
his son, who was far from a young man, into his ship, and who still used the
Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly know him;
but I soon brought myself to his remembrance when I told him who I was.

After some pasaionute expressions of our old ncqnnintance, I inquired, you
may be sure, all/er my plmimtion and my partner. The old man told me hnd not
been in tho Emails for about nine years; but that he could assure me that, when
he came away, my partner was living, but the trustees, whom I had joined with
255')
him to take cognisauce of my part, were both (land ; that, however, he believed
that I would have a very good account of the improvement of this plantation, for
that, upon the general belief of my baing cast away and drowned, my trustees
hurl given in the account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the
procurator fiscal, who hurl appropriated it, in case I never czuue to claim it, one
third to the king, and two--thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic faith ; but that if I appeared, or any one for me, toclaim the inherihuwo,
it would be restored, only that the impmvenmnl, or annual production, being
distributed to charitable 1159:, could not bu restored ; but. he assured me than the

steward of the king's revenue (from lands), and the provctlore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken grant cure llll along that the incumbent, that is [0 say, my

partner, gave every year It faithful account. of the produce, of which they
received duly my moiety.

I asked him, if he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the
plantation; and whether he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether,
on my going; thither, I. should meet with no obstruction to my possessing my just
fight in the moiety.

He told me, he could not tell cxucely to what degree the plantation WM
improved; but this he knew, that my partner was growing excemlingly rich upon
the enjoying huc one half of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, ha

261
  

 

 

 

 

had heard that the king's third of my part, which was, it soems, granted away to
some other monastery, or religious house, amounted to above two hundred moidorcs
u-ycur; that, as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no
question to he made of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my
name heiug also enrolled in the register of the country. Also he told me, that the
survivors of my trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he
believed I would not. only have. their assistance for putting me. in possession, hm.
would find a very comiderohlo sum of money in their hands for my account, being
the produce of the farm whfle their fathers holdlflio mist, and licforo it was given
up, as above, which, as he remembered was about involve years.

I showed myself olittle concerned and uneasy at. this account, and inquired
of the old captain how it come to puss, flint the nustcm should thus dispose
of my efl'ects, when he knew that] had made my will, and had made him, the
Portuguese captain, my universal heir, 550.

He told me that was true; but that, as there was no proof of my being dead,
he could not act as executor wiiil some certain account should come of my death;
and that, besides, he was not. willing to intormccldlc with a thing so remote: that
it was true holmd rcgistemd my will, and put in his claim; and could he have
given any account of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procumtiou,
and taken possession of the iiiga'no (so they called the sugarvlzouse), and had given
his son, who was now at the Brazlls, order to do it.

" But," says the old man, "I have one piece of news to tell you, which
perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as the rest, and that is, that believing
you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees (lid
offer to account to um. in your name, for six or eight of the final years of profit,
which 1 received; L-uL their being at that time," says he, "great disbursements
for increasing the works, building on iwgsom, and buying the slaves, it did not
amount to near so much Ens afterwards it produced; however," says the old man,

"I shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how, I have

dispom-d of it."

Aflex' a few rluj's' further conference with this uudcnt friend, he brought me
an account of the six first yczu's' income of my plantation, signed by my pnrfncr
and the gicitlmno-n'ustecs, being always delivered in goods, namely, tohncco
in 1'0", and sugar in chests, besides mm, molasses, &c., which is the consequence
of cougar-work; and I found by this account, that every year the income cou-
sidcrahly increased : but, us chore, tho disbumements heiug large, the sum at first
was small: however, the old man let me see that he was debtor to mo four
hundred and seventy moidoros of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, mid fil'lecn
double rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, be having been ship-

202
 

wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving the
place.

The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had
been ohligod to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a.
share in a. new ship. " However, my old friend," says he, " you shall not want a.
Suppl}r in your necrssity, and as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied.

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me two hundred Tortugal
moidm'es in gold; and giving me the writings of his title to the ship which his
son was gone to tho Brazils in, of which he wns n. quarter part owner, and his eon
another, ho puts them both in my hands for security of the rest.

Iwas too mnch moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man, to
be able to hem: this; and, remmnhering what he had done for me, how he had
taken me up at sea, and how generously ho hall used me on all occasions, and
particularly how Sim-ore a friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain.
weeping at what he said to me; therefore, first, I asked him if his circumstances
admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if it would not stroitcn
him? He told me, he could not say but it might straiten him a. little; but
however, it was my money, and .I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could hardly refrain
from tears while he spoke. In short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them; then I returned him the
rest, and told him, if ever I had possession of the plantation, I would return the
cilia: to him also, as indeed I afterwards did ; and that, as to the hill of snlo of
his part, in his son's ship, 1 would not take it by any moans; but that if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came
to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny morn
from him.

When this was past, the old man began to ask me, if he should put- me on a
method to make my claim to my plantation. I told him, I thought to go om:
toitmyself. He said, I might do so if I pleased; but that il'I did not, there
were ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits
to my use ; and as there' were ships in the river of Lisbon, just, ready to go away
to Brazil, he made mo enter my name in a public register, with thizs affidavit,
nfiirming upon oath that 1 was alive, and that I was the same person who took up
the land for the planting the said pldulati on at first.

This lining regularly attested by a notary, and a procnration afiixod, ho
dimmed. me to send itwilh a. letter of his writing, to at merchant of his so-
quaintnnco at the place; and then proposed my staying with him till an account
came of the return.
 

 

 

Never miylhing was more honourable than the proceedings upon this pro-
cnmtion; for in less than seven months, I received a large packet from the
survivors of my'trustces, the merchants, on whose nccoum I went to sen, in
which were the following particular lettem and papers enclosed :--

First, There was the Meltonnbcument of the produce of my farm, or planta-
tion, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal
captain, being for six yams; the Miami: appeared to be one thousand one
hundred and seventy--Emr moidores in my favour.

Secondly, There was the account of four years more while they kept the
eil'ects in their hands; hefone the government. claimed the mlministmtion, as being

 

tho effects of :1 poison not. m he found, which the}r call bivil death, aznl the
balance of this; the value of the plantation increasing, amounted to three.
thousand two hundred and forty-one 'moidores.

Thir<lly, There was the prior of the Augustine's account, who had received
the profits of about fourteen years ; but not being; able to account for what was
disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight. hundred and seventy
two mnidm'es not distributed, which he. acknowledged to my account. As to the

 

king's part, that refimclml nothing.

There was also :1 letter of my partner's, congratnlnting the very affectionately
upon my being alive; giving me an account. how the estate was improved, and
what it prodnnnrl firszu". with a particular of the nunihcr of squares, or acres,
that it contained; how planted, how many slaves there were upon it; 31"],VADvum-uxms 0E noumsox cwsonfififl

__..--_.~..._~ . V _ J.._ __

Cg?
making two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, told mo. he had said so many 15

Ave "arias to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was nii : invih'ng me vary {1
passionately to come over and take possession of my own, and in the meantime '3:
>>

[many and me am.)

to give Order-5 to whom he should deliver my efi'ects, if I did not. come myself;
concluding with a hearty icndcr of his friendship, and that. of" his family:
  
 

 

and sent me as a present, seven fine leopard skins, which he had, it sesmy
received l'rom Africa by nouns ether ship which he had sent thither; and who,
it seems, had made a better voyage than I. He sent mo also five chests of
cxcellunt sweatmmcs, and n hundred views of gold nucoined, not quite so

   

 
 
  

largn as nmidoms.
By the same fleet my merchant-trustees shipped me twelve hundred chests
of sugar, eight: hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rm 01' the whole account in

 
 
    
 

will.

5 I might well 521}' now, indend, that the laitm' end 0f Job was befier than the
beginning. It is impwihle to express the illll.i(:rings of my very hem, when I
looked Over Lhasa. litters, and especially when I found all my wealth about me, for
as the lh'avsil ships name all in fleets the sauna ships which brought my letters
brought. my goods; and the effects were sail; in the Tagds before the letter came
to my hand. In a word, I turned pzile, and grew nick; and had not the old mm)
mm and {esched me u cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had ovensct
nature, and I had diedupon the spot. -

 
 
    
   
   
   
    
    
 

Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till (1 physician
being senl. for, and something of the real cause of my illness lming known, he
ordered mo. to he let blood, after which I had relief, and grew well; but I verily
believe, if it had not been eased by the vent. given in that manner to the spirits,
I slunuid have died.

1 was now master, all of a sudden, of <<have fifty thousand pounds sterling in
money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the Brnzils, of above a
thousand pnunda 3-year, as sure ns mi estate of lands in England; and, in a
Word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how in
C(Impuze myseif l'nr Lho enjoymwt of.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original benefaclnr, my good old
cnpesin, who had been first- charitable to me in my distress, kind In me in the
beginning, and honest to me at the end. I, showed him all-that was sent to me;
I told him, that, next to tho providence of Heaven, which disposes all things, it
was owing to him; and that it naw lay on me to reward him, which I would do
an hundred fold. So I first returned to him ihe hnndrcrl moiclorcs I had received
of him _: than I sent lbr :1 noun-y, and caused him to draw up a general release or
disc Hg: for the four hundred and seventy moidorcs, which he had acknow-
ledged he owed me, in the fullest and firms: manner possible; after which I
caused a procnrmiun to be drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, nnd appointing a partner to account to him, and
make {he returns by the usual fleets in him in my name; imd a clause in the and,
being it grant of one hundmd moidnrea unycar to him in his life, out of the
ell'ects: and fifty moidores aryeor to his son after him, for his life. And thus I
reqnited my old man.

I wns now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to do with
the esmte that Providence had thus put into my hands ; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my hand now than I haul in my silent state ol' life in the island, Where
I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas
I had now u glut charge upon me, and my business was how to secure it: I had
never a. core to hide my money in, or 9. place where it might lie without lock or
key, till it grew mouldy and tarnirhed before any body would meddle with it.
On the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it ; my old
patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I had.

In the next. place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon mo thither:
but now I could not tell how to think of going thither till I had settled my
nffainl, and left my et'fmts in some hands behind me. At first I thought. of my
old'fl'ie-ml the widow, who, I knew, was honest, and would be just. to me; but
then she was in years, and but poor, nud for ought I knew, might be in debt; so
that, in n word, I had no way but to go back to England myself, and take my
effects with me.

I was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and, therclbre, us
I had rewarded the old captain 1' ully and to satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of'thu poor widow, whose-lmshand had been my
first benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward and
iurtruelor. So the first thingl did, I got u merchant in Lisbon to write to his
correspondent in London, not only to pay a hill, but to go fiml her out, and carry
her in money :1 hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort her
in her novelty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further snpnly. :\t
the sums time, I sent my two sisters in the country, each of them a hundred
pounds, they lacing, though not in want, yet not in very good circumstmwos--onc
having been married, and loll; a Widow ; and tho other having a husband not so
kind in her as he should bu.

But among all my relations or acqnniutmices, I could not yet pitch upon one
to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might go away to tho
Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and this gently perplexed mo.

1 had once a mind to have gone to tho limzila, and have settled myself there,
for I was, as it were, naturalised to the place; but I had some little sample in my
mind about religion, which insensihly drew me buck, of which I shall say more
presently. However, it was not religion that kept me from going thither for the
1'1'956'11'53 and as I had made no scruplo of being openly ol' the religion of the
country, all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that now and
 

then, having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began to think of
living and (lying mnong them, I began to regret my having professed myself a
Papist, and thought it might not he the host religion to (lie in.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from going to
the Brnzils, hut. that really I did not know with whom to leave my efi'ects behind
mo; so I resolved at last to go to England with them, where, if I arrived, I
concluded I should make some acquaintance, or find some relations, that would
be faithful to me; and accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my
wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brazil fleet being

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

just going away) resolved to give answers suitable to the just and faithful
account of things I had from thence; zuid fix-51, to the prior of St. Augnstine
I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings, and the olIer of the eight
launch-ed and seventy-hm moiilorus, which were nndisposerl of, which I desired
might be given, five hundred to the monastery, and three lmnrlrorl and seventy-
two lo (he poor, as the prior should direct, desiring the gum] padre's prayers for
me, and. the like.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledg-
ment that so much anticc and honesty mllcd for; as for sending them any

 
 
  
  
 
 
 

present, the)r were far above having any occasion of it.

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the improving
the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock of the works; giving
him instructions for the future government of my part according to the powers
I had lcil. with my ohl patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became
due to me, till he simuld hear from me more particularly; assuring him, that it
was my intention, not only to come to him, but to settle myself there for the
mmm'nder of my life. To this I added a very handsome present of some Italian
silks for his wife and two (brighten--for such the captain's son informed me he
hall--With two pieces of fine English broad-cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon,
1i re pieces of black brain, and some Flanders lacc of a good value.

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  

Having thus settled my affaiis, sold my cargo, nnuzl turned all my effects into
good hills of exchange, my next difficulty was which way (0 go to England.
I had been accustommi enough to the sea, and yo: 1 hnrl a strange aversion to
go to England by sea. at llmt (ime : and though T could give no reason for it, yet
the difficulty increased upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my

baggage in order to go, yet I shared my mind, and that not once but two or
three times.

   
 
 
  

It is true, I hml been very unfortunate by sea, nnrl this might be one of the
reasons. an let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases
  
  

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

  

 

of such moment. Two of the ships which I had singled out to go in--I mean
more particularly singled out than any other, that is to say, so as in one of them
to put my things on board, and in the other to have agreed with the captain--l
say, two of these ships miscarried, namely, one was taken hy the Algerinea, and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torlmy, and all the people drowned
except thine; so that in either of those vessels, I had been made miserable, and
in which most, it. was hard to say.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I com-
municated every thing, pressed mo earnestly not to go by sea; but. either to go by
land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence
it was but an easy and safe journey by land in Paris, and so to Calais and. Dover;
or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way hy land through France.

In a word, 1 was so prepossesscd against my going by sen at, ull, except from
Calais to Dovor, that I resolved to travel all the way by land : which, as I was
not in haste, and did not. value the charge, was by much the plousanter way; and
to make it more so, my old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of
a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me; after which, we.
picked up two who were English, and merchants also, and two young Portuguese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only: so that we were in all six of us, and
live servants, the two merchants and the two Portuguese contouring themselves
with one servant- hetwaen the two, to save the charge : and as for me, I got on
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was
too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a servant upon the
road.

In this mannerl set out From Lisbon: and our company being all very well
mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour to
call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man us because I had two
servants, and indeed was the original of the whole journey.

AsI have troubled you with none of my seat journals, so shnll I trouble you
with none of my land journals. But some adventures that happened to us in
this tedious and difficult journey, I must not omit.

When we come to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain, were willing
to may some time to see the cowl. of Spain, mid to see what was worth
observing; hut. it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened away, and
set out from Madrid about the middle of October. But when We came to the
(xige of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several towns on the way, with an account
that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pumpeluna, after having attempted, at an
extreme hazard, to pass'om

269
When we came to Pompeluna itself, we found it so indeed; end-to me, that
had been always used to a hot climate, and indeed to countries where we could
scarce hear any clothes on, the cold was insnfi'crable ; nor, indeed, was it more
painful than it was surprising; to come but ten days before'ont of Old Castilo,
where the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel 9.
wind from the Pyrencan mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to he
intolerable, and to endanger hcnnmhiog and porishing of our fingers and toes,
was very stmign. -

Poor Friday was real];' irighi/ened when ho saw the mountains all covered
with snow, and (on, cold weather, which he had never seen or feltbefore in his life.

To mend. the mailer, afier we came to anpclnna, it continued snowing with
so much violence, and so long, khat the people said winter was come before its
time; and the roads, which were difficult before, were now quite impassable: in a
word, the snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel; and being not hard
frozen, as is the case in northern countries, there was no going without being in
danger of being buried alive every step. "'e stayed no loss than Monty daya at.
Pmnpclnna: when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood ofits being
better, for-ii: wow the Soverest winter all over Europe that hail been known in
many years) I proposed that we should all go away to Fonim'ubia, and there take
shipping for Bordwvx, which was a very little voyage.

But While we were considering this, there came in four French gentlemen, who,
having been stopped on the French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish,
had found out a. guide, who, traversing the country near the head of Lmignedoc,
had brought them over the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
inconnnodul with the snow; :uid whom they met with snow in any quantity,
they said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us, he would undertake to carry us the same
way with no hazard from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to'
protect us from wild bean a: for, he said, upon these great snows, it was frequent
for some wolves to show themselva at the foot of the mountains, being made
ravenous for want of food, the ground lacing covered with snow. We told him
we. were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if he would ensue
us from a. kind of two-legged waiver, which we were told we were in most-
dunger from, especially on the French side of the mornnains. '

He satisfied us there Was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to
go; so we readily agreed to follow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen with
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go,
and were obliged to come back again. ,

Accordingly, we all set out from Panipoluna, with our guide, on the 15th ol'Mommw . . .

__.=_ .WWW.
Wei-".I'me; -

$3993"

3:

  

ri-

 
 
 

sitar/r

 
 

ADVENTURES '01? ROBINSOSI CRUSOE,

 

 

November; and indeed 1 WM surprised, when, instead oi'going forward, he come
directly hack with us, on the same maxi that we came from h'Ia-zlrid, above twonly
miles; when having passed two virus and come into the plain country, we found
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country was pleasant nnd no snow
to he soon; but on a sudden, turning to the loll, he approached the mountains
another way; mid, though, if is true, the hills and the precipicrslouked dmmli'nlly,
ym, he made so many tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we
insensibly passed the height of the mountains, without. being much encumbered
with the snow; and all on a. sudden he showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces
of Lauguedoc and Gascoignc, all green and flourishing; though indeed they were
at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.

W's were a little uneasy, however, when on found it snowed one whole day
and a night, so fast that. we could not trnvcl; but he hnde us he easy, we should
soon he past it. all. We found, indeed, that we hogan to descend every day, and
to Como mom nnrlh than before ; and so, depending on our guide, we wont. on.

It was almnt'two hours before night when our guide, being something before
in, and not. just in sight, out rushed three monstrous: wolves, and after them a
hour, out of a, hollow way, adjoining to n thick wood. Two of the wolves flew
upon the guide, and lmd he been half o miie before us, he had been devoured
indeed, before we could have helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse,
and the other attached the man: with that violence, that he had not time, or not
presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hailooed and cried out to us most
lustily. My insn Friday being next to me, I bade him ride up, and see wind; was
the matter. AS Boon as Friday Came in sight of the man, he haliooed as loud as
the other, "Oh muster! 0h iuasicr!"---hut_lihe n hold fellow, rode directly up
to the man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in the head.

it was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for he, having
been used to that kind of creature in his counting had no fear upon him, but Went
close up to him, and shot him as ohm-e ; whereas any of us would have fired at a
farther distance, and perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the
man.

But it. was enough to have terrified a. holder man than I, and indeed it alarmed
all our company, when, wiLh the noise of Fridny's pistol, we heard on both sides
the dismnlost howling}: of wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the
mountains, thai it was to us as if them had been a. prodigious multitude ofthem ;
and, perhaps, indeed, there was not. such a few as that we had no cause of
apprehension. _

However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other, that had fastened upon the
horse, left. him immediately, and fled, having happily fintened upon his head, where
 

the bosses of tho hridle hail stuck in his teeth, so that. he had not dono him much
hurt: the man, indeed, was most hurt; for the raging creature hail hit him twine,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his knee; and he was just us it
were tumbling down by the disorder of the horse, when Friday came up and shot
tho. wolf.

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all mended mn-
pnce, and rode up as fast as tho way (which was verydillicult) would give us loam,
to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear of the trees which blinded-
us before, we saw plainly what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged
the poor guide; though we did not presently discern what kind of creatiu-e it was

he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising manner,

as that which followeu netwccn Friday and the bear, which gave us all (though
at first we were surprised and iii mid for him) the greatest diversion imaginable.
As the hear is a heavy, clumsy creatnm, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
which is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities, which generally :me
the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are not his proper prey--I say, not
his proper prey, because, though I can't say what excessive hunger might (lo,
which was now their casc,_the ground being all covered with snow; yet as to men,
he does not usually attempt them, unless: they first attack him; on the contrary,
if you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with him, he won't meddle
with you: yet then you mm: take care to he van citil to him, and give him the
mad, for he 15 a ver) nice gentleman; he won't go it step out of the way fox 9
'prince--nay, if you are really afraid, you: best way is to look another way, andA ~ ' - s a." _

LY .VVADYENTURES on nonmsou CRUSUH.

 

 

 

keep going on; for sometimes, if you stop, nnul stand still, and look slemll'nstly
at him, he takes it for an affront, and if you throw or toss anything at. him, and
it hits him, though it were but. a bit of stick ma big as your finger, hp lakes il. for
an afl'i'ont, and sols all other luminess aside in pumue his revenge; for he will
have satisfaction in point of honom; and this is his first quality : the next is, that.
if he be ouce afl'mnmrl, he will never leave. yon, night or day, till he has had his
revenge, but follow at a. goorl round rate till he m-eriakes you.

[The Hammer film {he "'olmfj

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we cnmo up to him, he
was helping him oh' from his home; for the man was both hurt and li'ighlerl, and
inclccrl the last. more than the first; when, on a sudden, we ospicrl the bear come
out of the wood, and a, very monstrous one it was, the biggest by Fir that ever I
Saw. .W'e were all a. little surprised when we saw him; but when Friday saw
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's countenance: " Oh! Oh!- Wmsugmmmwfiemes'

ADVENTURES (111' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

0111- ,, says F11'cl;1y,tla1eeti11ms pointing k1_l:i111,"011 master; you give me (.6
101110 1111: shal cc to hand with him, me 11111111111 you good lau-rh.

I 1111s surprised to see the fellow .so Pleased : " You fool yo11,"s11SSt.l I, " he will
out you upl"--" Eufee me up! eulee me up!" says Friday twice over again
"111:2 cntcc him up; 11111 11111311331111 good laugh; you all stay here, me show you
51001125111141." 50 down he sits, and gels his boobs off in a'momcnlz, and put on a.
pair of pumps (as we call the: flat shoes they wear), and which he had in his

 

packet, and gives my other servant his horse, and wiLh his gun away he flew,
swift like the wind.

The bcm' was walking softly 011, and offered to meddle with 1101101137, till Friday,
Gaming pretty 115111 calls to him as if the 11931: could understand hi 111: " Hark yo!
hurl: ye l" says Friday, " 1111! sprahee wit you." "'1: followml at a (lismn'cc; for
now being come (lawn to the Gmcoiano. side of the 11101111t11i11a, we were entered 11
11M meat forcsl, where the cmnery was plain, $11111 111e1 1t_r open, though 1111111}!
11cc. in it scnucreil here and there. _

Friday, who had, as we say, the: heels of the bear, came up with him quickly,
2111:! takes up a. great stone, and throws all him, 5111!] hit him just on the hand, but
tlixl him 110 111011: 11111111 than if he had thrown it. against a. wall : but it answcrml
Friday's end: {111- the roa'nc was so void of War, that he did it purely to make the
hem lollorr him, and show us some laugh as he called 11.

As sown as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he 1111-11: about, 11ml come.
after him, taking devilish long; strides, 111111 shnilii 11g along at a strange rate, so as
he. would put a horse to a. middling gallop. Away runs Friday, and takes his
comso as if he ran towards us for help; so we all resolved to fire :15. once upon
the hear, and deliver my man, though I was angry 111 him heartily for bringing;
the hear back upon 11:, when he was going about his business another way, and
especially I was nngry that he had fumed the beau- npon us, and then run away:
and I called out, "Yo11 clog," said I, " is this your making us laugh. Come may
and take your horse, that we may shoot Um creature." 110 110an me, 21ml cries
out, " \'o shoot, no shoot, stand still, mu get much lm1gh;" and 1121 the nimblu
mentmc 1:111 two feet fm Ihe heasfs one, he turned on 11 suduc 11 on one side of 11s
and seeing n gmnl. oak Ltee fit. for his pmpusu, he beckoned us to follow, 51ml,
doubling his pace, he gels nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the
ground, :11 11111111: five or .. x yards Pram the boil/.1111 of the tree.

The bear soon came m the tree, 1111cl1vci'ollo1vedut 11dismece. The first thing
he did, he stopped at the gun, smelled to ii7 but let it lie, and up he scl'm'nhlas
into the tree, cli111bing like a one, though 5:) monstrous heavy. I was amazed at
13111 folly, as I thuglit it, of my man, and could not for my life see any thing to
laugh at yet, till, seeing the bear get up tho. truss, we all rode nearer to him.nub>>: ." -w'
<<4,1531% warmly-u.

ADVENTURES O}? ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out. to the small of a large
limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the bear
got out. to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker, " Ha," snys ho to us,
" now you see me teaches the bear dance ; so he falls a--jumping and shaking the
bongh, at which the hem: began to toner, hut stood still, and hogan to look
behind him, to see how he should got back; than, indeed, we did laugh heartily.
But. Friday had not done with him by X1. great deal : when he sees him stand slill,
he calls out to him again, as if he had. supposed the bear could speak English,
"What! you come no i'nrlhcr'i Pray you come farther." So he left jumping
and shaking the hough: and the hear, just as if he understood what he said,
did come a little farther; than he fell a--jumphig again, and the bear stopped
again.

We thought now was a. good time to knock im on the head, and called to
Friday to stand still, and we. would shoot the bear; but he cried out. earnestly,
" Oh, pray! Oh, prayl no shnot, me shoot by and then"--he would have amid
by and bye. However, to shorten the story, Friday dance/l sn'mnch, and the
bear stood so ticklisli, that we had laughing enough, indeed, but still could. not
imagine what. the follow would do: for first we thought he depended upon
shaking the bear off, and we found the hear was too canning fur that. too; for he
would not get out far enough to be thrown down, but clings first with his grant
hmad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine whal- wonld he the end of it
and where the jest would be at last.

But ll'riday put us ouL of doubt quickly; for, seeing the bear cling inst to
the bough, and that he would not he persuaded to come any fnrthcr, "Well,
well," said Friday, "you come no farther, me go, me go; you no come to me, me
came to you -,"' and upon this he goes out to the smallest. end of the huugh, where
it would band with his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down
the hough till he came near: enough to j um]: down on his feet; and away he rim
to his gun, takes it up, and sunnla sl-ill.

"Well," said I in him, "Friday, what will you do now? "'hy don't you
shoot him?"---"Xo shoot," says Friday, "no yet; we shoot now me no hill;
me stay, give you one more laug ." And, indeed, so he did, as you will see
presently; for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from the. hmigh
where he stood, but did it mighty leisurely, looking behind him every step, and
'coxuing backward till he got into the body of the tree; then, with the same hinder
and foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his clmvs, and. moving one
font at a time, very leisurely. At. this juncture, and juse. before he could put his
hind feet upon the ground, 1' mlny stepped close in him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece into his ear, and shot him as dead as a. alone

215

  
  

ii.
 

Then the rogue turned about in 50:: if we did not laugh; and wlien'hc saw we
were pluued by our looks, he falls a--lnughing himself very loud--"So we kill
bear in my country," says Friday! " So you kill them 'e'" said I; " whyyou have
no guns."----" No," says he, " no guns, but shoot. great much long arrow."

This was indeed, a good diversion to us; but we were still in awild place, and
ourguidu very much hurt and what to do we hardly knew: the howling of
wolves run much in my hcnxl ; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the
shore of Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any thing
that filial me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night called us off, or else, as Friday would
have had us, we should curtainly have when the skin of this monstrous creature
off, which was worth saving; hut we had three leagues to go, and our guide
hnslonod us; so we left. him, mnl went- forward on our journey.

The ground was still covered with show, though not so (lap and dangerous as
on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were
come down into the forest and plain comitry, pressed by hunger, to seek fur
food, and had dono a great deal of mischief in the villgns, where they surprised
the country people, killed a grout many of their sheep and horsag and some
people loo.

We had one dangerous plant: to pass, of which our guide told us, if there
were any more wolves in the country, wo should find them there; and this was
a small plain, sumvunded with woods on every side, and a long narrow defile or
lane, Which we wan: to pin: to get through (he wood, and then we should come
to the village where we were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered tho first wood, and a
little after sunset when we came into the plain. W'e met with nothing in the
first wood, except that in a little plain within the wood, which was not above
two flu-longs over, we snw live guest wolves cross the road, full speed one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey, and had it in View: they took
no milieu of us, and were gone mul out ol'sight. in a. few moments.

Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a. wretuluyl faint-hearted fellow,
bade us keep in a ready postnro; For he believed there were more wolvea a--coming.

W'e kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw nu more wolves
till we came. through that wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain : as soon as we came into the plnin, we hurl mansion enough to look ahout
us. The first. object we met with was a dead horse, that. is to say, n. poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of them at work ; we could not
53)': eating of him, but picking of his bones rather ; for they had eaten up all the
flesh before.
 

"'6: (lid not think lit to disturb them at their feast, neither did they Lnkemuch
notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by
any means; for I found we were like to have more business uPon um: hands than
we were aware of. We. were not half gvne. over the plain, but we began to hem-
the wolves howl in the woods, on our lefi, in a. frighlflll manner; and presently
after we saw about a hundred coming on directly ton'ds us, all in a. body, and
muet of them in a line, a: regulm'ly as an army drawn up by cxpcfiencud officers.
I scarce knew in what manner to revolve them; but. found to draw ourselves in a.
close line, was the only way--~50 we formed in a moment; but that we might

   

not have toomuch interval, I ordered, that, only every other man almnld fire ; and
that the others, who had not limcl, should stand ready to give them a. second
valley immediately; if they continued. to advance upon us; and that then; those
who 1am l'n'ctl at first, should hot, pretend to load their fusils ngnin, but stand
ready, with every one a pistol, for no. were all armed with a I'usil and a. pair of
pistols each 1mm; so we wax-o, by this method, able to fire. six vollics, lmll'of' twat.

 

If; a. time'; however, at present we haul no nouesxsity, for upon firing the first volley,
$4 the enemymade a full stop, being terrified, as well with the noise as with the
l l - v .

* fire; four of them being shot in the head, dropped ; several others "are wounded,

and went bleeding ml, as we could see by the snow. 1 found they stopped, but

'3 (lid not immediately mtreztt; whereupon, remembering tlmtI had been told that
" . I .
3'3 the fiercest creatures Were terrified at the voice of :1 man, I caused all mu
4 am

 

. ibr'" '., W. "q 'wimfi'; _.SS . . '. Q%SS
company to hulloo as loud as we could, and I found the not-ion not altogether
mistaken; for upon our shout, they began to rot-ire and turn about: 'then I
ordered n second volley to he fired in their rear, which put them to the gallop,
and may they went to the woods.

Thisgavcus leisure to charge our peices again, and that we might lose no
time, we kept. going; but we had but little more. than loaded our fusils, and put
ourselves into a, readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the some wood on
our loll;E only that it, War farther onward the. some way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the night hegmi to be dusky, which made if:
the worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it
was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and on a sudden, we
perceived two or three troops of wolves on our left, one behind us, and one on our
front, so (hat we seemed to be surrounded with them; however, asthey did not
full upon us, we hoot our Way forward, as fast as we could make our horseu go,
which, the way being very rough, was only a good large trot: and in this mower
wo only came in View of the entrance of the wood through which we Were to puss,
ut- tho further side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when, coming
near the lane, or pass, We saw 9. confused number of wolves standing just at the

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

entrance.

On a sudden, at another binning ol' the wood, we heard the noise. of a. gun;
and looking that. way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on him flying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves mm him at, full speed: indeed,
the horse had. tlxeheels of them; but. as we supposed that he. could not hold it at
that. rate, we doubted not, but they would get up with him at last--and no
question but they did.

Here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to the entrance where the
horde came out, we. found Lhc carcass of; another horse, and of two men, devoured
by these ravenous ematm'es. One of them was no doubt, the some whom we
heard fire a gun, for there lny a gnu just; by him fired off; but as to the man,
his head, and the upper part of his body, were eaten up.

' 'his lillod us with horror, and we knew not what course to fake; but the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey;
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them. It- happened, very much
to our advantage, that at. the entrance to the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber tmes, which had been cut down the summer before, and I
mppme lay there for carriage. I drew my little lrooy in among these trees, and
placing ourselves in :1 line behind one long tree, I :ulvired them all to alight, and,
keeping that iron below; us for a breast. work, to stand in n mango, or three
fronts, enclosing our homes in-rhe centre.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
  

m".m-"jke '-. w. .. u '.""'"'A::'flfi'1'$*' .>> ,5-
ADVENTURES OI." ROBIKSON CRUSOE.

 

"'0 did so, and it was well we did ; for never was a more furious charge
tlmn the creature: made upon ms in this place : they came on us with a growling
kind of {L noise, and mounted the. place. of timber (which, as '[ said, was our
breactevork), as if they were only ruahing upon their prey; and this fury of
thuinl, it <<arms, was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us,
which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire as before, every
man; and they took their nim 5'.) sure, that indeed they killed several of the
wolves at the limivnllc} -
for they came on like devils, those behind pushing on those before.

When We had fired our second volley of fusils, we thought they stopped a
little, and I hoped they would have gone 0%; but it was but It momonl, for
others came iormu'd ngm'n, so we fired two volleys of pistols; and I believe in
them fuur firings we 'killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lanned twice as
many, yet they came on again.

 

but there was in necessity to keel' a continual firing,

 

I was loath to spend our he: shot too hastily: so I called my servant, not my
man Friday, for he 'wus better employed--for with the grentest dexterity
imngiuablu he charged my fusil and his own while we were engaged--but, us I
said, I called my other man, and, giving him it horn of powder, I bade him hi}.'
it train all along the piece of timber, smcl let it be u large train ; he did su,<1nd
had but time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were got up
upon it; when I, snapping an uncharged pisrol close to the powder, sut- it; on fire:
and those that. were. upon the timber were scorched with it, und six or seven of
them fall, or rather jumped in among m, with tho. force and fright of the five;
we despatched these in an instant, and the rest were so {lighted will! the light,
which the night, for now it. was very dark, made more Lcm'blo, that duty drew
back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last pistols m be fired all in one volley, and after
that we gave a shout : upon this, the wolves turned mil, and we sallied imme-
diately upon near twenty lame ones, which we found struggling on the ground,
and fell n--cutting them with our awards, which answnmcl our expectation; for
" the crying and howling they made were better understood by their fellow>>, so
that. they fled and left us.

We had, {inn and last, killed about dime-score of them ; and had it been
daylight, we had killed many more. The field of battle being thus cleured, we
made forward again for we had still near a league to gu. W'e heard the
mvenons creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went several times, and
sometimes we fancied we. saw some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes
we were not certain; so in about. an hour more, we. came to the town where we
were to lodge, which we found in :1 terrible fright, and all in arms; for it seems
 
  

that the night before, the wolves and some hours had broken into that village,
and put them in a. terrible fright: and they were obliged to keep guard night
and day, but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and indeed their
people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs so swelled will) the
molding of his two wounds, that he could go no far-flier; so we were obliged to
take :2. new guide there and go to Toulouse, where we found a. warm climate, a
fruitful, pleasant counh' ', and _no snow, no wolves, or any thing like them; but
when we told our story at. Touloufle, they told us it was nothing but what was
ordinary in tho grant forest at the foot of the mountains, especially when the
snow lay on the ground: but they inquired much what kind of a guide we had
gotten, that wordd venture to bring us that mg? in such :1 severe season, and
told us, it was very strange we were not sill devoured. Tthn we told them
how we placed ourselves, nud the horses in the middle, they lilamcri us ex-
ceedingly, and told us it was fifty to' one but we had been all rlnslmoyed~for
it. was the night of the horses that made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey
"and that. at other times they wore really nfrnicl of a gun: but they being
excessively liungiy, and tagging on that account, ihc eagerness to come al. the
horses had made them senseless of dm:gm-, and that if we had not by the
continued fire, and at lust by the slmtagem of the train of powder, "metered
them, it had been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces; whereas had
we been content m have sat still on liorschm'k, and fired. as hommnen, they would
nothava taken the horses so much for their own when men wexe on their backs
as otherwise ; and wilel they fold us, that at: last, if we land stood altogether and
left our horses, they would have been so eager to have devoured them that we
might have come oi? safe, especially having our firearms in our hands, and being
so many in number.

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life ; for seeing nlmve
three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
nothing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost, and as it was, I
believe I shall never cure to Mose those mountains again ; I think I would much
rather go a thousand leugncs by sea, though I were sure to meet with a storm
once a week. I have nothing uncommon to lake notice of in my passage
through France, nothing but. what other travellers have given an account
of with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to
Paris, and without any comidernble stay came to Calais,-nmi Landed safe

at Dover the 14th of January, ufier liming had a severe cold season to
travel in..'l

I WAS now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little time all my
new-discovered estate sale shout me, the hills of exchange which I brought. with
me, having been very currently paid.

My principal guide and pn'vy counsellor was my good ancient widow, Who in
gratitude for the muney I had sent- Ixer, thought no pains too much, or care too
great, to emplo'x.r for me ; and I trusted her so enlimly with every thing, that Iwas mri'octl)>> eaay as to the security of my efi'ects; and indeed I was very happy
from my beginning, and now to the end, in the unspoiled integrit'sr of this good
gentlewomnn.

And now I began to think of leaving my affects with this woman, and setting
out. for Lisbon, and so in the Brnz'k But now :molher ucruplo. came in the way,
mnijhatjx s i'viigion; for as I had entertained some doubts :ihont the Roman
religion, even \ihii-z I was abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I knew
there \s'ss no going: Lo the Bram: for me, much less going to settle there, nnle:\i I
resolved '50 embr e the Roman Catholic religion, without :myrmmfi'c; except,
on the other Izsnrl, I l'e'fllVCd to 1m :1 sacrifice to my princiyles, he a rumrlyr for
rciigign, and (lie in (he Inquisition : so I resolved to slay at home, and, if I could
find memw ("or it, disgiosc of my plant )h.

To this purpose I \u-oi.e to my ahl friend at. Lisbon, who in return gave me
notice, "int he wild easily dispose of ii. there; but that if I thought iii. to giro.
him h-mo to after ii. in. my name ii) the two mend "his, the survivors Ul' 1'in
trustees, who liv Lin the Bruzile, who must. fully under. .ond the. value of it. who
lived. just upon nl', and whom I knew i.) he very rich, so that he believed
tl .y would hr: fond. of buying ii, he did not doubt but I should make four or five
thousand Views! of eight the more. of it.

Armrdingdg, I agreed, gave him ordom lo ofi'er it to them, and he did so; and
in nlmul. eight months more, the ship being then returned, he sent. me an account
that they lmd accepted the offer, and had. remilted thirty 'n'ea tlmusnmil pieces of
eight. to u. nor-respvmdmit of tlwim at Lisbon to pay For it. In return, I aigned
the instrument of sale in the form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to
my old man, who sent me the hills of exchange for thirty--three thousand pi 0.0.3
of eight for the. estate; reserving the payment of one hundred moiilursa
to him (the old man) during his life, and filly moidorcs nftemm'ds to his son for
his life, which I had promised them, mid which the plantation was to make good
as a rent--charge.

Any one would think, that in this mm: of complicuggd goud fortune, I was
past running any more hazards, and [so indeed i had been, if other Ch'cmnstunces
hml mum-red; but I was immrcd to n wandering life, had no family, nor many
relations, nor, however rich, had 1' contracted much acquaintance; and though
I lmrl sold my estate in the Bruzilfl, yet. 1 could not keep that comitryuut of
my hen-Ll, and had it great mind. to be upon the wing again ; especially I could
not resist the strong inclination I had to see my island, and to know if the
poor Spaniards were in being tlier nml how the rogutxs I left. there had used
them.

My true friend, the widow, earneatly dissuaded mc' from it, and so far
prevailed with me, that. almost. For seven years she prevented my running abroad,
during which time .I took my two nephews, the children of one of my brothers,
into my care : the eldest. having something of his own, I bra] up as a gentleman,
and gave him n settlement of some addition to his estate, after my (incense; the
otherI put out to the captain of a ship: and after five years, finding him &
 

 

sensible, hold: enterprising young fellow, I put him in a good ship, and sent him 6
to sea ; and this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as l was, to farther
adventnms myself.

In the meantime, I in part settled myself hero: for, first of all, I was married,
Limi- nut- either to my disadvantage 01' (liasaiisx'aclion ; and had llwm whihlmn, two
acne and one daughter.

That homely proverb, used on so many occasions in England, namely, "That
what in hand in the bone will not go out of the flesh," was never 11mm verified
than in the story of 1113; life. Any one would :hink, that, other 1.113111 "v.93": years
of affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstances, which few men; i1" any, 131-141-
wenl. 1h1\n'1gh before, and after near seven yea-cs of peace :1an anvyumui'. iu the
fullness of all filings--grown old--3.1111 wl1e11,if evca ii; might. be allowed to
me to have had experience of every state of middle rig, and 1.1) know which was
most adapted to make a man completely happy-- say, after all this, any one
would have thought ihm'. the. native pmpensily (o rambling, which I gave an
account of in my first. Belting out into the world to have been so predominana
in my thoughts, should be worn 0111., 1.1m volatile part he fully evacuated, or at
least condensed, and I might at sixty--one " are of age have been a. little more
i unlined to stay at home, and. have done venturing life 11,1111 fol-Lune any more.

Faun farther, the 110111111011 111ot.ive ol'fm-eign adventures was is 11011 away in me
---fo1 I had no forum's to make, I had 1101451113.: to seek: if I had rained ten
thousand pounds I hall been no 1icl1e1'------fm I had already sufficient 101' me, and
fc-1' those I had 1.0 lemo 11. 1,4), and that I haxl was visibly inmmsing--fm- having
no great family, I could not spend the income of what. I had, unless I would sci
up for an expensive Way of living, finch as a great. family, awn-ants, equipage,
guiety, and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or inclination to ; so
that I had notlnng indeed to do, but (a sit: still, and fully enjoy what i had got,
and see it increase daily 1111011 in}: hands.

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not enough to resist-
i'ha Strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which 111111;; about we like a
chronicle distempe ' ; particularly, tho desire of seeing my new plantation in the
island, and the colony I left there, 111.11 in 1113'r hand continually. ] (h'esnml of it
all night, 11nd my imagination ran upon it all day--it was uppermost in all my
thoughts, and my fancy worked so smmiily and 5mm upon it, that I talked of

. it. in my sleep: in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind--it oven broke
so violently into all my discourses, that it made my mnvorsalion tiresome; for I
could talk of nothing else, all my discourse ran into if, even to importinencc, and
I saw it myself.

I lime ol'non hcmd 1191110113 of good judgment 531: that all the stir people make
in the \vo1ld about ghosts and 11pp:11lll0n',i5 011111" to teh strength of iniaginntion,
and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds--that. lhnrc 15 no such thiuu'
as a Eplrll' appemiw, or :1. ghost walking, and the like--4.11211 pmples poring
nEectionately upon the past conversation of then decenscxl fiiends so 1ealisu-1 it lo
t'-1c1n,tl1atthey are capable of fancymg, upon some exliaoulinm'v ci1cunislances.

263

\.
l5 .
1
 

that they see them, talk to them, and are mxswe-red by them, when, in truth, linen;
. is nolhing but shadow and vapour in the thing; and they really know norhing of
the mailer.

For my part, Iknow not to this hour whether there are any such things as
real nppnritiona, speclms, or walking of people after they are (lead, or whether
there is anv thing in the stories they tell us of that kind, more than the prodnvr
of vupon . sick minds, and wondering; fancies. Bun; this I know, that. my
imagination worked up to such a. height, and brought me into such excess of
vapours, or wlmt else I may call it, that T actually supposed myself often-times
upon tho spot, at my old castle behind the trees, saw my; old Spaniard, Friday's
faler, and the reprobnlo sailors whom I lefi upon the island -- mi}, '1 fancied i
talked with them, and luulmxl all. them so steadily, though I was broad awake, as
at persons just before me; and this I did (Hi I alien frightened myself with the
images my fancy leprcscntccl to me. One time in my sleep I had llic villany of
the three pirate sailor's so lively minted in me, by the first Spaniard and Friday's
father. that it was amprisiny: they told me how they harbamusly attempted to
murder all the Spaniards, and that (he); set fire to the provisions they had laid up,
on purpose in distress and starve them--<<things that I had never heard of, and
that were yet 811 oi'them true in fact; lml. it was so warm in my iumginatiun,
mid so realised to me, that to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but
that. ll. was ornvould be true; also how I resented it when the Spaniard com-
plained to me, and how I brought them to justice, tried them before me, and
ordered them all three to be hanged. What (here was will}; in this, shall be seen
in its place '. for however I mum: to form such things in my dream, xmrl wlmr. secret-
cmweme of spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of it true. I own
Limitliis dream had nothing litemlly and specifically true; but the general part
was so true, the base and villainous behaviour of these three hardened rogues was
Such, and had been so much worse than all I can describe, that. the dream haul. too
much Siinilitutle of fiict; and as I would nflm'warfls have punished them severely,
so if I had hanged them ell, 1' had been much in the right, and should have been
justifiable, both by the laws of God and man.

But to return to my story. In this kind of temper I had lived some years;
I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant. hours, no agreeable diversion, our
what had something or other of this in it. 5 so that my wife, who saw my mind so
wholly lmnt upon it, told me very serioust one night, that: she believed there was
some scorer, powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had determined me
to go thither again 5 and that she found nothing hindered me going, but. my being
engaged to a will: and children. She hold me, tlmc il. was. true she could not think
of parking with me 5 but as she was assureti, that if she was dead, it. would be the
first. thing I would do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined above,
she would not be the only obstruction ; for, if I thought. lit, and resolved to
go~-----v Here she found me very intent upon her WOI'llii, and that I looked very
earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered her, and she stopped. I asked her
why she (lid not go on, and say out what she was going to say? But I perceived
 

her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes. " Speak out, my dear,"
said I ; "are you willing 1 should gm'l"--"No," says she, vex-y afiecrionately,
"I am far from willing: but, if you are resolved (-0 go," says she, "and rather
than I will he the only hindrance, I will go with you; for though I think it n.
preposterous thing for one of your yams, and in your condition, yet. if it must he,"
said she again, weeping, " l won't leave you; for it- he of Heaven, you must do
it, there is no resisting it ; and, if Heaven makes it your duty to go, he will also
make it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I mnj~ not
obstruct it." -

'l'his affectionate behaviour of my wife brought. me a little nut of the vapeum,
and I began to consider what I was doing"; I correct/eel my wandering limey, and
began to argue with myself sedately what business 1 had after three-score years,
and alter such :1 life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and clowd in so happy
and easy a manucrnl say, what business had I to rush into new hazards and
put myself upon adventures, fit only for youth and poverty to run into.

"Till! these thoughts,

I considered my new

engagement --- that, I

had a wife, one child

born, and my wife then

great. with child of

another--that I had all

the world could give me,

and had no noxzzl [0 seek

hazards for gain--that

I was declining in

yams, and might to

think rather of leaving

What Iliad gained, Lhan

ol'saehing to increase it

---th:1t, as to what my

wife had said, of its

being a secret. impulse

from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I, had no notion of that:

- 30y after many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my

imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people may always do in like

11:50.5, if they will; and, in 9. word, I conquered it; Composed myself with such

"Vilma"?! as occurred to my thoughts, and which my present. condition furnished

inc plentifully with; and, particularly, as the most effectual method, I resolved in

divert myself with other things, and to engage in some business that might

afiectually tie me up from any more, excursions of this kind; for I found the

"ling return upon me chic-fly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or any thing of
moment immediately helium me.

To this purpose ] bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolvedto remove myself thi'iher. I had a little convenient. house noon it, and lhc land
about it I found was capable of great improvement, and that ii. was many ways
soiled to my inclination, which delighted in cultivating, munsging, phoning, and
improving of land; and, particularly, being an inland county, I was rammed
from conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the remote part

of the world. .
in a. word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought me nlonghs,

harrows: rt cnrt, waggon, horses, cow, sheep, and, setting seriomly to work,
become in one linlf year a more. country genileman. My thoughts were entirely
taken up in rummging my servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting,
&c. ; and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature was. .rnnahle of
directing, or that a man always bred to mixfortnnes was cnpnhle of being re-
treated to.

l Farmed upon my own lunch--I hnd no rent to pawnwns limiten'l lay 1K!
articles--I could pull up or cut down as I nlensed--n-'hot I planted was for
myself, and what I imnroved wax for my family; and having thus lefi: oh' the
thoughts of wondering, I had not. the least discomfort in any port. of my life '93
to iltis world. New, I firefight, imleed, that I enjoyed the middle state of life,
which my father so earnestly recommended to rue--a kind of heavenly life,
ron'zellring like what is described by the poet upon the suhjocl: of a coLuxl-ry
life :----

Fws from vices, free from tam-c,
Age has no pains, and youth no sure.

But, in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen Providence
unhingml me at once, end not only made a breach upon me, inevitable and
incurable, hul: drove me, by its consequence, upon a deep relapse into the
wandering disposition, which, as i may say, being born in my very blood, soon
recovered its hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent. distemper, come on
with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing could make any more
impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my wife.

if. is not my business here to write on eleglxr upon my wife, to give 9. ohnrncter
of her particular virtues, and make my court to the sex by the flattery of a
funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the slay of my affairs, the centre of
all my enterprises, the engine film, by her p 'ndenee, reduced me to that happy
compsss I was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project that. fluttered in
my head 58 above, mid did more to guide my rambling genius than a, mother's
tears or firther's instructions, at friend's council, or all my own reasoning could do.
I was hnpmr in lislening in her tears, and in being moved by her anlreaties, and,
to the last degree, desolate and dislocated in the world, by the loss of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I n' s as much u
stranger in it. in my thoughts as I was in the Brazils when I went first on shore,
and as much alone, except as to the assistance of servants, as I was in my island.
Zl know neither what to do or what not to do; I saw the world busy around mo,
one part labouring for bread, and the other york wandering in vile exocsses, or
empty pleasures equally miserable, because the end they proposed still fled fromL
l

<<11

512'; 1M1;

 

ADVENTURE-S 01? ROBINSON (3121,5017.

them ; 1' 121' the men 01' p. assure 01 e1 y day surfeited of their 1 ice. .unl heaped up
work for sorrow 11.1111 repentance, 11nd 1.11:: 1111111 of labour xpent their siren-Irh' 111
(111111" strugglings for 17101111 to maintain the vitals -':'11511gl.l1 they 1111101111111 11ith; so
1:1'ing' 111 511121in circulation of 5101-1011 --111.11)g 13111; to work, and 1111.1'kiug 11111. to
live, :15 if-(luily bread were the only <<ml of :1 wem-isonie life, and 51 wem'ismnn 11' ['11
th: onlv occasion 02111311117 bread.

This [1111; 1111'. in mind of 1.1151 life I li1ecl in 111\-' knigr'lom [1111 island, where I
snll'erell .110 more com to grow, hm, 11151: I dill not 11'11111. it, 111111 111le no more owns)
because I had no 111a for than--"where 1.110 111011121; 1113;111 1.1111 drawer till i1: grew
11151110111151, 51ml 115151 som'oe 11m favour 1111113 looked upon in twenty years.

All these things, 115111 I 11111111111511 :13 I ought to have. (lone, final as reason 11ml
religion 115111, (lictntecl to me, would have taught. 1113 to search farther than
1.111'115111 enjoym s for a. full .fcliailyfland that there was smnething 111' 11
certainly was the reason and end of life, superior to 11.11 these things 111111 which
was either to be posses 2:1, or, :11. least, honed for, on 1111s side of the gum

But my sage no 211191101 11:15 gone; 1 was like a ship without :1 pilot, that
could u l 1111 hefore the wind; 1111,- 1111'111311111 ran all 11111 gain into 1.1111 011.1
nfinirmm}, 11191111 11211 quite tome-ll wiLl: 1.1113 whimsies of foreign mlrmi'nw-s ; ."11111
:111 1'ch pleasing innocent amusmwnts of my farm and garden. my call 11117 m1?
fumih, 1111i<111 hcfmc urclv possessed 111:, were nothing to me, 115111 111) 1elis'1, 1111.1
11 are li he music 1.1) one (1 511. has no (1511:. or food to one [11111. has no 151911: in :1 word

'-:ol1'ed to leave off lionsuheepnw 131; my farm, 511111 rcuun to London; 1111:1' 111
51 1211.1: months after I (lid so.

"Vin-11 I <<.151: no 0.1) London I 11515 $51! :18 uneasy :13 before: I 111111 no relish to
tl1cpl:1ce,'11o e111,1lo_1_r11ient'_111 it,11(1tl1i11;,rto do but to saunter about like an iil' (1
pchon of 11110111 1: 11:13.1r be 511111, he' 15 pe1'feectlynsulcss'111 Gocl's creation, and' 1
not one Birthing man 111 to the rest; of his 1.111111 whether 1 1 ho rlcml or alive. This
also was the thing which, 01' n1! circumsmncrs 01' life, was 1110 most my "version,
111111 11ml been all my (lays used to 1111 30.1.1111 lil'e: and I would 011911 suyto "$51.35",
"A state of idleness is the 112121' (lie-gs of life:" 11.1111, indeed, I thought I was
111115111 more snilahly mnplayccl, when I was twenty-six (lays making me a deal
hoard.

It i1! now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, 111111111 11s I
observed 1191:0112, 1 1151121 brought up to 1.1111 sen, 11ml had made commander of a ship,
11.15 come home i'wni :1. 5111013: "waffle to P11111051, being the first ho had ma 19.1151
came to me '51:1(l told me, that some merchants 01' his acquaintance 111111 11131-111
proposing to him to go 51 Voyage 101' 1110111 to the East Indies and 1.11 (111E111. 11.1
111-11.1113 l..1'z1de1s ' "And now, n11cle"s51vs he, "" if you will go to 33.1 11': th 1111:, I'll
engage to 1511111 you upon your old habitation in the island, {'01 11mm) to touch at
tho 151512-115."

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of :1. future 1mm, and of the c "
of 5111 invisnble world, than the concurrence of second causes with the ,
things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not. communicated to
any in the world.
 

My nephew knew nothing how for my distemper of wandering was returned
upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to gay, when that.
very morning, before he mine to me, I haul, in a great-deal of confusion of
thought, and revolving every part of my circmnsianms in my mind, come to this
resolution, namely, that 1 would go to Lisbon nnd consult with my old sea-captain;
and so, if it. Was rational and practicable, I would go and see the island again, and
see what was become of my people them. I had plezectl myself also with the
thoughts of peopling tho place, and carrying inhabitants from hexme, getting :I.
patent for the possemion, and i know not what; when, in the middle of all this,
in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of carrying me thither, in
his way to the East. Indies.

I paused a while at his worda, and looked steadily at him, " What devil," said
I, "sent you this unlucky errand l" My ncphcw sLm-Lorl, as if he had been
li-iglitccl, in. first; but. perceiving I was nor, nnmh displeased with the pmposul,
he recovered himself. "1 hope it may not he on unlucky proposal, sir,"szira
he; "1 dare any you would be pleased to see your new colony there, where
you (mix: reigned with more felicity "than most of your brother monarchs in the
world."

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to any, with the
pmpossossion I was under, and of which I have said so much, that I told him in a
few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would go with him' but I told him
I would not promise to go any farther than myown island. ll . sir," says he,
"you don't want to he left there again I hopo'l"--" Why," : ' 'zm you not
take me up again in your rotw'n 'l" He told me, it could not be possible that the
merchants would allow him to come that. way with a loaded ship of such value, it
being a month's sail out of his way, nnd might ho three or four: " hcsidos, sir, if
I should xniscm'ry," said he, "and not return at nil, Linen ~ion would he just
rgclncod to the condition you were in before."

This was very rational: but we both foxmd old. a mmcrly for it, which was to
carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which, being taken in pieces and shipped
on hoard the ship, might, by the help of some curpenlors, whom we agreed to
carrywith us, he set up again in the island and finished, (it to go to son in a
few days.

I was not long resolving; for indeed the imporlnnirios of my naphow joined
in so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could oppose me; on the other
hand, my wifo being dead, I had no body concerned themselves so much for me
<<:5 m persuade me one way or other, except my ancient. good friend, the widow
who earnestly struggled with me to consider my -ears, my easy circumstances,
and the needless hazard of A long voyage, and, above all. my young childmn:
but it Was all to no purpose; I had an in'euistihlo desire. to the voyage, and I Loin]
her, I thought there was something so uncommon in the impressions I had
upon my mind for the voyage, that it would be a. kind of resisting Providence if
I should attempt to stay at. home; afhor which she ceased her exposmlations,
and joined with me, not only in making provision for my voyage, but also in

$4....
settling my family affairs in my absence, and. providing for the education of my
children.

[a order to this I made my will, and settled the estate I had in auch a mannrr
for my children, and placed in auch hands, that l was perfect 13; easy and satisfied
they would have jmtioc (lone them, whatever might Lefal me; and 1hr their
education, l left it "'11: 3'10 my widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself
for her care; all which she richly deserved, for no mother conhl have taken more
care in their .clucation, or understood it. better; and as she lit-ml till [came home,
I also lived to thank her for it.

' My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning ol' J anam'y 11394-5 and l,
with my man Friday, went on hoard in the Downs the 8th, having, besides that
sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all kinds ol' necessary
things for my colony, which if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to
leave an.

First, I carried with
me some servants,
whom I purposerl to
place there as: inhabi-
tants, or at least to set
on work thereupon my
own account. while I
staid, and either to
leave than there, or
carry them (inward, as
they almnld appear
willing; particularly,
I carried two car-
pcntcrs, and n smith,
and a very handy,
ingenious fellow, who
was a cooper by trade,
but was also a general mechanic; for he was (lexln'nna at. making whozcls
and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good turner. and a good pot--maker; he
also made any thing that was proper to make of earth or of wuwl: in 2:
word, we called him our " Jack of all mules."

With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go passenger to the
East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to stay on our new
plantation, and proved a most. noccssary handy Follow as could ha desired, in many
other businesses hrsides that. of his trade, for, as I fibrol'vcd former , necessity
arms us for all employments.

My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept an account of the
pnr'iculars, conEisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, mid some thin English
ffs for clothing the Spaniards that I exycctrzl in find there, and enough of them
as, by my calculation, might. mmfortxhl snppiy them for seven year: If I
remember glvl, the nmfm'iala which I an . .cl for clothing Lhcmfirith gloves, hats,
shots, stockings, and all such thine>>) as they could want (hr wearing, amounml to
above two hundred pounds, including some beds, bedding, and houselwld shu't',
particularly kitchen nten with puts, kettles, pewter, brasx, (ital, besides, near a
hundred pounds more in imnwork, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hunks,
hinges, and every necessary thing I cunld think of.

I. carried also a hundred spam arms, nnlskets, and fur>> , '.":les sun>>; piflnla,
a considerable quantity of shot of all sizas, three or i'nzn' inns of lead, and two
pieces of brain: cannon ; and because I knew not what time nnd what. exirmni-ios
.l was providing (221', I carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides 3WD 4..
enllasses, and thu iron part of some spikes and lmllicrzs; so let in short, we had
a. large magazine of all sorts (rl' stores; and I made my nevi-aw cal-1 t '0 small
qmtr'tgr--deck fans more than he wanted for his ship, in lo. '9 behind d
on ion: that lKSll they came that. we might. build a RM, and )1!an it against.
all sorts nl' enemies: and ilidcml I at Iirs', thought there would he need enough of
it. all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain mn- possension of 1.11:: island, as

Si.

 

  
 

    

 

 

   

 

    

 

   

shall be seen in ilzc course of the. <<'nrv.

] had not such bail luck in this rayage as .T lzml been I l ('0 meet with: and
(lac-reform shall have the less (mention to inte: upl. the renn ', who, perhaps, may
he impatient to hear how umflm': went with my cr-lnny - yet gum>> mid accidcrts
cr SS winds, and had wanlier, lull-pornd on ilzis first > lug out, which made the
. longer than I expected it at. iii t; and I, who liunl never made but or."
v ' ,, namely, my first voyage to Guinea, in which 1 m' H hr. said 10 came
back again as the ropgn was lirsl. designed; began to think i smnc ill {at}: still
awarded me ; that I was born her or to he contented with lacing on shore, and 31::
tu he always unlhrtnnute at son. '

(January winds put us to the northward and we were obliged lo put in at
Galwuy in Ireland. Wham we la}.- windlouml rwo-mul-Lhirty days: hm. we had
this satis'fnction with the disaster, that pro>> us were here exceedingly clump,
and in the utmost plenty; so that while we lay have we never touchsd tin; ship".
st 3., but miller added to them. Here. also I 'uuol: several hogs, and two IIUWS
With their calves, which I resolved, if I 11911 :1 good '9 we. to put on shore in my
island, lull. we l'ouml occnsion to dispose oilwr ' 2 of ill n. _

"7e sol. out on the 5th of Feln'nmy from Ireland, and had a. vow fair gale on"
wind for some days; as I remember, it: might be. about the 20th of February, in
the owning, when the mate lmving the watch, came into the round house, and
tuld us he saw a flash of fire, and. heard a gun fired; and while. he war telling 115
of it, a, boy camein, and told us the bomawain heard another. This made us all
run onl. nxmn the qmtrter-rlcck, where for n wlzilu we heard nothing, but in a few
minutes we saw a very great light, and fmmd that there was some vcryltcrrilz-la
fire at a distance. Immediately we had recourse to our rcckoningzx, in WlElch we

890nil agmecl that. that there coulil he no land that way in which the fire shou'ccl itr'elf
~---no, not for five hundred leagues, for it. appeared at wesirnorih-wcst. Tfpon
this. we concluded it must be some $hip on fire at. sea; and, us by our hearing the
no} of ihe guns just before, we concluded it could not be far oil', we stood
directly (OWEIKlS it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, because the
farther we snilezl iho. {grater the light appeared, though the weather being hazy,
we conltl not perceive anything but the light. for a while. In alum: half an
hcm'a sailing, the wiutl h g fair for us, though not much of it, and the weather
clearing; up alietle, we could niaiuly ditcern it: was a grant ship on fire in (he
lliilllllfl of the son.

I was. most sensibly touched with this disaster, though ml. at. all acquuiuiml
nit" the persons engtgcil in it 3 l present-13- race-Hector] my Former circumstuncw,
in what condition I was. in when taken up by the I'vrfiu 'zil eupmiu; and how
much more deplorable the Circumstances of the prior creatures belonging to this
musl. be if they had no other ship in ceiupnny with them: upon this I
immediately ordered that fire guns shouhl he fr; l; (ma soc-n after :iunilinr, that,
if possible, nu might give notice to them that. there was hell>> for them at, n':,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their hunt; for firms]!
Wu would we the flame. in the ship, yet they, :1. being night, could see not
of we. .

"re lay liy some time ugou this, only driving as the burning ship drove,
waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our great terror: though we had
mason to expect. il., i-hc ship blow up in the air, and immediately sank. This \\'!I:'i
ible, and indeed an afflicting sight, for the E'Jlii: of the poor mm, who 1
dis 8

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

  

ll":
concluded, must be eii-l'cl' all fiestroyecl in the ship, 01' he in the utn
iii ' boats in the middle of the ormn, which at present, by mason it was dark,
I could not see: however to direct them as well as I could, T mused lights in he
hung out. in all the. pin-ts of the ship where we could, and l we lliKl lanterns

for, nail kept. firing guns all the. night long, letting them lmowhy this, than; there

 

 

 

 

"as a ship not far off.

About. eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's hunts by the help
m" can perspective glasses; and found there wen-r: two of them, both lhrnusgud with
people, and deep in the water: we perm'ired they rowed, the. wind lming ugniua.
hut the}.r saw our ship, and (lid the utmost to make us see them.
,mul hung

 

them--v

"'e inuncrliatc-ly sprenrl our ancient, to let them know we saw the.
await. out, as a signal for them to come on board; and then made. more sail,
si-mirling directly to them. 1n A little more than half an hour we came up with
them, and, in a worit, took them all in, being no less than sixtyl'onr ixieixgwomcu,
mu] childmn; for there were a great many passengers.

Upon the. whole, we found it. was in French Hie-r hunt ship, oftln'm hundred
tons, homewauxl harmd from Quebec, in the river of Canada. The master gave
us a long amount. of the distmfis of his ship, how the fire began: in the slccrzk >_','
the negligence of the steersmu'n; but, on his crying out: for help, was; a: cvcrg
lJUtl)' thought, entirely got out : but they soon found that some of the sparks of
 

 

tlm first (in: had gotten into some part of the ship, so difficult to come at, tho:
Lhcv could not effectually quench it 3 and afterwards getting in between the
timhm's, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded hm; the hold, and
mastered all the skill and all the application) they were able to exert.

They lmrl no mom to do then but to gel, inlo their hunts, which, to tlmir great
omnforl, were pretty large; busing their long--hunt, and. a great shallop, besides a
small skill, which was of no great SRl'VlCB to them, other than to get. some fresh
water and provisions into her, after they had secured themselves from the fire.
Thay had indeed small hop>> of their lives by getting into these boats at that
distance from an)' land 5 only, as they said well, that they were escaped from the
fire, and. had (1 possibility, that some ship might happen to be M. son, and might.
take them in. They had sails, ours, and a cmnpuss ; and were preparing to mnlw
the host of their way to Nowlhumllmnl, the wind blowing pretty fair ; for it blew
an (instatsontl1~eust-by--esst. They had as much pmvisions and water, as, with
sparing it so as to be next door to starving, might support them about twelve
days; in which, if tho; had no bad weathar, and no contrary winds, the captain
said, he hoped he might get to the bank>> of Newfonndlnnd, and might perhaps ;
take somo lish to sustain them till thay might go on shore. But there ware so 1
many chances against them in all these cases--such as storms to overset and
. founder them, rains and cold to bennmh and perish their limbs, contrary winds to
keep them out and stone them--that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped.

in the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless, :uid ready to
despair, the mlptuin, with tears in his eyes, told me, they \verie on a sudden
surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and filler that- .l'onr more; these were.
the fire guns which I caused to be fired at first string the light: this mvivod their
hearts, and gave them the notice which, as above, I designed I should, namely,
that there was a ship at hand for their help.

It was upon the hearing these guns, thnt they tool; clown their masts and ' }
soils; and tha sound coming from windwm'd, they resolved to lin by till morning.
Some time after this, hearing no more guns,tliey fired three muskets, one
considerable while after another; but these, the wind being contrary we never
heard.

Some time after that again, they were still mom agreeably surprism-l with
seeing our lights, and hearing our guns, which, as I have said, I caused to he fired
all the rest of the night: this set them to work with their ears to keep their boats
ahead, at least that we might the sooner come up with them ; and at last, to their
incspressible joy, they found we saw them.

It is impossible for ms to express the several gestures, the strungc ccstacics,
the variety of postures, which these poor delivered people run into, to express the
joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily
described--sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of head and hands, make
up the sum of its variety: but an excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand
evuuvaganciea in it; there were some in tears, some raging and tearing them-

292

K

 

v;Al)V1SSX'L'UlZES 0F RON-351m CRUSH".

 

sclvcs, as if thcy had been in the. greater-t. ngonics of sorrow; some stark raving
mnl downright luntic; some ram almut' tl. ip stumping with their feet, others
wringing their hands; some were dancing, amoral singing, some laughing, mom
crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting,
scrotal swunning, and ready to l'nint; and a few were crnssing tlwmsc was and
giving Grad thanks.

I would not wrung tlurm neithcr-- there might- ho many that. were thankful
afterward; but the passion was [no strong for them :It fir>> , and they were not.
ahh'. in master it.--- they were thrown into ('mlaries and a kind of frenzy; and so
there were but :i very few wha were cmnposcd and serious in their: joy.

Perhaps aka the case may hav some addition to it, fionl the particular vir-
cmusmm'c of the nation they belonged to--I mean the meh, whose, tompcr is
allowed to he more \'ulntile, mine. In nnnte, and more sprightly, and their spirits
more fluid, than of other nations. I am not n l'illiloaopher to determine the cause,
but: nothing I had ever seen hclbrc came up to it; 1hr; ccstmics poor Friday, my

 

 

 

 

trusty savage, was in, when he found his father in the bout, rnnin the nearest. to
it; and tho. stu'Ln'L'e ot' the master, and his twn nompzmions, whom I delivered
from the villains that set them on shore on the island, came a little way towards
it; it"! nothing; wzis to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere
else in my life.

It. is further observable, that these extriu'aunncies did not show thcmsnh-cs in
that difi'erunt unnmm' I have nientinnctl, in different persons only: hut. all the
variety would appear in a. short. succession of moments, in one. nnd the mum
person. A man that. we saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and
confounded, should the next, minute he dancing and hallucing like an antic;
nnd Lhenevxt moment a--teuring his hair, or pulling his clothes to pica", and
stumping them under his feet. like a madman ; a. lizw minutes after that, we should
have him fall into tears, than sick, then Swooning: mid, had not. immediate
help been had, would in a Few moments more have been dead: and thus it was,

911

  

.zbmyanngifl

645%

  

{I

'2

f

.515"?

n7 --
;_.-. /.. ~

 

F.'
'.
x
|
I

i

    

awh'r "'1;

//
 

not with one or two, or ten, or twenty, but with the greatest 1m": ol" them;
and, if I remember right, Our sm'gcxm was obliged to let above Lhirly of them
blood.

There were two priest: among 1.1mm, one an old man, and the other a
young man; and that which was strangest was, that the eldest man was the
waist.

As soon as he set his feel: on board our ship, and sari himself safe, he dropped
down stone dead to all. :qapguruuce--nol. the. least sign of lafc could he perceived
in him. Our surgeon immediately applied proper rnmienflies to recover him, and
was the only man in the ship that behaved he was not dead; and at. length he
opened a vein in his arm, having fir-at chafe'i and rubbed the part, :50 as to warm
it as much as possible: upon this, 1110 blaod, which only dropped at first, {lowed
sumething freely; in three minutes after the man opened his eyes; and, about
a qunrmr of an hour aft/er that, he spoke, grew heifer, and, in a little time, quite
well. After the blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly
well, took a. ' m of cordial which the sm'geou gave him, and was what- We called
come to hunself. About a quzwtea' of an hour after this they came running into
the cabin to the. surgeon, who was bleeding :\ French woman IlmL land fainted,
and held him the priest was gone stark uyad. It seems he had begun to
revolve the Cha of his circumstances in his mind, and this put him into an
ecstacy of joy; 3 spirits whirled about. faster than the vessels could convey
them; the bland grew hot and few-ei'h. and the man was as {it for hedlam as
any creature that ever was in it: the amyjeon would not blond him again in
that comlirion, but gave him something to doze and put him to sleep, rhich, alto-r
wine time, operated upon him, and he wakcd next morning perfec; y cempused
and well.

Tim young priest behaved himself With great command of his passion, and
was really an example of a sci-19m, "ell-governed mind. Al: his first. coming
0n board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, pmu'aling himself in
thankfulneas for his deliverance; in which I unhapPily and uuseasonahly
disturbed him, really thinking he had hem in n. swoon: but he spoke calmly,
thanked me, told me he was giving Gad thanks for his deliverance, begged me
to k-nvn him :L few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give me
thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that l liisllu'bed him, sud not only left. him, but kept
other? from interrupting him Olso; he cvulinued in that posture about three
minutes, or A little more, after I left him, then came to me, as he had staid he
would, and with n great: deal 06' seriuusuess :uid affection, but with tears in his
QYQS, thanked me that- had, under God, given him and so many nuaeruhle
creatures their lives. I told him I had my mom in more him to thank God for
it. rather than ma; fbr I had 5 en thnt he had done that nlmady: but I added,
that it was nothing but what. on and humanity diced-ed to all men, and let
"'0 had as much reason ma he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as
t0 make "5 the illfih'u-mcnls of his mercy to many of his creatures.
 

Aflerthis, the young priesi, unlit-:1 himself in his country falls--<<inbound
Lo camping: them, persuaded, cutreamd, rgnnrl, ransom-cl with them, and did
hiR utmost. to limp {hem within lhn cxcuisn of their rensun ; and with some
he lax-:1 streams, though others were, For n time, out of all government of
tlieumelvm.

I cannot help committing this to writing, and perhaps it may be useful to
those into whose hands it may fail, in the guiding themselves in all the orna-
vagm'icies (-i' their passions; for, if an excess of joy can en "r men out to such a
lepgih heyund the reach of the' reason, what will not the Ckrl'aX'nngCQS of nnger,
rage, and. n provoked mind; carn- ns to? A 12d, indcncl, here I saw reason for
keeping an exceeding watch over our Passions of xix-cry kind, as well as those of
joy and snihfnctiun, as those. ol' sorrow and anger.

We were sometimes disordered. by Sitcsc extravagance; among our new
guests for the first d; but when they had he '1 retired, lodgings provided for
than all as well as our xiiiig would allow, and hail slept lignrtily, us must ui'
them did, bring {aligned and frightened: tilt-y new quite another sort. of people
the next clay.

Nozhing of gnocl manners, or civil aulmowlcdgmcnts for the kindness shown
them. was wanting; the French, it is known, are naturally up: enough to exceed
that way. The captain and one of ihc Priests came in me the next day and,
desiring to apt-ail: with me and my nephew, the commander begun to consult with
us what should he don-9 with them; and, first", they told us, that m; we had saved
their lives, so all they had was little enough for n return t0 us for ihkn d ness
received. The captain said, they had snved some money, and sumu things ofvnlue
in their limits, _.'lched hastily out of the flames; and ii' we would. accept. of it,
(l .36 were ordered 1.0 make an oi'ier of it all in us; they mil '5' desired to bu sci. en
shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might get a puss-age (.0
France. _

My nephew was For accepting their money at first word, and to considerwhnt
to do wig], 1,1me afterwards: hut. I urcrruled. in that part; far I knew what if was
to he set on shore in a sirnnge country; and if the Portugal captain that took um
up at son had served me so, and took all that I had for my deliverance, Imust
have starved, or have been as much a slave n: the Brer ils as I had been at
Barbary, the being sold to n Mnhomemu mil}.r am mod; and perhaps a
Portuguese is not a much better master than a. Turk, if not, in some cases a
much worse.

I therefore told the French captain timbre had taken them up in their distress,
it was true; imi- t-lml ii. was our duty to do so, a>>; we were fellow ci'euiurcs, and
as we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the ii 0 or any oLher ex-
tremity; than. we had dour: nothing for them but what we believed they would
haw. done for us, if we had been in their case, and they in mus; but that we
Look them up to serve them, not. to plunder them _: and that ii, would he a. most
barbarous thing to take that lil-Llc from them which they had saved out of the fire,
and rhen set them on shore and leave them; that this would be first to save them

29.5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

>>, .Mm. , ,, _. ' _n V ,_ -.-,. w-fifigx-- gmauf/W

"A

 
 

x;

at

wag; iwx
 

from death, and then kill them ourselves--save them from drowning, and then
abandon them tu starving; and therefore I would not let the least thing he taken
from them. As to setting them on shore, I told them, indeed that was an
cxccediugllilllcn-lty to Lu, for that the ship was bound to the East. Indies; and
though we were. driven out of our course to the westward a verygreat way, which
perhaps was directed by Heaven on purpose for their delive ante, yet it was
impossible For us wilfully to change our voyagn on this particular account;
nor could my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom he
was under clnu'lermarty lo pursue hk voyage by way of Brazil; and all I.
knew he could do for them was, to put. ourselves in the way of meeting will;
other ships lxomnward bound from the "rest Indies, and get them passage, if
possible, to England or France.
The first part of
the proposal wfis nu
generous and kind,
they could not hm.
he \- 'ry thankful
for hul Ihoy
were in a great
constermitiw, es-
'ally the par;-
} ' at the
I, notion of being
carried away to the
. East Indies : they
.; than eutrealed me,
that seeing I was
L driven so far to the
westward hel'om I _
met will: them, I 7 A.
would at least hoop on the same <<nurse to the hanks

 

 

 

 
 

. of Newfoundlmul, where
1 itwns possible I might mac-t with acme ship or sloop that they might hire to
it harry them back to Canada, from whence they came.
3" I thought this wa$ but a reasonable request on their part, and therefore I
5) inclined to agree to it ; finr indeed I considered, thin. to carry Lh .. whole company

i to the East Indies would no! only he an intolerable severity in! tlm poor people,
4 hul. would be ruining our whole
' thought it no limach of dinner-party, but what. on unfomsr-on accident made I.
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could say we were to blame; l'ar
the laws of God and nature u'Oukl lmm forbid, that. we should refmc to take up
two boats full ol'pooplo in such a. distressed condition; and the nature of the
thing, as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to see them on
Share somewhere orather, For their deliverance; so I consented that we would
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would hermit; and, if not,
that I would carry them to Martiuico, in the W'est Indies.

296
Mwufi ,. . wtwwfirfl'

 

 

wage, lay devouring all our provisions; so I

'E;Z>t5)-A>>"-er<;eaibThe wind continua-.1 fresh easterly, but tho weather pretty good; and as itlmd
blowed continually in the points between north-m:

.1. and south--east a. long time,
we missed several Opportunities of senfiing them 10 France; for we met several

ships bound for Europe, whereof two were French, from St. Christophci's _: but
they had been so long beating up against the Wind, that they dm'sf: take in 110
passengers for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage as well for themselves :as
for those. they should take in; so we were obliged to go 0!). It was about a ire-1k
after this, that we made the banks of Ncwlbundland, where, to shorten my story,
we put all our French people on board a bank, which they hired at sea them, to
put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get

   
 
 
  
  

provisions to victual themselves with. When I my all the French went on share,
I should remember that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to
the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and to he sci: on shore on the
coast of Commamlol : l readily agreed to that g for I \x'omlcrlhlly liked the man,
and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also {our of the seamen
eutemd themselves in our ship and pi'oved very useful fellows.
l

 

' 59mm...

 

    

 
  
    
      

ADVI'TNTURES 01" ROBINSON CRCSDE.

From hence we dimcteil om- course to tho West Indies, steering nway south
and suutli~hy--ra=,i:, for about twenty (lays together, sometimes little or no wind
in, all, when we met auozher subject for our humanity to work upon, almost :13
deplorable as that- before.

it was in the lniimdo of twenty-seven dogma: five minutes north, and the
19th fish; of March 1G9-'1--5, when we CSpiCil a, sail, our course sontli-onst-euid
hi? _-uurli. \l'o soon nerceivctl it was a large vessel, and lim'. she bore up to
us; but could not at first know what to make of her, till, after coming a little
nearer, we t'.)uurl she had lost her main-ionmnst, foromast, and howsprit, and
Presently she fires a. gun as a signal of disc-"rm. The weather was pretty
good, wind at noth--uorih--wcst, a frmh gale, and we soon came to speak
with her.

W'o found her a ship of Bristol hound home from Barhadoes, but, had been
hlowu out of the road at Bm'hndow, a few days before she was ready to sail,
ha; u tnrriblu hurricane, while rho captain and chief more were hmh gone on share;
s; that, besides the terror of the Sim-m, they were but in an i mlifferont case for
good arzisls to bring the ship home. They haul been nhmul}: nine weeks at Sea,
and lmd met with another (crriblu storm after the hurricane was over, which haul
hluwn them quite (ml. of their knowledge to the westward, nml in which they had
lost their masts, as above; they told us, tho-5 (tweeter! to hare seen the Bahama,
Islands, but were than driven away again to the south-east by n strong gale of
wind at north-northwest, the some that blow now, and having no snils {.0 work the
ship with, lint u. main--conmc, and a kind of square sail upon :1-jiu3r-foratnost, which
tlmy had got. up, they could not lie near the wind, but were endeavour-big to stand
away For the (luxuries.

But. that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved for
want, of provisions, besides the futigues they had undergone: their bread and
final: was quite gone, they had not an ounce loll. in the ship, and had had hours
for eleven days ; the only mild they had was, their water was not all spent, and
1112;; had about half a barrel of flour lol'l, ; they had sugar enough; some summits,
or uwoniineats, they had nt first, but (lacy were devoured; and they had seven
melts of rum.

There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant on hoard, Wl'm were
going passengers, and, thinking the ship "Ins road}; to sail, milmppily came on
board the evening before the hurricane began; and, having no provisions of their
nw'n loll, they view: in a mom deplorable condition than the. rest; for the seamen
being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compsmsion, wn
n' 5- ha sum, for the poor passengers ; and "my were indeed in :L condition that
their misery is very hard to describe. '

1 had poi-lays not. known this part, if my curiosity had not led me, the
weather being; fair, and the wind. shawl, to go on board the ship: the second
main, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had been on board our
ship ; smrl he told me indeod, thni. they had three passengers in tho gram. cabin,
and thnt they were in a deplomlzle condition. "Nay," says he, "I believe theyare dead, for l have heard nothing of them for above. two (layss; and i was afraid
to inquire alter them," said lltt, " for I had nothing to relieve them wiih."

""9 immediately applied ourselves in give them what relief we. couhl spare;
and, indeed, I had so far overruled things will: my nephew, that I would have
victnaltml them, thuugh we had gone uwn'y to Virginia, or any part c" the
coast. 'ui America, to have supplied oruteelres : but; there was In) licrt'fisily
for that.

But now they were in a new: danger, For they were afraid, of eating: too much,
even of that little we gave them. The. mate, m- couunamier, brought six men
with him in his boat, but then poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so
weak, they could lzardl}= sit 'w their ours ; the. mate himself was very ill, and hair'-
smmcd, for he doubted he had reserved nothing from the men, and went share.
and share alike with them in m7 .'_1' bit they ate.

I cautioned him to eat. spawn; -, but set meal, before him iunnexliuteli', and he
had not (amen thrm mouthfuls before he began to he "cl: and out of order ; so he
siupped a while, and our summon mixed him up Something with some broth, which
he said would he to him both food and physio, and after he had taken it he grew
better. In the meantime, I forgot, nnt (he men--I ordered vietuals to be given
than), and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it; they were 50 ex-
ceedingly hungry that they were in a manner ravenous, and had no connnmnl of
themselves--anti two of them aw, will: so much greedinuss, that they were in
danger of their lime the next morning.

The sight ol'these people's distress was very movingr tu me and hrci "hi to
mind what _[ had a terrible prnspcm, of 11!, my first. coming on shore in my \'lnntl'
where [ had not the least mouthful uf food, 0): any hopes of procuring it; hes.
the hourly apprehension I hadof heng made the food of other cre'l-'m'us. '31".
all the while the mm: was thus relating to me the miserable mm 1: of the
s} p's company, I could not put out m"- my thought the story he had {ulrl me of
the three poor creatures in the great cabin--namely, .nc mother, her son, and tho.
nmitl-Smmnb, whom he had heard not-hi g of for two or three clays. and "Fm-m
he seemed to confess they had wholi).r neglected, their own extremitics lining so
great; by which I midcintoml, that they had really given 11mm no food nL nll --
and that therefore they mnsthe perished, and be all lying (lead perhaps on the
floor or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on hear-:1 with his
men to refreahfliem, so I also forgot not the starving crew, that- wen: in": on
hoard, but nrdered my own heat to go on board the ship, and with my; main and
twelve men to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five picres of beef to lmil.
Our surgeon (margnd the men :0 cause the meat to be boiled while they staid, and
to keep guard in the cook--room, to prevent. the men's taking it: to eat raw, or
taking it nnt of the pot hcfurc it was well hoilex'l, nml then to give ("1013' ma"- but
a little at a. time; and by this caution he preserved [he men, who would Mimi'-
wisx: have killed themselves-with that very focd that was given them on purpose
:0 saw their lircs.g - t the. same time, I ordered the mate to go mm (he gloat mhm, and see wlmt
a" condition the poor passangm's were in, and, if they were alive, to comfort them
. and give them what refreshment was proper; and the surgeon gave a large
pitcher with some of the prepared broth which he had given the mate that
was on board, and which he did not question would restore them gradually.
I was not, satisfied with this; hut, as I said ahm-'(y-hnving a game mind
to the Rene of misery, which I knew the ship itself would present me
mil; in 21 more lively manner than I couhl have it by report, I took the
Captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and wont. myself a little after
in their boat.
g I found the poor man on board almost in n tumult to get. the vicLuals' out. of
the boiler before it was ready; but my mate ohfiewad his older, and kept it guod
guard at the cook-mom door--and the men he placed (here, after using all

   

 

5.
!,

   

   

possible persuasion to have patience, kept. them of? by force; however, he caused
some buiscnit cakes to be clipped in the pot, and softened them with the liquor of
.. "4 the meat, which they cull hmwis, and gym: every one one, to stay their stomachs,
"U and luld them it. was for their own safely that he was obliged to give them but
little at a time. But. it, was all in vain; and haul not, 1 come on board, and their
:, mm commander and officers with me, and with good words, and some throats
also ofgiving them no more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-room
by force, nml tom the meat nut of the furnace--for words indeed are of n. \'crv
32 small force to an hungry belly--however, we pacified them, nnd fed tlmh

'f'misa"? Wig..." ,. _. .. ._ ,m

gradukdly nnd onutionsly for the first time, and the next time gave them more,
and at last filled their bellies, and the men did well enough.

But; the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another nature, and
far beyond the rest, for as, first, the ship's company had so little for themselves, it
was but too true that they had at first kept them very low, and at last totally
neglected them; so that for six or seven '33."; it might be said, they had really
had no food at all, and for several days before Yer}r little.

The poor mother, who, as the first mate report/ed, was it woman of good sense
nnd good breeding, had spared all she could get so affectionately for her son, that
at last she entirely sank under it; and when the mate of our ship went in, she
sat upon the lloor or deck, with her back up against the sides, between two chain
which were lashed fast, and her head thunk in between her shonldcns, likeacorpse,
though not, quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her, and,
with a spoon, put some broth into her mouth : she opened her lips, and lifted up
one hand, but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and made signs
to him, intimating, that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she
would have said, they should take care of him.

However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured
to get some of the broth into her mouth ; and, as he Enid, got two or three
spoonfulls down, though I question wsether he could he sure of it or not ; but it
was too late, and she died the some night.

The youth, who was'preserved at. the price of his most afl'ectionate mother's
life, was not so far gone: yet he lay in a. cabin bed as one stretched out, with
hardly any life left in him: he had 9. piece of an old glove in his mouth, having
eaten up the test of it: however, being young, and having more strength than
his mother, the mate got something down his throat, and he began sensibly to
revive, though, by giving him some time after but two or three spoonfnlls
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along upon the deck hard
by her mist-r938, and just like one that had fallen down with epoplcxy, nnd
struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one of her hands were clasped round
the frame of one chair, and she giiped it so hard that we could not easily make
her let it. go; her other arm lay over her head, and her foot lay both together, act
fast against the frame of the cabin table: in short, she lay just like one in thelast
ngonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

The poor creature was not only starred with hunger, and terrified with the
thoughts of death, but as the men told us afterwards, was broken-hearted for
her mistress, whom she saw dying two or three days before, and whom she loved
most tenderly.

W'e knew not what to do with this poor girl; for, when onr surgeon, who
was a man of very great knowledge and experience, and, with great application:
recovered her as to life, he had her upon his hand as to her senses; for she
was little less than distracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear
presently.M
Whoever sh:d],rond these memorandums, must be desired to consider, that
visits at sea arc. not like 9. journey into the country, where sometimes people stay
a. week or uforlnight at. A place. Our business was to relieve this disl-rosscd
ship's crew, but not, lie by for them; and though they were willing to steer the
same course with us for some days, yet we could Camry no soil to keey pace with
a ship that; had no masls: however, as their captain begged of us in help him sol:
up a. main--topmost, and a. kind of topmost to his jury-foremost, We did, as it \ ore,
he by him for three or four days, and (hen, having given him five barrels of
beef and pork, two bogsheaxls of biseuit, and a proportion of prm,lionr, and
what other things we could spare, and taking three casks of sugnr, and some
rum, and some pieces of eight, of them for salisl'zwlion, we left them, taking on
board withns, at, their own earnest request, the yonlh and the maid, and all
their goods.

The young lad was oboub seventeen yours of age, 9. pretty, well-lard, modest,
and, sensible youth; gently dejected with Lho loss of his mother, and, M ii- WWI-'5,
had lost his {other but. a far.- months before at Baubadoos. He bogged of the
surgeon to speak to me to take him onto)? the ship, for he said the cruol fellows
had murdered his mother; and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively: for
they might. have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless widow, illM,
might have preserved her alive. But hunger knows no friend, no relation, no
justice, no right, and tliorofoixa is remorscloss, and capable of no compass '1.

The surgeon told him how for we were going, and how it would carry him
away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps, in as bad circumstances almost
as we found them--flint is to say, slowing in the world. He said it mntterod not
whither ho want, if he was but delivered from the terrible crew that he was
nmnng----tlmt the captain (by which he munit me, for he could know nothing of
my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would not. hurt him 2 Mid, as for
the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she would he very thankful for it,
let us carry them whither we would. The surgoon represented the case so nf~
l'oclionntely to me, that I yielded, and We tool: them both on board, with all their
goods, except eleven hogshezuls of sugar, whirl} could not. be removed or come at;
and as the youth haul in hill of killing for them, I made his commander sign 2|
writing, obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a
merchant there, to whom the youth said he as relaled, and to deliver a letter
which I wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow :
which, I suppose, was not done; for I could never lonrn that the ship came to
l-lrisml, but was, as is must possible, lost at sen, being in so disabled 3 condition,
and so far from any land, that I am. of opinion, the limit storm she met with slim-
wards 5110 might founder in the sea: for she was leaky, and had damage in her
hold when I meal; will: her.

I was now in L'ne laiimdu of nineteen (iegi'm's thirty-two minutes and had
hitherto had a tolerable veg-ago as to weaflier, though at first the winds had been
contrary. I shall trouble nobodyv with the little incidents of wind, weather,
cm'renta, &c., on the rest of our voyage; hut, shortening my story for the sake

302 '
of what- is in folloW, shall observe, that I Mme to my old habitation, the ishmd,
on the 10th of April 4595. U. was with no small difficulty that I found the
place: for as l came to it, and warn. from it before, on the sonih and east side .-.f
the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in bcl'ween the main and
the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any land mark, I did my: knew
it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it or not.

"'0, heat about u great while, and went on show on 59" nl gsfandg on the
month of the great river Oreunuque, but none for nay-purpose: only this I learnt
by my wasting the shore, let. I was under one great mistake hefore,name1x-,that
lhc continent which '1' tho'ughe. l. '::w from the i 'zuid i lived in, was re 1
continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, renehing from one 1,, ":0
other side (if the extended mouth of thal- gmnt river; and that the savages who
came to my island were not properly those which we call Cm'ibhms, hm- islanders,
and mixer "whirl-inns of the samckind, who inhabited something nearer m our
side than the rest.

In short, I visited several 01' the islands in no purpose; some I fnnm'l wan:
hrhahilori, mid some were not. On one of them I found some Spaniards, and
thought they had lived there; but, speaking with them, found they had a. Slunll
lay in a small creel: hard by, and that they came thither to make will, and catrh
some pcm'l mussels, if they could 3 bllL'l-hBy belonged to the Isle de Trinidad,
which lay farther north, in the latitude of ten and eleven degrees.

Thus, coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship, snnmimes
with the Frenchman's shallop (which-we had found :1. convenient heat, and
therefore kept her will! their very good will), at length I came fair on tho. snnili
side of my islnml, and 1 presently knew the very countenance of the place; so I
brought the ship safe in an anchmr broadside with the little creek, where was my
old habitat-ion.

As soon as I saw the place, I cnlled for Friday, and asked him if he l<l:\"\V
where he. was? He lonlmd about a little, and presently clapping his hands, cried,
" Oh, yes! Oh, there! Oh, ycsl 0h, theml" pointing to our old lnil-ltal-ion, and
fell a-rlnncing and nnpcriug like a mad fellow; and 1 had lunch ado to keep him
from jumping into the son, to swim ashore to the place.

"W'ell, Friday," said .1, "do you. think we shall find any body hero, or no
and what do you think, shall we see your father 2'" The fellow atoud mute as a.
stock a good while : bui: when I namrxl his father, the poor affectionate creature
locked dejected, and I could see the tears run down his {are Very plentifnlly.
" W hat is the rnaitm', Friday '2" said I; "are you troubled because you may see
your lhiher'i"---~"No, nol" 533m he, shaking his head, "no see him more, no mm.
more see again l"----"'Why so," said. 1., "Friday? How do you know that?"
" Oh, nol Oh, no !" says Friday, "he long ago die, long ago, he much (Ii-l man."
"Yell, well," said 1', "Friday, you don't know: but shall we see an,' hurl): else
then?" The follow, it seem; had hellm'cyes than I, and he points just to the
hill above my old house; and though we lay half a league off, ho. cries out, "Me
seel me See! yes, yes; we see much man there, and there, and there." I looked,but I could see nobody-no, not. with a pompectim glass ; which was, I sappo'se,
hecsnse I could not hit the place: for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry
the nnxt day, and there were five or six men all together stood to look at the ship,
not knowing what to think of us. . '

As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused 1hr. Engliish ancient
to be spread, and fired three guns to give thefm notice we \Ycre'fnends; and
about half a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smolce rise. lmm lhe side
of the creek: so I immediately ordered n boat. out, taking Ii'mlsxy \mh me;
and hanging uni. a white flag, or a flag of truce. I went directly on shun>>,
taking with me (he young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the whole story
of nwliving there, and the manner of ii, and ovary particular both nl myself
and ihnse thal- I lcft them, and who was on that account extremely. demons
to go with me. "'e had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had
found any new guest there. which we did not know nf' ; but we had no need 0f

wenlmns.

As we went on short:
upon the tide of ilnm'l
near high water, we
rowed directly into the
creek; and the iii-sf.
man I fixed my eye
upon was lhc Spaniard
whese life .1 had saved,
and whom I knew by
his face perfectly well;
as in his habit, I shall
describe it afterwards.
l' ordered nobody to go
on show: at first but
myself : but there was
no keeping Friday in
the bani: for the aliectionnte cranium had spied his hither at. A distance, a good
way off of the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of him ; and if they had
not let him go on shore, he would have jumped into the sea. He was no sonnm'
on show, but he flew away to his father likn an arrow out of a huw. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to have scan the
first transports of this pom' fellow's joy, when he came tn his fflfilei'--~l)0\5' he
embraced him, kissed him, m'ohed his face, took him up in his aims, set him down
upon a tree, and lay down byhim--thcn stood and looked at him, as any one
would look at a strange picture, for a. quarter of an hour together--then lay
down upon the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then got up
again, and stared at him; one would have thought the fellow bewitchcd. But
it. would have made a dog laugh (0 see how the next any his passion ran out
another way: in the morning he walked along the shore, "to and again, with

804VADVENTURES or xunmsox (.'RUSUE.

h'w father, several hours, always lending him by the hand as if he had burn a
lady; and every now and than would come to ['etch something or other 1211'
him from the 1mm, either :7. lump of sugar, 0v : drum, a biscuit, or something
01' other that was good. In the aftel'nuun his fmlins run anuther way, fm'
then he would set the oh! man down upon the ground, and {lance nhmu. him. and
make a thousand antic. postures and gestures; and ah the while he id this he
"oulii be talking to him, and toliing him one story or mmhor of his travels,
and of what happened tr) him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the sumo filial

*1 .
i
q
i,

{Tho Mina.)

affection was to be Found in Christians to their parents in our pmrts of the world,
one wuuhl be tempted to say there. hardly would have been any need of the lith
comumndmcm.

But this is u digression; I yet-um to my landing. IL would he endless to take.
notice 01" all the ccicmmiics and civilities that. the Spmiimls received me with.
The first Spanim'd, whom, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I sttvod
is the boat, attended by one mom, carrying a flag ol' 1. . e also
, but 1: had no thoughts, no notion, of

 

---lt<: L'nnm ion
1 :{l he did not only not, know me at. 1
its being me that was conic, till I spoke to
" do you not know me '3" ..-\t. which he Spoke not :l word; but gi ng his inns-hot.
to the man that was with him, throw his :trnz-s ahead, and, 5:: ing something in
S;xn'.1'~li that I did not. yorfcctly hear, came forward and unhmectl me, telling me
he was lltlefiuifil'alc not to know that fat-a ngnin that he hurl once soon it; ol' an
nngel'fmm Hem-ex: sent to sure hi.>> he snitl abundance. of very handsomu
things, ' .q well-bred Spaniard always knows how ------:tml than beckoning to
the person that nttendad him, bade him go aunt call out his comrades. Ho
than naked me if I would walk to my ohl habitation, where he would giro "K'-
p 'smu of my own house again, and when; l. should see thm'c had been but: mean

 

 
 
 

   

.1. "Smgnor," aid l,in Portugnose,

 

 

 

   

 

itllln'Ltfienjli'liS. So I walked along with him; hut, alas! I could no more find
the plate again than if I ltstcl never been there: for they had planted :0 many

 

a postum, so thick and close to oml another, in ten
do,
.0)"

trees, and Ethical thorn in
r qr. time they were grown :50 hig, that, in short, thia place was inacoo
6300p: ' bitch windings and blind wn'ys as they themselves only who made
could find.

I :twml thorn, what. put them up]: all time fortifications? He told me, I
would say; there "'11: need enough of it when they had. SS~ you an account how
tht._ had pitssed their time since their arriving in the island, especially o'hzr
thcv had the m' fortune to find that I was gone; he told me ho could no! hut
"arbitration in mygoud Fortune, when he heard that l. was gone in
:t. 540ml ship and to my 3.. tamion- and that he had oftentimes :t strong I
_(mit>:t,1.hnr one time or other ht: should. sue me again: but nothing that. (,
hotel him in his life, he said, was XI) surf ing and inflicting to him at first, as the
disappointment he was mult'r when he come had; to the is Ind, and found 'I was
not tlzerc.

.-\> to the three barbarians (so hu called them) that were left: behind, and of
mm lze mid he had a long; story totell mo, the Spaniards all thtmght thmurclvvs.
,h hotter among; tho savages, only that their tmnzh'er was so small, " -\r'|,"
.o, "haul they been strong enough, we had hem long ago in p, "
an with thnt he crossed hints: t' npon tho brunet. " lint, . " guy) he "I hope
3:0" will not he. displeas'fl when l shrill tell. you how, forced by necessity we were
obliged, for our own preservation, to disarm them. and make them our subjects,
who wouid not he content with being ntovlnrntely our masters, but would hr. our
"mum-ms." I' answered, "I was heartily afraid of it. when ,I. left them there;
and nothing troubled me at my parting from the island, but thth they were not
come h- .1" that I i'uight have put. them in possmsion of every thing first, and lo i't.
rho other in a state of Bill)'. "Lion, as thcydeserred: but if the): had mclucod them
to it, I was very glnd, and should he Very i'm' from finding 5: y fault with it, for I
know they were a parcel of refractory, nngovnrnnhlc villains, and were fit: for any
manner of udsehicl'."

   
   

 

 

 
 

   

 

 

 

n'l
 

While I 1111.: saying this, came the man whom he 111111 semi 11:11:11, 111111111111 1:1;11
11111. eleven men more. In the 111'st they 1111111 in, it 11113 11111105511111; 10 guns 1111:11
nation they were of; 11111110 111111111 1111 - 111', 110th to them 111111 to me. 1 11st he
1111112de 111e, 1113! pointing to them, 1111111, "Them, si1',:11.. mm: 111' the zaomth'mon 1...
"-110 owe their lives in You" , "21.1111 then turninn' to 1.1117111, 111111 pointing in 11111.,11'111'1'1
111cm 11110111 who I 1111s, 11111111 111111111 1.11121r all came up 1.1111: 111' 111111, 11111 as if 11111
111111 been sailors, and or1'1i11a1j1- 111'0111, 111111 I the like, 1.11.1: 11111111: 115 if 1-1111 had
been 1111111151 1101's 01' 11011111111211, :11111 I :1 monarch 01: :1. great. conqueror; .
behaviour 11' 11s to the hut ttlcgree 010113;ng and courteous, 111111 for mixed 111111 a
mmfly. majestic gravity, which very well became them: and, 1'
s1) 1'. 111.11 more manners than I, 11111 I scarce know how lo rccei
much less how to return 11111111 111 1111111.

The history of their coming 1:0, and (10111111111, in the island after 11

   

 

   

   
 

 

1150111111 away,
is so 1'e111311'1111h10, 111111 has so 1115111}; 11111511111113, which 11111 1111111111 pnri of 1m: 111111111111
will help Lu) understand, 111111 which will in 111051. (11' 1111-. particulars, 1111111 to 1.11:1;
moonlit I have alrem'ly given, that I cannot but commit them with great (lelighr,
11) 1111'. reading of thusu 1.11mi name after me.

I 15112111 11olm1ge1' 1101111111 11111 $1011 with :1 relul'mn 111 1.1111. first peraon, which

 

will put me to the expense of 11:11 1111; 15111111, "1111111 134," 511111 " '11 1111's.," 1111-11 " [11:
(11111 " and " I tol-l 1111115," 111111 the like: but I ll 011111-119. 111.1: {11111
historically, 115110.511 as I can gather 1119111 (1111 <11 1113'n112111o1'1',{1m111mm 11 ~y
111191.011 111 me, z1111li1'vm what. I met with 111 111;, comeming 1111.11 them, 111111 1111.11
the place.

111 01110.11 to (10 this succinctly, and 115 intelligihly as I Q1111, I must go 11111:; 1o
(-1. e circumstances in which I-- 1011; the 151111111, 111111 which 1.110 persons were. in of
whom I am t1) $1193 11. J\s first, it is necessarv 1.11 1'cpczxt,thub I 112111 511111. :111zx1'
s father and the Spnninrd, the two \1' :11,\=c 11111.: I 111111 111111011 11'11111 1111'-
5'11 cw--I 5.11,] 11.111 sent them aw'w 1n :1 huge 111111011 to flu. 11111111,." I then

11:011n'l11 it, to fetch over 1110. 91111114113 1.101111131110113 11.111111 he 111111 luit heinir 11 111111,
in order to 5mm 11'. em from 1119. like c 11:1111111 1111111111 121-111 been 111,:11111 111 11110
5110011111 them for 1111'. 111' c.1e1zt, 111111 111211, 1'." possible, 1111 might toggclmhm 111111 some
way For 0111' deliverance. 1111.111'111111'11.

"11211 I sent them 1111111, I had no 1133111111 ppenrnnco 01,111' the least room to
10111" 1,111 my own deliverance, '1111 more than I 111111 (wentv year: be fore; 11111011
1052 11:11.1 1 8111' forehu 'owlmlge of 1111111: 1111111 11111111 11111-11, .1 mean 1111-111 English ship
coming on shore them; (of etch them 1111;111111 it could 11:11 11111 111: 11 101-14 gr eat
5111:111'1150 10 them when they cnmc 11:11:11,111): only to PS1111 111nt I was gm. .e, 1111 1.11
111111 tlu'ee slrangerc le't 01111111 slml, p11 '11 1151111 111111 1.111111 11:11. behind 1111'
which would otherwise have 1311121 their mm.

The. first t11i11g,hower-cr, "'111111 I 111111111111 1111/11. ll'at I 11
left 05, was of their 01111 11:11'51 111111 I desired he 111111111 g1
account of his 10111111; 1111111 to his comm-1.1111111 with 11 11: 11111:, when I
fetch 111cm 111-er. 11111011111111 there. "'11. little 111111211111 that 1111111 for
remarkable happened to them on the way, they 1111111131111. calm 111111111

   

    
  

 

11: 1.123111 where I
1111'. :1 11211111111111
11t him in
:otlrirg
.1, 111111 :1

  

s.ADVENTURES OF R013i.l\'$0l\' CELSUE.

  

smooth son: for his cowitrymen, it. could not be doubted, he said, but that they
were overjoyed in see him (it scents ho was the principal man among them, the
captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been dead some time):
they were, he said, the more surprised to soc him, because the}.r knew that, we had
fallm into the hands of the urges, who, they were satisliol, would devour him,
as they did all the rest of their prisoners, that when he toid them the story of his
deliverance, and in what manner he was iiu'nished for carrying them away, it was
like :1 dream to them ; and their autoniahmcnt, they said, was something like that
of J useph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and told them the story of
M9 exztltation in Pharaoh's com-L; but when he showed them the arms, the powder,
the hall, and the provisions that he brought them for their journey, or Voyage they
wore rrswroll to thenueh'es, took a. just share in the. joy of their deliverance, and
prepared to come nwny with him.

a The filsf. hnsinxeSs was to get canoes; and in this flier were obliged not to
: stick so much upon the honest part of it, but, to trespass upon thoir Friendly
- "NR": and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguiw, on pretence of going out

n-fishing or for pleasure. >

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      

 

g)
i

     
   
 

In these they came away the next morning; it seems they wanted no time to
gut. themselves ready, for they had no baggage _; neither clothes, nor provisions,
nor any other thing in the world, but what they had on then), and a few roots to
eat, of which the); used to make their hremi.

Q'?' They were in all three weeks absent ; and in that time, unluchily for them I
'3 had the occasion ofl'ered for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and to
a I'M Ofi' from (he isianrl ; leaving three of the most, impudent, hardened, nngovcrncri,
L

3'2,

 

disagreeable Villains behind me that. any mun could desire to meet with, to the
poor Spnixmrds' great grief and disappointment, you may be sure.
' :msADV an'ruREs 01: ROBINSON cat-50E.

 

The onl}r just thing the rogues (lid, war, that. when the Spaniards came on
shore, they gave my lctier to them, and gave them provisions and other relief, as
Iliad ordered them to do; also they gave them the long paper of directions,
which I had left with them, containing the particular method which I took for
managing every part of my life there--<<the way how 1 hahccl my bread, bred up
my tame goats, and planted my corn--410w I cured my grapes, made my pots, and,
in a word, every thing I did : all this hning written down, they gave the Spaniards,
two of whom understood English well enough; nor did they refuse to accom-
modate the Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very well for some
time. They gave them an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they
began to lire very socialvly; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much
of my method, and Friday's father together, managed all their affairs ; for as for
the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shout parrots, and
catch tortoises, and when they caineJiemc at night, the Spaniards provided their
suppers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the others but have
left them alone, which, however, they could not find in their hearts to do long;
but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves and Would not.
let others eat neither. The differences, nevertheless, iron: at first but trivial, and
such as are not worth relating : hot at last it broke out into opnn war, and it.
hogan with all the rudeness and insolunce that can he imagined, without reason,
without provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to common sense ; and
thongh, it is true, the first relation of itcame from the Spaniards themselves whom
I may call the accuser-s, yet. when I came to examine the fellows, they could not
deny a word of it.

lint before i came to the particrdarg' ol' this part, I must supply a defect in
my former relation; and this was, that I forgot to set down among the rest, that
just as we were weighing anchor to set sail, there happened a little quarrel on
board our ship, which I was afraid once would turn out to a second mutiny ; nor
was it appeased till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his
assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the most refractory fellows
prisoners, he laid them in irons: and as they had been active in the former
disorders, and. let fall some ugly dangerous words the second time, he tln'enlcncd
to carry them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and
running away with the ship.

This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, frightened some
other men in the ship; and some of them had put it in the heads of the rest, that.
the captain only gave them good words For the present till they should come to
some English port, and that then they should be all put into a jail, and tried for
their lives.

The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it; nyon which it
was desired that I, who still passed for a. great man among them, should go down
with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell them, that they might be RSSHWL if
they behaved well the rest; of the voyage, all they had done for the time past
 

should he pardoned. SoI went, and after anElng my houour'a word to them,
they appeal-<<3x1 easy, and the more so, when I caused the two men who were in
irons to he released and forgiven.

But this mutiny haul brought us to an anchor for that night, the wind also
falling calm. Nut morning we found that our two man, who lml been laid in
irons, hml stole each of them a xnushnt and some other weapons: what powder
or shot they hurl we knew not; and had taken the shin's piuuuce, which 55515
not yet hauled up, and run away with her to their companions in mguery on
shore. .

As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore, with twelve men
nml the mute, and away they wont to seek thd rogues: but thcy could neither
fiml them, nor any of the rest; for they all fled into the woods when they saw the
host coming on shore. The mute was once resolved, in justice to their rognery,
to have. destmycci their plantations, burnt all .thcir household stull am] l'urr'riturc,
and left them to shift without it: but having no order he let all alone, left every '
thing as they found it, and, bringing the pinnacn away, came on board without
them.

These two man made their number fire: but the other three rilluius were. so
much wickeder than those, that after they had hen:- two or three (lays together,
they turned their: two new comers out of floors 'lo 311R} l'ut' themselves, and would
have nothing to do with them ; nor could they, for it good while be persuaded to
give thnm any food: as for tln'. Spaniards, they ware not yet come.

"The" the Spaniards came first on share, the business begun to go fern-aural ,
(lie Spaniards would have persuaded the three English brains to have taken in
l'lh'fil' two conntijynmn again, that, as they said, they might ho all one family ; but
they would not lmm' of it; :50 the WV) pour fellows lived by themselves, uml
finding nothing but imlustr}r and apylicntion would make them live comfortable,
they pitched their tents on the: north shore of the island, but a little more lo the
west, in be out of the dangar of the surges, who ailing": landed on the east parts
of the island.

Hart; they built two hnL-z, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up their
magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards having given them some corn for
seed, and especially same of the pens which l hml lcfi them, they dug, and planted,
and encloscd, after the. petrol-n I had set for them all, and begin) to 1ch pretty
well. 'l'lmir first crop of corn was on the ground, and though it was but. a, little
bit of land which they had (lug; up at first, having had but a little time, yet itwas
enogh to relieve. them, and find them with bread or other eatuliles: and. one of
the fellows, being the cook's mate of the ship; was very ready at making soul),
puddings and Such mzher pl'apeu'ations as the rice and the milk, and such little
flesh as the at, furnished him to (lo.

The)? ""9 gOing 0" in 11- little thriving posture, when the three unnatural
rogues, their own countrymen too, in mare humour, and to insult them, came and
bullied them, and 14M them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning
me, had given them possession of it, and nobody else had any right to it; andd--n them, they should build nu houses upon their ground, unless they would pay
them rent 1hr them.

The two men thought they had jcsmd at first, and asked them to come and sit
down, and see what line homes they were that they had built, and tell them what
rent they denmuded: and one of them merrily told them, if they were ground-
landlords, he hoped if they built tenements upon the land, and made improve
mean, they would according to the custom of all Landlords, grant them a long
lease; and bade them go fetch a scrivener to draw writings. One of the three,
damning :uul rnghwg, told them tlmy should see they were not in jest ; and going
to a little place at a distance, where the honest men had made a fire to dress their
vietnals, he takes a liwhraud and claps it to the OllLsiLle of their hut, and very
fairly set it on fire: and it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes, if
one OI the two hail not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the lire out
with his feet, and that not without some difficulty ion.

The Yellow was in such It rage at the honest man's thrusting him away, that he
turned unon him with npoln he ad in his hand : and had not the man avoided
the blow very nimhly, and run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
(1. ~ 'nde, seeing; the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately
the came both our with their muskets; and the man that was first struck atwkh
the pole knocked the fiellow down who began the quarrel, with the stock of his
musket, :md that hel'ore the other two muld come to help him, and then seeing
the rest come, they stood mgelher, and, presenting the other ends of their pieces
to them, lmde them (a standoff.

The atlmm had, lira-arms with them ten; but one of the two honest men
bolder than his comrade, and made desyrrate by his danger, told them if they
offered to more hand. or foot tlmy were all. dead men, and holdl}l commanded
them to lay down their arms. They did nor, indeed, lay down their nrms, but
seeing him resolute, it brought them to a purley, and they consented to lnlm their
worm 2d man with them and hegoue; and indeed it seems the lellow was
wounded sufficiently with the blow: however, they were much in the wrong,
inee they had the advantage, that they did not disarm them ell'eriitally, as
theymight have done, and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and .
them an account how the rogues had tie ' *rl them, for the three villains studied
nothing but: revenge, and every (15,}r .L; e them some. inthufltion that they
did so.

But not to crowd this part with an account: of the lesser part of their rogneries,
such as trending down their corn, shooting; three young kids and a shegour,
which the poor men haul got to hreed up tmne for their store, and, in a word,
plaguing them night and day in this manner, it forced the two men to such
in desperation, that they resolved to fight them all three the tits: time they had 9,
{'an opportunity .ln order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they Pulled
it, that was my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards :11] lived
together at that. time, intending to have :1 fair battle, and the Spaniards should
stand by to see fair play. So they got up in the morning before day, and cameto the place, and called the Englishmen hy their names, killing a Spaniard that
answered, that they wanted to ,epeztl; with llmm.

ll, lmppennrl that, the day hnfiarc, two of the Spaniards having been in the
worm, had. seen one of the two I'IngliShmen, whom, fur distinction, I call the
honest man; and h.) had made :1 and complaint :0 the Spaniards of the barlmrons.
usage they had met with from their three countrymen, and how they had ruined
their plaiiemion, and (lr--stroyecl their corn tlmi they had laboured so hard l"
bring forward, and killed the. mach--gout, and Lln'ir llirno hidss, h was all
(lmy land provided for their sustenance--and. that, if he and his friem . , meaning
the Spaniards, did not, assist them again, they should he starred. When the
Spaniards came home that night, and MW)- worn nil at. supper, he took Lhe
I'rnmlom to repl'm'c the three Englislnnmi, though in gentle and mmmm'ly terms,
and asked them how they could be .50 cruel. they heing harmless, iiiofl'vnsim

fellows, and flint they were putting themselves in a w: '10 subsist by their lnhmm
and that it had cost them :1 great deal to bring th as to such perfection :15
they had.

Ono of tho Englishmen returned very briskly, " What had they to do there?
That they came on shore without leave, and that. Lhev should nnL plant or build
upon the. island; if. was none of their grunnd,"--" W hy," says the Spaniard, vary
calmly, "Sc-ignnr Ingh'se, they must. nn.. starve." 'l'lic Englishmen replied, like
a true rough-haw" tarpzmlin, "They might starve, if they chow; they slwuld no!
plant nor build in thm'. plncn."--"Bnt what must. Lhcy do, then, Seignor?" s 'S
the Spaniard. Another of the 'lmitee returned, " Do! why, they should heare not boughtwith your money; yuu have no right in make them sen'mxls"

v a . . an )-.-. _ :- ' . . ..
3 "me Englishmen tum" cred, . [le wand lms News, the governor had given It to ll
qf them, an no man had Rhythms to 80 there but themselves; am! with that swore '

v. servants, and work for us."----" But. how can you expect that of them? Thcv J

I r 1 - II
I)"; by lns Mnkmylthst he would go and burn all lhnir new lmm-- the" should Imihl

' none upon them land."

5: "'VVhy, Selgnor," says the Spaniards, " by the same rule, we must be Your '
(\l

 

servants too."--"A}=," says the bold dog. and so you shall too, lwfin'n we have )
done "ith 3'01"" mixing two or three oaths in the proper intervals rrl' his sponczh. '
The Spaniard only smilvrl no, that. and made him no an. .r. IIOWL'N'CI', this 11m"
discourse hail heated them; and starting up, one says In the other --I think it was

110 they called Will Atkins--" Come, Ja " let us. gr) and have the other brush
with them; we will demolish their castle, I will unrrnnt you; they shall plant no
colony in our dominions."

Upon this, they were all trouping away, with every man a gnu, a pistol and a.
sword, and muttered some insulent thingx among themselves, of what they
would do to the Spaniairls, too, when opportunity offered; but the Spuninwls,
it seems, did not. so pea'l'ecziy mnl and them as to know nll the particulars;
only; um, in general, the}; threnrenczl (lzcm hnr-l fur taking the two Englislnueu's

itlu-r they went, or how they bestowed their Lime tint evening, the

i s snid they (lid nntJiuow; but it menu they wandered about. the country
part of the night; and. than, lying (lawn in the plant: which I used to <<all my
bower, they were weary, and orci'slcpi thennselVCS. The case was this : ---Tliey
has! resolved to stay till midnight, so in take the poor man when they were asleep ,
and they acknowledged ii. after-mud>>, intending to set tire to their huts while they
new in them, and either hurn Lheui in them, or murder them as they came out :
and, us malice sehlmn sleeps very sound, ii, wns very stmnge they should not
have been kept waking.

However, as the tun men had also a design upon them, as I have snirl, though
at much fairer one than that. of burning; and murdering, it happened, and very
luckily for them all, that they were up and gone ant-and, before the bloody--minded
rogues came to their huts.

When filmy ennui lhiiher, and 1' ouinl the men gone, Atkins, who, it" seems, was
the i'orwanlrsrt man, culled out to his companions, " Ila! Jack, here's the mm;
but, (1--)) them the birds nre fluwn 3" They muserla while to think what should
he the vermin-n of their going abroad so scan and suggested presently that the
Symiinrda harl given them nutice of it: and r. i1 ii that they shook hands and swore
to onu another that. they \Youlkl he ruvengcd of the Spaniards. As soon as they
had made this bloody bargain, they fell [0 work with the poor men's habitation <<--
thoy Llid not set fire indeed to any thing, "hm. they pulled clown hath their houses,
and pulled thorn so limb from limb, that they left. not the lens: stick standing, or
scarce any sign on the ground where they stood--they tare all their little
mllected household stuh' in pieces, and threw everything about in such a manner,
that the poor men found. afterwards, some of their things a mile off from their
habitation.

When flxcy had done this they pulled up all the young trees which the poor
men hntl planlcrl-pulling up the enclosure they had made to secure their cattle
and their corn : and, in n wort], sacked nncl plundered every thing, as completely
as a herd of Tartan; would have done.

The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and haul resolved
to fight. them wherever they had been, though they were but two to three ----so
that, had they Incl7 there certainly would have been hluozlxliecl among them; for
they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due.

l'iut Providence took more care to keep them asunder, than they themselves
could do to meet-for, as they had (logged one another, when the three wem
gone. thither, the two were here--and afterwards, when the two wont to iincl
them, the three were come to the old habitation nguiu : we shall sen their dill'cring;
conduct presently. When the three came hack like furious creatures, flushed with
the rage which t.m work they hnd been about put them into, they canne up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way of squT and bravado; mid
one or "13'" stepping "P m 0"" ol' the Spaniards, fl" 31' the? lnnl been a. muplc c-l'
buys a: play, tithes. hold of his hat, us it was nyon his head, and, giving it a twirl
about, flooring in his: film, says he to him, "' And you, S 'gnor chk Spuni ,
shall him: the same sauce, if you do not mind your manners." The Spaniard,
who, though quite a civil man, was, as brave as n man could desire to he, and
\vithall a strong well~mmlc man, looked steadily at him for a good while; and
then, having no wenpou in his hand, slapped gravely up to him, and nith one
hlow (11" his list hunched -m down, as an ex fellcxl with n lll)'.Q-:I\'eSS at which
one of the rogues, insolent as tho. first, fired his final at the Spaniard iminediurelr :
he missed 1 iody indeed, for the bullets went throng-h his hair, but one of llimu
touched the. tip 01' his ear, and he hie-:1 pmtty much. The blood made the Spaniard
believe he was more hurt than he really \ _, and that put him into 5mm). hunt, fur
before he Mtcd all in a p ' cl: Calm; but now resolving to go through with his
work, he stooped and wok tun fellows musket, whom he had hunched down, and
was just. going: to shoot the man who had fired at him, when the rest of the
Spmxinrds being in the cave, came out, and calling to him not Lo shoot, tlnry
stepped in, secured the. other two, and, tool: tlzcir arms from them.

'Wheu they were thus isarmcri, nnrl found this}: had maule all the Spnnia
their enemies, as well. as their own connfrynieu, they began to cool and, giving
the Spaniards hotter words, would have had their arms ngnin ; but a Spaniards
considering the {end that was between them and the. other two E} glishmcn, and
flint it would be the lies: method they could take to keep them from one another,
told them they would do them no harm; and if they would live pox.>> , Hwy
WOuhl he very willi gto assist and associate: with them, as they did 1 I; hub
that they could not think of giving them their arms again, while they cared sq
msolmd l 1:: do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and hail men
threatened them all to make them their servants.

The rogues were. not more capable to hear reason than to act reason; but
being refused their arms, they wont raring nwnj', and raging lilac madman,
threatening what they would do, though they had no ling-arms : hut the
Spaniards, rlcspising their threatening, told them they should tum: earn hon-
the}r ofiered any injury to their plantntion or cattle: far it" they did, ll
would shoot them as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever they l'uunnl the.
and if they fell into their hands alive, the)r should certainly be hanged. Howev -
this was far from muting them: but away thug; wont, swearing and ringing like
l'urieis of hell. 1 ~ snon-as they were gone, came hack the two men in passion and
ram: enough also, though of another kind ; for, having; been at their plantation,
and finding it all demniished and destl . as above, it will easily he snppused
tale, the Spaniards were no eager to tic-l1 them theirs; and it. was strange enough
to find, that three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment
{it all.

The Spaniards indoctl deapisud them, and especially hsring thus disarmed them,
made light of their threatunings; but the two Englishmen rusolvcd to have their
remuly against them, what pain some): it cost to find them out.

But the Spuninrds interposed here too, and told them, that they were
already disormed : ley could not consent tho t Llicy (the two) should pursue
them with lire-arms, and perhaps kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who
was their governor, " ms wili endeavour to make them do you justice, if you will
leave it. to us; for us there is no doubt but they will come to us again when their
passion is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance, we promise you
to maxim no pence with them, without having a. full satisliwtion for you : and upon
this condition we hope you will promise to use no violence with then), other than
in your defence."

The two 1'1an men yielded to this very awkwardly, {HKl with great reluc-
tnnce; hut the apaniards protested they did it only to keep them from bloodshed,
and to make all easy (1|. last ; for, sold they, We are not so maul}: of us---- hero is;
room enough for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends.
At length they did consent, and waited for tho issue of the thing, living for some
(lays with the Spuni: for their own habitation was destroynd.

in about fire dig-s imc the thren vagrants tired with wwidering, and almost
starved with hunger, having chiefly lived- on rurtlee" eggs all that while, came back
to the grove; and finding m_ Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the governor,
and two more with him, Wu. mg by the side of the creek, they come up in a Very
subn'iissire humble manner, and imaged to he received again into the family. The
Spaniards used them civilly, but. bald them they had noted so mmuturnlly by their
countrymen, and so very grow}; by them (the Spaniard>>), that they could not
(:0an to any conclusion without consulting tho. two Englishmen, and the rest;
but, however, they would go to them, and discourse about it, and they should
know in lmlf :ui hour. It may be: guessed that they were very hnrd put to if. ;
for it set-ms, as the}; worn to wait this half hour for an answer, they bagged he
would send them out some bread in the moantimu; which he did, and .9th them
at the sum; Lime a large piece of goat's flcdll, and a broiled parrot, which they site
very heartily, for they weir. hungry enough.

Alter half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and'n long debate had
about them, their two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned before, and therefore could
not deny now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators between
them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three, while
they won: naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their follows' two huts, one to ho ol' the same dimensions, and the other larger
than they won; before; also to fame their ground again, where they had pulled
up the fences; plant trees in the room of those pulled up ; dig up the land again,

3H3
for planting corn, where they had spoiled it; and, in a Word, to restore every
thing in the same state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirelyr it
could not he -~ the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees and hedges,
um. being possible in he rnoovcred.

Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had plenty of provisions given
them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society begun to live
pleasantly and ngrccahlytogcaher again; only that these three fellows could never
be persuaded to \u'n'k--sl moan, not for themselves, cxorpl; now and then a little,
just as they pleased; however, the Spaniards told them pluiul -', that if they would
but live sociably and friendly together, and study in the whole the good of tho
plantation, the}; would be content to um for them, and let them n'alli about and
be as idic as they pleased; and thus, having lived pretty well together for a moulll
or two, the Spaniards gave thou: their arms (gain, and gave. them liberty to go
abroad with them as before.

It was not above a. week after they had these arms, and Went abroad, but the
ungrateful creatures began to he as insolcnt 5L: hol'ore ; hut, however, an accident
lulppenuil presently upon Ll' which muiangered the: safety of them all: they
we obliged to lay by all pursue. resentment, and look to the preservation of
their lives.

It happened one. night that the Spaniard governor, as I call him, that is to
say, the Spaniard \leon life I had saved, who was now the captain, or lender, or
governor of the rest, found himself \" _'.' uneasy in the night, and could In; no
means gel. any sleep : he was perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only
found. hie thoughts tumultuous; and his miml ran upnn men lighting, and killing
one. another, but was broad awake, and could not by any means got any sleep: in
short, he lay a great while: but growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
r .. .i As they lay, being so Ilmny of them, upon goat skins, laid thicli upon such
Couches and pads as they made f or themselves, and not in hammocks, and ship.
hcdx, as I did, who was but one, so the}r had little in do, when they were willing
lo .3, but to get upon their foot, and perhaps put on a coat, such us it was, and
their pumps, and they were ready for going any way that. their thoughts guided
them.

Being thus gotten up, he looked out; hut, luring (lurk, he could see liillc or
nothing; and besides, the. trees which I had planiod, as in my former account. is
described, and which were now grown tall, intercepted his sight, so that he could
only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight night; and, hearing no noise,
he returned :uul laid him down again. But, it was all one ; hu could not sleep,
nor cauld he compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts were. to the
last degree uneasy, and yet he know not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and coming
in, another of them wake and, calling, asked who it was that was up '3 The
governor told him how it had hum with him. "Say you so!" says the other
Spaniard; "such things am not to be slightexl, I. assure you-- there is certainly
some mischief waking," says he, "near 118;" and presently he asked him ,
311

  

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

' '9
- Mary/9,4" :.~'_ 13C/"... fl}
"\Vhere are the Englishmen '3"-----"Thcy are all in their hula," says he, " sail:
enough." It seems, the Spaniards had kept posse" ion of the main apartment, and
hail inside a place where the three Englishmen since their last mutiny, always
quarleml by themselves, and could not conic al. the rest. "Well," '
Spaniard " there is some ig in it, I am persuaded from my own experien

am certain our spirits embodied hare converse with, and receive intelligence from,
the spirits nuembndied, and inhabiting the invisible world; and this I'Liendly
notice is given for our ndrant; me, if we know how to make use of it. Come,"
saysha, "letnsgoout and look abrcnd; and if we .uid nothing at all in it, to
justify our trouble, I'll tell you a. story Lo the purpose, that, shall convince yon of
the justice of my pronosing it.

In a word, they went out tn go in the top of the hill, where I used to go; but
they, being strong, and in good company, nor alone, as I was, used none of my
cautions to go up the ladder, and then pulling il. up after them, to go up a ascend
stage to the top, but were going round through the grove unconccrimd am!
unwary, when they wcm surprised with seeing a light as of a. lire, a very little. way
0E from them, and hearing the voices of men, not of one or two, but of a great.
number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing an the . , it was
my constant cam to prevent them making the least discovery 01' there being any
inhabitants upon the piace; and when lay any iieueSsily, (hey came i0 know it,
they felt it so effectually, that. they that gel: away were warm able to give any
accountm" it, for we disappem'cd as soon {13. possible, :or did u"- any final. had
seen me escape to tell. any one else, except it were the thine s: was in our last
encounter, who jinnpnd into the boat, of whom I mentioned that Inns an" ill they
should go home and bring more help.

W hc'thcr it was the consequence of the escape of time men, that 541 great a
number crime nmv together, or whether hey came ignorantly, and by ilLCiElCNi-; on
their usual bloody errand, the Spaniirm could not, it: seems umh and: but
whatever it WT' it had been their business, either to hero concealed themselves,
and not have so n-ihem at all, muchl (0 here let the S" . 9 have 59911 that
there. were any inhabitants in the place 3 but, to have fallen upon Iliem so effectu-
all as that not a man of lhmn should have etcaped, \x-hir'li could only have born
by getting in between them and their lmnts: but this presence of mind was
\rsnling to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great while

"'e need net: doubt. but: that. the governor, and the man with him, 5m] d
with this sight, ran immediately, and raised their fellows, giving them flu
account of the imminent dzn);;ei' they were all in, and they again as readil'ir took
the. alarm ; bill. it. was imp - ble to P made them to st 3' close within where they
were, but that they must. all .run out to see how thii .2. stand.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and tlmy had nppm'lnnity
enough, for: some lmurs, ('0 View them hf the light of thr 'e fires the}: had ninth:
at some dittnncc from one another. "'hat they were doing they know not, and
what to do thmmclros they knew not; for, firm, the enemy were too many; and,secondly, tlnsy (lid nnl. keep lcgvdhm', but were divided into several parriex, and
were on shore in several places.

The. Spaniards were in no small cunsternntinn n}. this sigl:l.; and as they
l'nanql that the feluws ran sl-r: fgling all over llm Show, "my made in) doubt
hall, lilnl. or last, some of them would. chop in upon their habitat-ha, or upon
wine olhcr place, when: they would see the tokens of inhabit ., and their
were in great perplox' also I'm' fmr ol' l-hnir (luck of goals, all h would hurl:
been little less than shining l-hcm, if they sliauld have been deshnycd. So (110
IE lining they resolved upon, was lo Liespaitch three men arrav before it was light,
na; why, two Spnliim'lls and one Englishman, to drive all the gnaln away in lla-
grcat valley where the care was, and, il' mod were, to Ilrivu hum intq the re -
can: itself. _

Could they have seen 2hr, savages altogether in one body, and a: a dismncc
from their canoes, they resolved, if there. had hann a hnnr (ad or 1h in, to have
attacked them; hut. that cc'ald not he uhl-ainud, ll>>: them \v . 1-. some of lhl' 21 two
mi1 Is oil from the ollim', and, as it appeared. afterwards, were of two d
naiions.

After having; mused :7. grant while on the cmn'sn they should Mike, and exc
llmmsclves in considering the present circumslmmcs, Lil-"y remix-ml nL last, while
ii.- wns dark, to send the old mirage (liridm ' father) out as a spy to learn if
pussihle, something concerning them, as what. they caniu fur, and r. at. they
intend t0 do, and (he like. The old man tmdcrluul: it without hesnaiinn, and
Eli-il'lping himself quite naked, as ntosl, or the savages wow army he went. Allcl'
he had been gone. an ltnnr or two . brings word that ho. land been among l
undiscovered, that he found they were two parties, and of two 15 'al nar
who had war with one axzuther, and had had a. great. haulc in their own connl. _,
and that both aides, having had several prisonem taken in the fight, they were, by
mam chance, landed on the same island for the devouring their prisomn's, and
making; meri- ; lint. their cmnir '0 by chance in the same place had spuiled all
their mirih--llml they new in a great. rage at one another, and mm: 50 near, that
he believed they would fight again as soon ns daylight began to appear; but ha
(lid not. perceive that they had {my notion of any bIJLly'.' 'ing on tho island huf-
thenlsehes. He had hardly mail.) an and of telling the story, when they could
perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were engaged
in a bloody fight.

Frid s father used all the arguments ho could to persuade on: people to lie
clasp, and not to be sewn: he told them their safety cons ml in it, and that thev
l'Jl/Il nothing m (h) but. {/3 lie still, all-(l lhc savages would lull 0m: another to lh
ham. "Ml the rest would go away; and ilwns to a tilde. J-hd. it. was im-
possible to' prevail, especially upon the Englishman--their curiosity was so impot'
Innate nprxn their prudentials, that they must run out and sue the battle:
hownvnr, {hey used some caution, namely, they did not go openly just lay their
dwelling, 'lJut went farther into the "'00ng and placed thenmelves to advantage,
where they might securely see them manage the light, and, as they thought,not be seen hv them; but it. seems the savages (llll son them, as we shall find
hereafter.

The battle was \-er\- fierce, and, if I might believe the Englishmen, one oi
them said he could perceive that some of them were men of gj'mi. bravery, of
invincible sph'its, mid grant. policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they said,
held tno hours, before they could guess which put); would be beaten , but then
rim: pm'ty which wns ncnmst on)- pmplc's hnhimtion began to appear would-5.9, and
after sunm time more, name of them begun to fly; and this put mu" men again
into :1 great vonsim'nation, lest any of those that. fled should run into the grow:
lucforg: their dwelling for shelter, and Lhcmhy involuntarily discover Lhc phi-e,
and that, by conannonce, the pursuens should do the like in search (vl' them.
Upun this tlwy resolved, that they would stand armed within the wall, and "hu-
cvcr came into the grove, Lhny should sally out over the wall and kill them, so

that, il' limsihlc, not: one lam-hl mtnrn tr: give zm account of it. They culcrrll
aim), that it should he (lune with their swords, or h_ knocking them down with
the stock of the musket, and not by shuuiing them, for fear of raising an alm'm by
the noise.

A"): they expected, it fell cut: three of the route-'1 army fled for life, :1:
crossing the creek, ran cliromly into the place, not. in the least, knmving whilhm
they went, but running as into :1 thick wouLl for sheltex. The scout they kept to
look abroad gave notice of this within, with this addition, (0 (my: men's great.
antisl'aution, namely, that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which
W 'they Were gone. Upon leis,1lic Spaniard governor, a man of llulmlnily'
would not suffer them to kill the fugitives; but sending three men out by the
mp 09 the hill, ordered them in go round and come. in behind them, unwise, and
take them prisoners: which \vzt's clone. The residue of the conquered pcoyle '
fled to their canoes and got MT m sea ; the victors retired, and made no pursuit,) ' ,. . U ' .
7"" 9m. "' . '.'. W

.VVADVEA'TURES 0F 'ROBXNSON CRUfiU

 

   

or very little, but, drawing themselves into a body lag-ether, gave two great
ming shouts, which {110- fiuppus'eil 17cm by way of triumph, and so the
{15 filfllfidfi and the 55mm rlsx" about three o'clock in tlze nfim'mxm, they also
marched to their ' mes. And films the Spaniards land 1: ir island again free
:0 thumsu es, their fight was over, and they saw no savages for several years
after. ~

After they war>>: all gone, the Spn "ERIE cnmn unt of their (lcn, nncl, viewing
the field of ha:t1e,th_cy fonm'l about tsvo-and--ihirty dead men upon the spot; some

 
  

 
 

   

 

 

 

were killed with grenj: long mrows,"severul (ll which were found sticking in their
bodies, but most of them were killed with great. rmmlcn swords, sixteen or screw
teen Of which they found. in the fialrl of battle, and 3:4 many bows, with n great
many arrows. These swords were great- unwieltlljr thin and. they must he very
Strong men that user] them; most of those men that were killed with them had
their heads mashed to piaces, :us we may say, or, as We call it in English, their

 

 

   
    

-Ww--'v

. "F42;

V-4~._.__.,._..fi__..._~

agar.>>--bruins knocked out, and several of their arms and legs broken; so that it was
evident they fight. with inoxpressible rage and fury. They found not: one wounded
man that. was not stone dead; for either they stay by their enemy till they have
quite killed them, or they carry all the wounded men, that are not quite deed,
away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the sight had
filled them with horror, and the consequence appeared terrible to the last; degree,
especially lxpon supposing that some time or other they should fall into the hands
of those creatures, who would not: only kill them as enemies, lint kill them for food,
as we kill our cattle. And they promised to me, that- the t honghts of being eaten
up likeheet' or mutton, though it was supposed it was not to he till they "are
dead, had something in it so horrible, that it nnusmtcd their very stomachs, made
them sick when they thought of it, and filled their minds with unusual terror, that
they were not themselves for some weeks after.

This, as I said, tanned oven the three English hrutcs I have been speaking
of, and, for n gmnt while after, they-were very tractable, and went about the
common hushiess ol' the whole society well enough--planted, sowed, reaped;
and began to be all naturalised to the country; but sometime after this, they l'ell
all into such simple measures. again as hmughtthem into a. great deal of trouble.

'l'hey had taken three prisoners, as 1 hot! observed; and those thine being
lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught, them to work
for them: and as slaves they did well enough; but they did not take their

ieusures with them as .I did by my man Friday, namely, to begin with them upon
the principle of having sored their lives, and then instructed them in the rational
principles of life, much loses 01' religion, civilising and reducing them by kind
usatge'anri affectionate nrguings; but as they gave them their food every day, so
they gave them their work too, nndhepttheni ['ully employed in drudgery enough :
but they failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist them and fight for
them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to me am the very flesh upon my
bones.

But- to come to the family part; being all now good friends (for common
danger, as I said nbove, had eifoct-nnllyrcconciled them), they began to consider
their general circumstances; and the first thing that came under their con-
sideratiou was, whether, seeing the snsnges particularly haunted that ,side of the
island, and that: (here were more remote and retired parts of it equally adopted to
their way of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
remove their habitation, and plant it in some more proper place for their snfety,
and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was conceived that the}.r should not remove
their habitation, because that, some time or other, they thought they might; hear
from their governor again, meaning me; and if I ahould send any one to seek
them, I would be sure to direct them on thnt side, where, if they should find the
place demolished, they would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were
gone, and so our supply would go away too.
 

Baths to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove them info the valley
where my care. was, where the land was ((5 proper to both, and where indeed there
was loud enough; however, .upon second thoughts, they altered one part of that
resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their cattle (hither, and plant
pnrt ot' their corn there; and so, 1' F one part was destroyed, the other might be
saved: and one piece of prudence they used, which it was very well they did,
nwnely, that they never trusted these three nudges which they had taken prisoners
with knowing any thing of the plantation the}.r had made in the valley, or of any
cattle they had there, much less of the cave there, which they kept in case (if
neceSSity as a safe retreat; mnil thither they carried also the two hzu'rels of powder
which I had left them at my coming away.

But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet the}.r agreed,
that as I had carefully covered it fi " with a wall 01' fortification, and than with
a grove of trees, so, seeing their snl'et, consisted entirely in their being concealed,
of which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal
the place jet more effectually than before: 10 this purpose as I had planted trees
(or rather thrust in stakes which in time-all grew to he trees) for some good
distancehel'ore the entrance into my apartment, they went on in the some manner,
and fillcxl up the rest of that whole space of ground from the. trees I had set
quiLe down to Ihe side-of the creek, where, as I said, I landed my flonrs, and
even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as lenvmg any place
to land, or any sign that there had been on}" lending (herenhout. These strikes
also being of a. wood very forward. to grow, as I had noted formerly, they rook
care to have generally vol-3' much larger and taller than those which I had
planted, and placed them so very thick and close, that when they hurl been three
or four yours grown, there was no piercing with the eye. any considerable rm}.-
into the plantation. As for that part which I had planted, the trees were
grown as thick us a. man's thigh; and. among them they placed so many other
short ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it skied like a- palisudo :1 quarter of a
mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it but with a little army lo
cut it all down; for a little dog could hardly get Between the trees, they stood
so close.

But; this was not all: for they did the same by all the ground to the rigl-L
hand, and to the left, and round even to the top of the hill, leaving: no way, not
so much as for themselves to come out but. by the ladder plnmd up to the side of
the hill, and then lifted up and placed again from the first stage up to the top:
which ladder, when it was taken down, nothing but what had wings or witehcmlh
to assist it cauld come at them.

This was excellently well contrived, nor was it less than what they afterwards
found occasion for: which serve to convince me, that us human prudence has
authority of Providence to justify it, so it has, (louliilcss, the direction of Provi-
dent/d to set it to work, and, would we listen carefully to the voice of it, I am
i'rllhr persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which our lives are now
by our own negligence subjected to 5 but this hy the way.

322!
I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect retirement,
and had no more. visits from the savaged 5 they had indeed an alarm given them
one morning, which put: them in 9. great consternation; for one of the Spaniards
being out early one mornng on the west side, or rather end, of the ialaud--
which by the way, n-zvs that end whom 1 never went, for fear of being discovered
---they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes with Indians just couihig
on shore.

They made the heat of their way home in him-y enough, and giving the ahmn
to their comrades, they kept close all that day and the next, going out only at
night to make ohsermta'ons; but they had the good luck to be mistaken, for
wherever the savage; went, they didnot land at that time on the island, but-
pnrsned some other design.

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen, one of which,
a most- turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one. of the three slaves which I
mentioned they had taken, because the fellow hm] not done something right
which he bade him do, and seemed a little nntractablo in his showing him,
drew a hatchet out of a fi'ogbelt in 'which he bore i: by his side, and fell upon
him, the poor smmgo1 not to correct him, but to kill him. Onc'of the Spaniards
who was by, seeing him give the fellow SL barbarous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought
he had cut the poor creature's arm 011', ran to him, and, animating him not to
murder the poor man, clapped in between him and the savage to prevent the
mischief.

Tho fellow being enraged the more at this struck at the Spaniard with his
hatchet, and were he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which
the Spaniard. perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel which he hzul in his
hand (for they were working in the field ahout the corn--land) knockcd the hmie
down; another of the Englisluncn running at the same time to help his comrade,
knocked the Spaniard down, and then two Spaniards mom came to help their
man, and a third Euglishn'mu .i'eil upon them. They had none. of them any the
arms or tiny other Weapons but hatchets and other tools, except the third English-
man: he had one of my old rusty entlnsses, with which he made at the. last
Spaniards, and wmmdcd them both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar,
and more help coming in, they took the three Englishman prisoneis. The next
question was, what should he done with them? They had been so often mutinons,
and were so furious, so desperate, and so idle \rithnl, that they knew not what
caurse to take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest degree, and
valued not what hurt they did any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
with them.

'1' he Spaniard, who was governor, told them, in so many words, that if they
had been his own countrymen he would have. hanged them all--for nil lows
and all governors were to preserve society, and those who were dangerous in the
socicty ought to be expelled out of it; but as they were Englishmen, and that.
it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their

324
 

preservation and deliverance, lm would we them will) all possible lenity', and
would leave them to the juegme-ut. of thu other No Englishmen, who won; their
cmmtrymcn.

One of the two lionmt Eugli "men than smml up, and said they (lesiml it.
might, not be left to them: "For, . 31.5 he, "' l mu sure we ought to smlencu them
to (he gfillowsf' and with that. gin>>: an account haw Will Alkius, one of tin:
dime, had pwpused to have all the five Englishmen join together, and murder all
the Spaniards when they were in their bleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins: "l-Imv'!
Seignor Atkins," says he, " will you niiu'cler us all"! What have you to say to

that. '9" That hardened \rillnin was so far from denying it= that he said it was true
57ml. G--(l Ll--n him, tl would. do it still before they had clone with <<hum,
" Well, but Seignox' Adm>>, said the Spaniard, "' wlmt ham: we done 1." you that
you will kill us? And what would you get by killing 115'! And wlmc must we (in
to prevent you killing us'! Must we. kill you, or will you kill us? "'lnfi will you
PM 115 to the necessity of this, Seignor Atkins l" asks the Spaniard, very calmly
and smiling.

Scignor Atkins was in such a rage at the Spmiim'tl's making It jest of it; that
had he not been ludrl by three. men, and witlml lmql na weapons with him, in mm

thought he Would have atlcmprerl to have killed the szmim'cl in the middle of all
the company. -
 
   

l

 

 

 

ADVENTURES or ROBINSON cnusor.
____________.__.____._------------------~

This linirbreinecl carriage obliged them to consider seriously what. was to hr)
done. The tonnglixhuxen, and the Spaniard who ssved the poor mirage, were
of opinion that they should hang one of the three for an example to the root; and
that particularly it. should be he that had twice attempted to commit; murder with
his hatchet; and indeed, there Was some reason to believe he had done it, for the
poor savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound he haul received,
that it was thought; he could not live. _

But the governor Spaniard still said, 110,1'twa3 mt Englislunau that had sun-d
all their lives, and he would never consent to put an Englishman to death
though he had murdered half of them--nay, he said, if he haul. been killed
himself by an Englishman, and had time left. to speak, it should he that. they
should pardon him.

'I'ln's was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that them was no
gaiuxuying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail where they are so
earnestly praised, so they all come into it ; but then it was to he considered what
should be done to keep them from the mischief they designed, for all agreed,
governor and all, that memos were to he used for preserving the society from
auger. After a. long debate, it was agreed, first, that, they should he disnrmed,
and not. permitted to have either a gun, or powder, or shot, or s ord, or any
weapon, and should be turned out of the society and left to live where they
would, and how they could, by themselves; but. that uoncef' the rest, either,
Spaniards or English, should converse with them, speak with them, or have any
thing to do with then) ; that. they should be forbid to come within a ce ,nin distance
of the place where the rest dwelt; and that if they offered to commit any disorder,
so as to spoil, hum, hill, or destroy any 'ei'the corn, plantings, buildings fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, that they should die without- uierey, and would
shoot them wherever they could find them.

The governor, n man of great hunmuity, musing upon the. sentence, considered
a little uyou it, and turning to the. two honest Englielnuen, said, "Hold, you
inns: reflect that; it will be long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own,
and they must not. starve--we must therefore allow them provisions." So he. caused
to he added, that the}r should have a proportion of corn given them to hut them
eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise
some of their own; that they should have six milch-goats, four he~goats, and six
kids, given them, as well for present; subsistence as for a store; and that they
ahould have tools given them for their work in the field--such as six lmtchets, un
axe, a saw, and the like; but. they should have none of these tools or provisions
unless they would swear solemnly that. they would not hurt 0): injure any of the
Spaniards with them, or their fellow Englishmen.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shill: for then:--
selves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither contented to go mvuy
or to stay: but as there was no remedy, they went pretending to go and choose it
place whine they should settle themselves, to plant and live by themselves; and
some provisions were given them, but no weapons.

326
 

. . %
About, four or five days after they came flgflul for some viotusls, and gave the " -

governor an account where they had pito'nod their tents, and marked themselves
out an habitation or plantation; it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the
ramotest part of the island, north-cast, much about the place where I providentinlly
landed in my first. voyage when I was driven out to 5.0a, the Lord alone knows
rah er, in my foolish attempt to surmnnd the island.

Herc they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in a
manner lika my first habitation, being close under the side of a hill, having some
trees growing already to the three sides of it, so that by planting others it would
be very easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly searched for. Thev desired
some dry goat-skins for beds and covering, which were given them; ahd upon
their giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any of thci r
plantations, they gave them hatcliets, and what other tools they could spare; some
pens, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a word, any thing they wanmd but arms
and mnnmnil-ion. '

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had got in their
first harvest, though the qnantity was but small, the parcel of land thoy had
planted being but little; for, indeed, having all their plantation to form the)' bad
a great deal of work upon their hands; and when they came. to make broads, and
pots, and such things, they were quite out of their element and could make nothing
of it; and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth, they
could not keep their grain dry and it was in great danger of spoiling : and this
humbled thorn inucl : so the)." wine and begged the Spaniards to help them, which
the; very readily (lid, and in four days worked a. gmat hole in the side of the hill
for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but.
it was buta poor place at best compared to mine, and especially as mine. was
then ; for the Spaniards hall greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments
in in

About. three quart/cm of :1. year after this separation, as new frolic tool: these
mguas, which, wgcther with the former villany they had committed, [wright
mischief enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of the wholo colony.
The three new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they
led, and that Without hope of bettering their circumstances; and a whim took
them, that they would make a voyage to the continent from whence the. savages
(who, and would try if they could not scrim upon some prisoners among the
natives them, and bring them home, so as to make them do the laborious part of
the. work for them.

The project was no!- so preposterous if they had gone no farther; but they did
nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in the design, or mischief
in the event; and if I may give my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from
Heaven--Jon if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how
shall we reconcilo the events of things with divine justice 'a' It was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought. them to the
state they were in; and as they showed no: the least remorse for the crime, but

327
1:
[i
i"
'
9':
K'

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON GBUSOE.

 

added new villanies to it, such as particularly that piece of monstrous cruelty of
wounding a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps could not, mxdemtand to
do what he was directed, and to wound him in such in manner as, no question,
made him a. <<nipple all his lilo, and in :1 place where no surgeon or medicine could
ho hall for his cure; and, what was still worse, the murderous intent--<<or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to he sure if. was--as was
afterwards the formed design they all laid to murder the Spaniards in cold blood,
and in their sleep. . ,

But I lean? observing, and return to the story. The three fellows came down
to the Spaniards ono morning, and, in very humble terms, desired to be admitted
to speak with them: the Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which
was this, that they were tired of living in the manner they did, that. they were
not handy enough to make tho necessaries they wanted, nnd that having no help,
they found they should be starved; but if the Spaniawls would giro them leave
to take one of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and
ammunition proportioned for their dofonoe, they would go over to the main, and
seek their fortmie, and so doliver them from the trouble of supplying them with
any other provisions;

The Spaniards wei'a glad enough to he rid of them, but yet very honestly
represented to them the certain destruction they were running into; told them
they had suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they could, without any
spirit of prophecy, tell them, that. they would he starved or murdered, and hnrlo
them consider of it. _

The mom .roplied uudociously, they should he starred if they staid here, for
thoy could not; work, nnd would not work, and they could but ho starved abroad :
and, if they were murdered, there was on end of thorn, thep had no wives or
children to cry after them, and, in short, insisted importunately upon their
demand, declaring that they would go, whether they would give them any arms
or no. ' '

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that, if they were resolved to go,
they should not go like naketl men, and be in no condition to defend themselves;
and that, though they could ill spare their fire-urnis, having not enough for them-
selves, yet they would let them have two mnskets, a pistol, and a cutloss, and each
man a hatchet, which the,>>r thought suilioiont for them.

In o word, they accepted the offer ; and, having baked them brood enough to
serve them it month, and given them an much goat's flesh us they could out while
it was sweet, and n grant basket full of dried grapes, a. pot, full of fresh water, and
a young kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a. canoe for a. voyage over the' son,
whore it. was at least forty miles broad. '

The boat. was, indeed, a. large one, and would have very well carried fifteen
or twenty maxi, and, therefore, was rather too big for them to manogo; but,
as they had a fair breeze, and the flood-tide with them, they did well enough,
They had made a most, of a long pole, and a soil of four largo gent-skins dried,
which they had sewed or laced together, and away thoy went merrily enough: the

828

 

 

 
  

,r.'

-,.i

is" ' 5>>

Via-T

 

IL .

PS33

5>>:

21}

_.._,__I 23
 

 

  
 

Spaniards called after them, "Bo". venjo," and no man ever thought of seeing
them any more.

'l'he Spaniards would often s-w to one another, and the two honest Englishman j:
who remainprl behind, how quicfly and cmufortably Lhoy livml now Em. . Unrea- fl,
tur'nnlcm. fellows were gune; 3.1 lb: their ever mmin

 

 

  

x'lni's' absence, o'ne 0f the Englishmen bring abroad upon his Naming work, . ('03
three sfmnga men coming towards him at a distance, um nl'tlicln with guns upun
their shimmers.

Away runs the Englishman: us if he was lacwicchezl, anal cam-c, friglnerl and

. .1

.~ n. .=uC/=..,;,...___'_

   
 

 

.I

ll ._
.2: l,
I; L

.

l-
\L

l' '

lv' :-
ll

l

.,

I .

PS514 amazed, l.>> the. govern 1' Spnnizu'r'l, and tells him tlxry were. all undone, for more

. _ q r

l were: strangers landed upon the :slsmtl, he could not tell who. The bpaman'cl,

J .

l,1 pausing a while, says to lulu, " How do you mean, you cannot tell who ? 'l'lzey ~.
' nrs savages to be sm'o.."--" No, no," saw. the Englishman, they are men in clothes i'

I I - - ' w - o
Cl ) with urms."----"' N m}, then." says the Spaniard, " why am: you concerneu'! If they ) L5
:34 are not savages, thev must be friends: for there is no Christian nation upon earth l

.6 but will do us good rather than harm."
"'hilc they were debating; thus, cninc the three Englishmen, and, standing
Without. tho. wood which was new planted, hulluocd to them; they pr; .nLl-f; knew
their voices, and so all the wonder ui' that: kind ceased. Tint now the admin-Minn
was turned upon. another question, namely, what could he the matter, and what-
nnuln them come. back again.

It was not long lmfore the}: hrought the men in : and, inquiring when: they
had been, and what the]; 113.lech doing, they gave them a. full account of their
voyage in :v, few words, namely, that they mache'l tho land in two days, or
something less, hut, finding the jmuple nlmmed at. their coming, and preparing
with hows and arrows to fight; them, they (lnrst not. so on shore, but sailed on
1.0 the nonhwnrd six or seven hours, till they cmne :0 a. great: opening, by
which thev perceivml that the land they saw from our island was not the main,
but. an islaxu'l--thzzt, entering that opening of the sen, they saw another islzmd or.
the ' t imnll nortl and several more west- and, heing resolved in land some-
whci 931"" m-m' to one of the islands which lay wase, and went boldly on
shore--that ilmv found the people very courteous and friendly to them, and they
gave them severnl roots, and some drmzi z'ish, and appeared very sociable: and
the wouwn, as well as the men, were ver).r .l'orw'ani to supyly :hem with any thing
they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a. great way upon their
heads.

They continued horn for four d9.) 5, and inquired, as well as they could, of them
lay sig , what. nations were this way, and that way; and were told ol'srzvm'nl fierce
and terrible people, that lived almost er .. way, who, as they made known by
signs to them, used to em: men; but, as for themselves, they said that they never
ufie men or women, except- only such as they tool: in' the wars; and then they
owned timi- they made a. great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when the}; had 3 Feast of that; kind, and they told
them two moons my, pointing to the moon, and then to two lingeni; and that:
their great king haul two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war,
and they were. f .ding them to make them {zit- for the next feast. The English~
men seemed mighty desirous to see those prisoners; but the others mistaking
them, thought the}r ware desirous to ham: some of' them to carry away for their
own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to tho setting of the sun, and.
then to the rising; which wns to signify, that the next morning at Sim-rising, they
would bring some for them: and accordingly, the next mor: 1;; they brought
down five women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry
with them on their voyagn, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down
to a sea--port town to mutual a ship.

A5 brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at. home, their owniachs turned
n: this sight, and flicy did not know what to do; to refuse the prisoners, would
have been the highest; affront to the savage gentry that ollTered them, and who:
to do with than: they knew not; however, upon some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought them one. of
their hate-hots, an old hey, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which, thuug'u
they did not understand, theyseemed extremely pleased with; and then, tying
the poor creatm'es' hands behind them, they (the people) dragged the prisoners
imn the boat for our men,

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them, or else
they that gave them this noble present would certainly have expected that they
should have gone to work with them, have killed (we or three of them the next
morning, and per-ha .=. have invited the donors to dinner.

But having taken their learn, with all the-resPcc: and thanks that. could wQ-ll
pass between people, where, on either side, they understood nol. one. word tl =y
could say, the}.r pal: off with their boat, and came back unrardg the first island,
where, when they arrived, th set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being
too many of them for their ocmsion.

Ia tlrir voyage they; endeavoured to have some communication with their
prisoners, but it was impossible to make them understand anything; nothing
they couldsay to them, or give them, 01' do for them, haiwas looked upon as
going about to murder them ; they first of all unbound them, but the 1mm-
ereatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if they had just. felt the knife
at their throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on purpose
to be lcillerl. '

If they gore ihem nnythin 0 eat, it was the same thing then the)' con-
eluded it. was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill ;
if they looked at. one 01" them ihore portion} the party presentl concluded
it was to see. whether he or she was fattest and fittest to kill first; 111' after they
had brought them quite over, and began to use them kindly, and treat them well,
sti ll they expected eveijy dag.- to make a dinner or supper for 1h r new masters.

"'hen the (limo. wanderers had given (his unaccountable history or journal of
their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their new l'zunily was '3 And being
told that. they had bmughr (hour on shore, and put them into one of their hats,
and were come to beg E01111! vie-trials for them, they (rho. Spaniards) mid the two
nth Englishmen, that is (o Evy: ll":- whole- culony, resolved to go all down to the
place and see them-<<and did so and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there- they sat. all bound; for when they had
brought them on shore they bomtd their hands, that they might. not 1.1: m the huzat
and make their escalm--thm'r, 1 my, they 534'}, all of them stark n; l. 1' "'54,
there were three men, lusty, come 3' fellows,'viell shaped, straight and ' lhnlw,
about. thirty or thirty--five years: of age; and five women, whereof two i It be
ll'our fliirt' m for ', two more not above twenty-for" m' twenty-five, and the llllh,
1L tall comely in en, about 3' 'taen orseventeon. The women were welhl'uvonrezl,
agreeable perm ., both in shape and feature , only tawny; and two of then}, had
they been perfect whi would have passed for handsome women even in London
ilse having very pleasant, agreeable eounlenancefl, and oi a very mach: -
behaviour, esiieeinllywhon they came afterwards to be clullut-tl and dressed,
they called it, though that. dress was very indilferent, it must in: mnllrsscd: of
which hereafter.
ADV l;

 

The sight, you may he sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards, who
were (to give them a just. chamelei') men of tho best behaviour, of the most
calm, sedate tempers; and perfect good humour, that ever I met with; in par-
ticuhu' of {he most modesty, as will presently appear--1 say the sight. was very
uncouth, to sec three naked men: and five naked women, all together bound,
and in themes: miserable cirCLunstnncos that human nature could he supposed
in he, nmnely, to hzzoxpccting every moment to he dragged out, and have their
brains knocked out, and then to be eaten my like a fluted call' that is killed for a
dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Fri-Ila "s father, to go in
and see first if he knew any of them, and thou il' he tunlewmrl any of their
speech. As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at them, but knew
none of them, neither conldnny of them understand a word he said, or a Sign he
could make, cxmpt one of the women.

However, thin was mimgh to answer the end, which was to satisfy them that.
the men into whose hands they were fallen were Christians, that. they abhor-rod
the eating of men or women, and that they might be sure they would not he. killed.
As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a jov and by such
<<Mm-51rd and renewal Ways, n5 is hard to describe, for it seems (hey were ofscveral .
nations.

The woman who was. their inteipmter was bid, in the next. plnce, to ask them
if they were willing to he servants, and to work for the. men who had hmnght-
them away to save. their lives? at which they fell a dancing; and presently one
fell (0 taking up this, and another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their
shoulders, to intimate that the {ere willing to work.

The governor, who found that the having women among them would presently
he attendml with some inconveniency, and might seen on some shrill>>, and perhaps
blood, asked the three man what they intended to do with these woman, and how
they intended to use them, whether as servants or (IS women '1 One of the
Englishmen mswcrcd very boldly and mainly, that they would. use them as both.
To which the governor said, " I am not going to restrain you from it; you amyom'
own masters as to that; but this I think is but just.) for avoiding disorders and
quarrels among you, and I desire. it of you for that reason only, namely, let. you
will all engage, that if any of you lake any of them women as a woman, or a wife,
ho shall tnke but one; and that, honing taken one, none else shall touch her: for,
though we cannot nmrry any of yon, yet it is but r stumble, that while you stay
here, the women any of you takes should he moinmined bytlze mum that 1:1sz her,
and should he hix'wil'c: I mean," says he, "while he continues here; and l-liuf-
nonu elise should have anything 1.0 do nith her." All this appeared so just, {hut
every one agreed to it without any difficult '.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniard>> if they dosi-{urd Lo lnkc any of them '3
Bm'. every oue'mirwrred, No: some of : mm said they had wires in Spain ; and
Lho. OHIBN did not like women that were not Christians: and All together declared
that they would not muah one of them ; which was an instance of such virtue asI have not met with in all my travels. 0n the other hand, to be short, the five
Englishmen tool: them every one a wife--that is to my, a temporary wife; and so
they set up a new form of living 5 for the Spaniards and- Friday's lather lived in
my old habitation, which they hud enlarged within; the three servants, which
ll .v had when in the late battle of the: savages, lived with them ; and thesu
cur ed on the. main part of the colony, supplying all the rest. with food, and
assisting them in any thing as they conltl, or as they found necessity required.
But the wonder of this si/er was, how five such rcfi'aclory, ill-matched fellows,
should agree about these women, and that. law) of them should not pitch upon the.
same woman, especially seeing two or three of them warm without comparison,
more agreeable than the other i but they took :I ")l)l.l \\. ' enowh to prove f
quarclling among themselves; for they set. the five women by lhmnsch as in mm
of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew lots among them who
should choose first.

He that drew ('0 choose first, went away by himself to the hut where the pour
naked creatures were, and fetched mil. her he Chose; and it was worth 0559 ring,
that he 1.2199. chest: first. took her that was reckoned the lwmeliesl and the oldest
of the five, which mnrlc mirth enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards
laughed at it: but the fellow considered better than any of then), that it was
application and business that they were to expert. assistance in as much as any
thing>>,r else; and 5th proved the but "'lfc in the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves in a row this, and fetched out one by
one, the (arrows of their condition returned upon them again, and they firmly
believed that, thny were now going to he devoured : accordingly. \\ hen the E

and hung about her, and tool: their leave of he}: with such agoninu, nnd : c:
nfi'acl-iuu, as would lmvc grieved the hardest heart. in the world 3 nor was it pus--
aihlc for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not 10 lm imnmrlintcly
 

 

nnudered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's father, who instantly let them
know, that the five men who had fetched them out one. by one, had chOSeu them
for their wives. .

"men Lhcy had define this and the fright the women were in was 9, Jill-lo over,
the men went to work, and film Spaniards came and helped them : and in a l'ew
hours-they had built them every one a new lint 01' (em for their lodging apart ,
for these lhcy had already were crowded with their tools, household smfi, and
provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest. off, mid the two honest
ones nearer, but bath on the north shore of the island, so that they continued
separate as before: and thus my island was peopled in three places, and, :15 I
might say, three towns were. begun (a be planted.

And how it is veryr well worth observing, that. as it oficn happens in the world
(what. the wise ends of Gail's pmvidcncc am in such 9, disposition of things, I
cannot say), the two honest. follows had the two worst wives 3 and lhe three
rcprobams, that were suzu'ce worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither
seemed born (0 (lo themselves gnarl, nor any one else, had three. clover, rlilligcnt,
(artful, and ingenious' wires--nut that the two first were ill wives us to their
tamper orhnmnuz', for all the. five we)": most willing, quick, passnc, and subjected
creatures, rather like slaves lhan wives ; but my meaning is, they were not nlihe
capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must. make, to the honour of a (lilligcnt application on
the one hand, and to the disgrace: of :1 slutlif'ul, negligent, idle temper on the other,
that when i came to the place, and viewed the several improvements, planning,
and management of the several little colonies, the two men had so far oulgom:
the three, that there was no comparison 3. they had indeed both of them as much
ground laid our for earn as ting}; wanicd, and the reason was, because, according

' w my rule, nature dictated that it. was to nu plu'pose to sow more corn :hsn they

wanted ; but the dijference of the cultivation, of the plzuieing, of the fences, and
indeed every thing else was easy to he Susan at first. view.

The two men haul innumerable young treas planted about their huts, that when
you came :0 the place, nothing WA; to be seen but a wood; and thaugh the}; had
their plantation twice demolished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the
enemy, as shall he shown in its plane, yet they had restored. all again, and every
thing was flourishing and thriving about them--they had grapes plank/3. in order
managed like nvineynrll, though they had themselves never seen (my thing of
that. kind: and by their good ordering their vines, their grapes were as good zgain
are any of the others. They had also formed themselves a rclrcnt in the thickest
par: of tho. woodsi, where, though Lhcrc was nal. a. natural cave, :us _[ lmd l'nnml,
yet. they made one with incessant labour of their hands, and where, when the
misclzinfwhich followed happened, they; secured their wives and children, so as
they could never be found; they having, by sticking innumerable stakes and
poles of the wood, which as I said, grew so easily, made ngrm-e impnssable,cxcept
in one place, where they climbed up to get. over the outside part, and then went
by ways 01' their own leaving.

 

n

'7:-::i\ ~ '

7w
 

:55 to the threc regrubatcs, as I just! call them, though they were. mnrli
ciunscrl liy their new settlement, mmpm'ml to what they were before, ml were
not so quarrelsomc, having not the mo. Opportunity, )3 one ol'ilm o'ci i n awr-
panions 02's. proflig e mind 11' 'cr lrl'r them, and that. was their i-rllmi. It is
true, they planted corn, and made l'nncnx; lmE Solo 2':: \rm-rla Marv in". better
ver'ieil than in them--"l worn: by the vineyard of the slotlifiil, and it was
overgrown with thorns j," for when the szmiarrls mum to w their crop, "10y
could not see it in some places for woods ; the hedge had several gaps in in whom
iht: wild gems had gotten in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here. mnl :liow a
dead hush was crm'nmoil in to stop than out for the present, lnil. it was only
shutting the stable-floor after the steed was stolen; \'iln *, n'licn :lwy looked (in
the colony of the other two, there was the very fact: 0 niclnsu'y and success upon
nli they (lid; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or n. 92:31.: in :1in of
their In: is; anal they (in the other hand, \' ' cl Solomon's won]: in nnm'm-r
plnm: " Elie dilligent hauitl innketh rich ;" for evurytliin'g {rewand ilirivml,:iml
they lia-Ll plenty \vii'liin anti without; they haul more tame cattle than the when,
mare utensils and necessaries wiiliin doors, and you more plcnsnn'. mnl diversion
too.

I: is true, the wives of the (limo. were very handy and cleanly within (lo-rim;
and having learntxl the English ways of droning; and cooking from out: of the
other Englishmen, who as 1 mid, Wu a cook's mat: on board the hip, they dresmd
tlicir husband's victuals very niccl ---~whcreas., the other could not be brought in
understand it; but when the husband, who, as I said, had been cnnli's unto, did
it himself; but. as for the husbands of the tines wives, they loimrml "lion etched
tut. es' eggs, and caught. fish and l'ni ' ; in a word. anything but labour, nnr'l
they fared accordingly. The dilligent lived. well and comfortabl and the slatlil'ul
lived hard and beg arly; and so, I believe, generally sPealiing, it is all over
the world. .

But now I come to a scene. different from all that had happened he . , either
to them or me; and the origin of the story" was this:

Earl? one morning there came on Show live. or six canoes of Indians, or
savages, calltliem which you ple- ; and t: re is no room to doubt that the
came upon the olrl errand of feeding upon their slaves: but that part was now so
fmnilinr to tlm Spaniards, and to our men too, that they dial not concem them-
selves nlmnt it :15 I did _: but having been made sensible, by iii - experience, that
their only busincs was to lie concealed, and that, if they were not soon by any of
the savages, they would go off again quietly when their busines; \ a (lone,
having as yet, not the lens: notion of their living any inlmliimnts in the is Ind--I
say, having been made sensible of tlii: they had nothing in (in but to give notice
to all the three plnntations to keep v. .liin doom, and not to show themselves: only
placing; a scout in a proper place, to give. notice when the boats went 0?? m sea
again.

This watt, without doubt, v right; but a. (lisnster spoiled all these measures,
and made it known among the ages, that there were inhabitants their, which

7555'>>
was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with
the savages were gone oil", the Spaniixrds pooped abroad again, and some of them
had the curiosity to go to the place where they had boon, to see what they had
been doinfv. Here, to their great surprise, they found three savngos left behind,
and lying fast asleep upon the ground; it was supposed that they had either been
so gorgod with their inhuman i'etwt, that, like beasts, they were asleep, and would
not stir when the others want, or they were wandered into the woods, and did not
come buck in time to be taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a loss
what to do; the Spaniard governor, us it happened, was with them, and his advice
was asked, but he professed ho know notwhat to do: us for slows, they had
enmigh already; and us to killing them they were none of them inclined to that.
The Spaniard governor told me they could not think of shedding innocmlt blood:
for as to them, the poor creatures had dono no wrong, invaded none of their
property, and they; thought they had no just quarrel against them to take awn-y
their lives.

And here I must, in justice to these Spauhu'tls, ohsmw, that let all the ac-
counts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru he what they will, I never met with
sevonlmn men, in any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humourcd, and so courteous,
as these Spanian'ls: and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it. in their very nature;
no inlnnnanily, no lmrhm'ity, no outrageous passions, and yet all of them men of
great courage and spirit.

'l'hm'r temper-find calmness had nppoared in their hearing the insnil'ernhle
usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice and humanity appeared now
in the Case of the savages, as above. After some consultation, they resolved upon
this, that they would lie still awhile longer, till, it possible these three men might
be gone : but I then the governor Spaniard recollected that the three savages
had no heat ; and that if they were left to rove about the island, they would
certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it, and so they would be undone
that \ 'ay.

Upon this, they went hock again, and them lay tho Fellows fast asleep still;
so they resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The
poor fellows View strawgely frightcd when they were seized upon and bound, and
afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten; for it seems
those people think all the world do as they do, eating men's flesh: but they were
soon mode easy as to that; and away lilo-y carried them.

II: was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to their castle
--I mean to my palace under the hill--~but they carried them first to the bower,
where was the chief of their country work, such as the keeping the goats, the
planting the corn, &c. ; and afterwards they carried them to the habitation of the
two Englishmen.

Here they wore. set to Work, though it wns not: much they had for them to do;
and whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or that they thought the

 

t'fellows could not mmul ilzoxmclves, 1' know not, but one rJ' them run mvnv, and
Mung unto the wands, they <<mid never hear of him more. '
they had good rmsou to believe he got home ngnin man nl'lcr in some

 

[Thu Lnli-m film}

   

C k3 other lmals or canoes of sm'ngcfl, who mum on 31:01": three or ('mu' weeks after-
~ wards, and who, carrying on their revels- as usual, want. off again in No days'
'43? mue. This thought terrified them oxaoediugly; for they mmvludctl, and that Q
I. .
not without good cause indeed, that if this fellow got sofa homo among his
comrades, he would certainly give them an accomit that there were people in
the island, as also how weal: and few they were; for this savage, as 1 observed
before, had never been told, as it was reryham'ny he had not, h w many there
were, or where they lived, nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of their
guns, much less had they shown him any other of their retired places, such as the
on in the valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had made, and
the like.

The first testimony they had that this follow had given intelligence of them
was, that, about. two months alley: this, six canoes of savages, with about seven, or
eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island,
where they never used to come hofore, and. landed about an hour after sunrise, at
a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where
this escaped man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, For not a man of them would
have escaped ; but the wee dill'erod now very much; for two men to fifty were
too much odds. The two men had the happiness to discover them 'ahont a lea gar:
off, so that it was above an hour before they landed; and, as they landed ahoat a
mile. from their huts, it was sometime before they could come at them. Now,
having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they did

'as to bind the slaveswhieh were left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought with the women, who, it seems, proved very faithful to them, to lead
them with their two Wives, and whatever they could carry with them, to their
retired place in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and. there to bind the
two fellows hand and [00(- till they heard fitrthel'.

In the ncxi.' place, seeing the 252w: <<es were all come on shore and that they
beat their course directly that way, they opened the fences where their milch-goals
were kept, and drove them all out, leaving their goats to simgglo into the wood
whither they pleased, that the savages might think they were all bred wild; but
the rogue who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an ace
count of it all, for they went directly to the place.

When the poor frighted men had secured their wives. and goods, they sent the
other slave they had of the three who came with the women, and who was at
their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them the
alarm, and desire speedy help; and, in the meantime, they tool: their {111115, and
what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place in tho wood where
their wives. were sent, keeping at. a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible,
which way the savages took.

Theyhad not gone far but that, from a. rising ground, they could ace the
little army of their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and, in a
moment more, could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up together
to their great grief and xnortifiration; for they had a very great loss, and to
them irretrievuhle, at. least for some time. 'll'hoy lmpt their station for a
while, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over
  

 

the place, rummaging every way, and every place they could think of, in search
for prey, and, in particular, for the people, of whom, it plainly appeared they had
intelligence.

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where they
stood, as it was likely some of the wild people might come that way, so they might.
come too many together, thought it proper to make another retreat about half a
mile further, believing, as it. afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled, a.
the fewer would be together. ""

The. next hair was at the entrance into a very thick grown part of the '
woods, and where on old trunk of a. tree stood, which was hoilow, and "Hall"
large: and in this tree they both took their stunding, resolving to see what
might offer. . I

They had not stood there long, but two of the sarogt-s nnpeured running

directly that way, as it" they had already noticed where they stood, and were
coming up to attach them: and, a little way further, the}" esyied three more
coming after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the sumo. way: besides
which, they saw seven or eight more at a. distance, running another way; for in a
word, they ran every way, like sportsmen hunting for their game.
' The poor men were now in grant perplexity, whether they should Btltllil
and hoop their posture, or llv; but, after a very short debate with themselves,
they considered, thatit' the savages ranged the country thus before help rune,
they might, perhaps, find out their retreat in the woods, and then nll would
he lost; so they resolved to stand them there, and, if they were too many to
rlcnl with, then they would get to the top of the tree, from whence they
doubted not to defend themselves, tire excepted, as long in; t'lu'il' ammunition
lnstetl, though all the. savages that. were landed, which were near lll'l-)',\VL'1'L' to
attach them.

Haring resolved upon this, they next considered whether lhcv should fire 11!-
thc two first, or wait for the three, and so tzdie the middle party, by which the
two and the five that. followed would be separated ; at length they resolved to let
the two first pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and come to nttnck
them. The two first, savages also confirmed the)" in this resolution, by turning a
little from them towards another part of the wood; but the three, and the fire
after them, came forwards directly to the tree, as if they had known the English-
men were there.

Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved to take tin-m in
a line as. the}r came; and no they resolved to tire but one at n time, perhaps
the first shot. might hit them all three; to which purpose, the man who was
to fire put three or four bullets int/.1 his piece, and having :t l'nir loop hole, ns
it were, "mm (1 broken hole in the tree, he took a sure him, without being seen,
waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that. he could
not miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the ravages came on, they plainly saw,
that one of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped from them,
335

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
   

415:3...".,.. ... v ,""'~rx..', ' 7%?

   
   
  
   
    
    
  
  

ADVEN'I'URES 01: nomxson CRUSOE.

 

and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, il' possible, he should
not escape, though they should both fire; so the other stood ready with hie
piece, (lint if he did not. drop at the first shut, he should he sure to have a
second.

But the first. was too good a marksman to miss his aim: for as the savages
kept men: one another, a little behind in a line, in a, word, he fired, and hic two of
them directly; the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head; the
around, which was the runhway Indian, was shot through the body and foil, but
was not quite dead ; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by
the same hall that went through the body of the second; and being dreadfully
frightcd, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming and
yeliing in a hideous manner.

The live that were behind, more fiighled with the noise than sensible of their
danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the sound a thousand rimos bigger
than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to another7 and the {owls
Thing from all parts, screaming and making, every sort, a. several hind ol" noise,
according to their kind, jusl: as whcn'I fired the first gun thal, perhaps was ever
shot OK in that place since it was an island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the mailer was,
came on unconcerned, till they came to that place Where their companions lay
in a condition miserable enough; and here the poor ignorant- oroutures, not
Sensible that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a
huddle over the wounded man, talking and, as may; be supposed, inquiring
of him how he Came to be hurt; and who, it is very rational to believe, told
them that, a. flash of fire firs'r, and immediately after that thunder from their
gods, had h l those two, and wounded him. This, I say, is rational; for
nothing,Y is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so the},' had
never hoard a gun in all their lira, or so much as heard of a. gun; neither
knew they any thing ol' killing and wounding a1. a distance with fire and bullets ;
if they had, one might reasonably hciicve that they would not have stood so
unconcerned in viewing the fate ol' their fellows, without some apprehension of
their own.

Our two men, though, as thuy confessed in me, it grieved them to be obliged
to kill so many poor creatures, who at the same time had no notion of their
danger, yet; having them all thus in their power, and the first. having loaded
his piece again, resolved to lot fly both together among them, and singling
out. by agreement which to aim at, they shot: together, and killed, or very much
wounded, four of them; the fifth, frightened oven to death, though not hurt, full
with the rest; so than: our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they had
killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men come boldly out
from the tree before they had charged their guns again, which was a wrong stop,
and they were under some surprise when they came to the place, and found nu
less than four of the men alive, and of them No very little hurl, and one not at

 

   

AMI)ADVIF'I'EL'XHCS ()I' RUBIXSUN CHUSUE.

 

:i'J; this nhjigcrl them to {all upon them with th') stocks of their muskets: and

 

2deg '5: the ' made 15mm of the runaway smngu that had been the cause of 2111 the
misch . .11111 of another that. wax hurt 'n his knee, and put. [hum out of their

 

   

pmn. 'I'hen (he 1112111 that was not hurt iii uli 011nm and hnuchni down to
them with his two hymns held up, and mmh: ltiteoux moan t1) them by gexnres
and signs for his hie, but euuhi not my one word to them that they could
' i understand.

However, they signified to him to sit down at the foot of :1 true the
cm: of the Englizinnmi, wit h 11 piece of rope-twine which he. hcul by c
packet: ti (l his feet fast together, and his hawk behind him, and there- thrj.' left
him; and made with
what speed they couhl
after the other two
\1'i1it'.h'v\'L'l'8 gum.- before,
hearing they, or an}:
more. 01' then), should
find the way to their
covered place in the
woods, where their

wires, and the. fun-
_ gamis they had left, lay.
<< 'J'hev came once in
' it of th'} twomen, .

in: it w s at n grunt
<<.ii tam-c; hownvn, ihcy I
had the sati faction to
we them cross over :1.
\'aifoy inwards the sen
,' the quite contrary way,-
1 from that. which led to
*- their r trmt, which
' they were afraid of;
and being sat: slied "ith that. they went, 1.11.1: to the tme where the)" ex": thni1
1111501101, who, as the. snppozed, "as deiircicri hyhis (.CnlldtiLS: fox he \1 n: gum,
and the two pivces of mine-yarn, ""itil which they had hound him, lay juzt at the
foot of the tree.

The}: were now in us great :1 concern as before, nnt knowing whai- course to
take, or how new: the enemy in ht be, or in what numbers; 50 they "'5'"va to
go flwfly to the place where their wires were, to see if all was we" there: ""d '0
make them easy, who were in fright enough to he sure: fur though the sax-ages
won: their own uuuntrj--roiks, 3 they were most. terribly afraid of them, and
purhnpa' the more for the hnmvl .gc they 11an of them.

""110" they came thither, thoy found the savages hmi been in the wuwl, :uul
"CIT "PM the- place, but had not found it: for indeed it "'th i11aucu=sihh-, hy the

3H' Q . .. @5335!"

 

 

trees minding so than, as before, nnlcw the p '15 seeking it had hm" 39
(lireetud by those llmi. knew it,whi(:h these were. not; they found, tlaa'ol'nre, g
every thins: very safa, only the woman in a terrible fright. While their were ..i
here, they had the comfort (If seven of the Jpnniards coming to their assistance;
the other ten men with their servants, and old l"rida;,-, I mean Friday's father, .I
were gone in a body to defend their Lower, and the. corn and callln that were kept
there, in case the savage $hould go over to that side 01' (he country; but they
did not spmacl so far. \'Vith the seven Spaniards came one of the sm'a_ ,
who, as I snid, were their Prisoners formerly, and with them also came the.
vlmm the Englishmen had left. hound hand and funt at the tree; for it.
scuins they came that. way, saw the daughter of the save-n men, and nnlmund the
eighth, and hruught him along with than), where, iIUS'y'L'Vci', the > "rem 01.12de to
bind him again: as they had done the two othcrs who were left when the third
ran an

The prisoners hogan now to be a burden to them; and they were so afraid
nl" their escaping, that they thought. they new under an absolute meant: to
kill them for their own preservation: however, the Spaniard governor would
not consent. in it, lnn, ordered, that they should be sent out of the way w my old
mm in ilm valley, and he kept (hero, with two Spaniards to guard them and give
them food; which was done: and they were hound [here hand and foot for that.
night.

When the S1) 'n'Lls came. the two E1 Shmcn were so encouraged, that
they could not satin 3. thcmsclv is to stay any longer there; but. taking of the
Spaniards and themselved, with four iuwshets and a pistol among them, and two
smut quarter res, away they went in quest of the savages. And first Illi')'
came to the tree where the men lay that. had been killed; but it was my to sea

 

  

551V

 

 

  

 
    
   

 

   

 

 

   

that some more of the savages had been there; lbr they attempted to cm -' their
dead men away, and had dragged two of them a good way, but had g, ven it.

over. From thence they :ulyanced to the first riea'ng gmnnd, where they had
stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where. they had the mortiflcation still 10
See some of the smoke; but. neither could they here see any of the savages.
They then resolved, though with all pouihlc caution, to go forward towards
their plantation ; but a little before they came. thither, coming in sight of the sea-
shore, the"; plainly saw the savages all embarking again in their comes, in order
to he gone.

The-3' seemed sorry at first. that. there was no way to come at them to give
them a parting blow, but. upon the whole they were very well satisfied to be rid
of them.

 

 
   
       
 

il'hu'puor Englishmen being nnw twice ruined, and all their impmvenients
(l\':sll".'_\'\.'1',illc rust. all agreed to mine and help them to rchuild, and to assist them
with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who were not yet noted for
having the least inclination to do any thing good, yet, as soon as filmy heard of it
(for they living remote, knew nothing till all was mar), came and offered their
help and nsmtance, and did very friendly work for several days to restore theirC SS,:&h'9$rPS;, '. .._','!'<<";!'W;'7 mefi finial;

ADVESTURES 01" {OBXNSUN CRUSOE.

lmhimriom, and mnhc nocesamies for them; and thus, in n. lilllc, (hm; were set.
upon their log: again. .

About. two days alter this, they had the further satisfaction of seeing three of
this. snmgcs' canoes come drh ing on shore, and at some distance from them, with
two drowned men; by which (he; had mason to holim'e thnt thev lmd moi. with
a slarm at sea, which had Mamet. some of them, for it blew very hard the night,
:xl'u'l.' i'ncy went oil'- '

Howcmr, ns some might )niscarry, SI), on the other hand, enough 01' them
csonpnd to inform the rest, as well of what lhcy had done, as of n'hal. lmppmml
to them; and to whet them on to another enterprise of the some nulnro. whirl:
they, it so me, resolved to attempt, with sufileient force to carry :lll' ln-foro
thorn ; for except w at the first man had told them of inhahiinnls, thi-y could m'
little to it of thoir mrn knowledge; for they never saw one. mun, and the felluiv
lining killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witnesses to confirm it to
them.

It was five or six months after this before they heard an}; more of the sax-ngrs,
in which time our men were in hopes they had not forgot their former n1 hick,
or had giveirovcr the hopes of better; when, on a snddeu, thcywcre invaded
with :I. most formidable fleet. of no loss than twenty--eight canoes, full of sm'ngor,
armed with lions and arrows, great. clubs, Wooden swords, and such like amino;
of war; and they brought such numbers wilh them, that, in short, it. put all our
pimple into the utmost consternation.

As they come on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of the
island, our men had that night to consult amd nonsitler who: to do; and, in
tlm' first. place, knowing that. their being entirely Conronlorl was their onlv
safely lit-low, and would mnch more be {to now, while the mnnhcr of their
enemies wns so great, they therefore resolved, iimi of nll, to take down this huts
which were built for the two Englishman, and drive away their giants to the old
cam: hopouse they supposed the. savages would go directly thither as soon as it
was day, to play the old game ("0' again, though they did not now land within
two leagues of' it.

In the next platen, they drove away all the flock of goats they had at the old
honor, as _l ('nlled it, which belonged to the Spaniards: and, in shorl, loft :1 - little
npnesmnce ofinhnhitnnbs on; where as possible: and the next. morning oar Lhoy

 

 

-}'m.=.tcd themselves, nilh all their force, at the planlmion of the two men, nuil' 1g

 

for their coining. As the}. Lgnnsscd, so it happened: those new invaders, let
their canoes at the. cast end of the island, came rnnging along the shows, directly
towards the place, to the Innnhor of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men
could judge. Our army was bid: small indeed; but that which was worse, they
had not arm: for all their number noithcr. The whole account, it seems, stood
thus :----_firsr, us to men--S nlaen Spanim'ds; fire Englishmen; one old l'll'itlfly
or Friday's father _: "iron 5 men, taken with the wonwn, who provml very fullhlul;
three other slaves, who lived with tho Spaniards--total, twentynino. To arm
those ihoyhnd--ul-onn nmskels; five pistols; three finding-pieces; live mnskcts,

(1
nth

 

   

(or l'owliuwpieves, which were taken by me l'rum the luminous seamen whom 1
reduced; two swords , three old linlhc total, twenty-nine.

To their slaves they did not give either musket. or fusil, but they had every
<<mo :1 lmlhert, or u. long stuff, like it qimrtcpstnfl', with a gram. spike of imn
fastened intn ouch 0nd of if, and by his side a hatchet; also every mm of our
men land lmlchcrs. 'l'am of {he women could not he prevailed upon, but they
would come into the light, and they had hows and arrows, whinh the Spaniards
had mkcn from the savages "hon the first action linwuucd, which I have
spr l 0?, when: 1he Indians laugh: with one (mother 5 and the women had,
hatchet; loo.

so al'ren. commmiderl "20
whole; and \\ 1 am Alhins, \x'lzn, (lzmlgh :x 1' :mful fellow 301' "'1 'edness, war a

mml' flaring Imhl 'l'vlimv 1' 7 ' him The snrngns 0mm.- fcrwnrd like

lions, and our men, xx :10, had no advantage in their

mtimi: mil}r that wWill )'llil who nim' pz'urcd a most- hsel'ul fellow, with six
men, was planted. just behind a small thicket ul' bushes, am an ndvancerl gnarl.
with orders 1'0 1M: Hm first of lhem pan by, and than fire into the middle of them _:
nnd, as surm us he had fired, to mnhe his I'Mrml, :N )Il![ll)l_'.' as he could, round n
part of the. "omit. and so come in behind the Spaniards where they stood, having

a thialwt 0? trees all hollow! 13mm.

When the savages (mm: on, they rnn slraggliug about every Way in heaps,
out of nll manner of order, and Will Atki 5 let about Iil'tyuf them pass h)-
him: then, seeing the rest come in n very thick throng, he orders three of hismen to fire, having loaded their mus-hats with six or seven hullols a--piece, about
ns big as pistol bullets. How many (by killed or: wounded they knew not: hm:
the consternation and gmpz'isc was inupressi'leo. mnong the savages, who \mi'u
(lighted to the last degree, lo beau: such :L (lz'cnilful n and 5:! three men
killed, and others hurt, bur. see nobody that did it ; when. in the miihllu uf their
fright, William Atkins and his other tlzrae let. fly again! among the thickest of

 

 

[The Encmymnh]

them; and, in less than :1 minute, the first three, being loaded again, gave them
It third volley.

Had William Atkins and his men J'etii'csi immediately, as soon as theylmd
fired, as they were ordered to (lo, or had the rest. of the body been at hand in
have poured in their shot continually, "in savages had been ell'ectnally muted;
for the terror that was among them came. pl'incipnlly from this, namely, that$31sz .. ... ,. V ,.~i:q<i!(:"

 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

they were killed. by the gods with limmlrn' and lightning, and could see. nobody
that hurt them: but William Atkins slaying 1.0 load again, discovered the cheat;
some of the savages, who were at :1 distance, spying them, came upon them
behind; and though Atkinsnnd his men fired at them also, two or three times,
and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
afterwards one Spanimd, and one of the Indian slams who came with the women.
This slave wns (1 most. gallant follow, and Fought. most desperately, killing five of
them with his own hand, having no weapon but one of the annml slaves and :t
hatchet.

Our men being ilms hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other men killed,
retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, idler firing three
volleys upon them, retreated also; for their number was so great, and they were
so desperate, that though nhm-'c fifty of them were killed, and more than so
many wounded, yet the}r came on in the tenth of our men, fearless of (longer,
and shot their arrows like a cloud ; and it; was observed, that their wounded men,
who weru not, quite disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and fought
like, madman.

When our men retreated, thoylcft the Spaniards and tho Englishmen that
were killed, behind them; and the savages, when they came up to them, killed
them over again in a wretched manner, hreaking their arms, legs, and heads, with
their clubs and wooden swords, like trim snvngcs. Bur, finding. our men "rem
gone, they did not seem inclined to pursue them, but. drew themselves up in n kind
of ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted. twice in inkcn of their
vicinity; after which, they had the. moriilicniion to see several of their wounded
men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together upon a rising
groimd, Atkins, though he was Wounded, would have had him march, and charge
2' them all together at. once: but the Spaniard replied, "Seignor Atkins, you soc

' how their wounded mun fight: let them alone till morning; all these wounded
men will he stiff and sore wiLh their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood, and
so we shall have the fewer to engage."

The whim was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That's true, Soignor,
and so shall I too; and that's the roman I would go on while I am warm,"--
" Well, Seignor Atkins" says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly, and
done your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot come. on; but I think it best
to stay till morning :" so they waited.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found. the savages in great
disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great hurry and noise among
them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the night,
especially ii" they could come to give them but one volley before they were dis-
covered. This they had a fair opportunity to (lo; for one of the two Englishmen,
in whose quarter it was whom the light begun, led them ronncl between the woods
and the sen-side, westward, and turning short south, they came so near where

846

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

u" -.. '..r. . , -.MWENTURRS (JP TIDBINSON Cltlffiol'i.

the thickest of them lay, that before they were seen or heard, eight of them fired
in among them, find did dreadful execution upon them; in half a minute more,
eight others fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such :1 quantity, that
abxmdanoc were killed and wounded, and all this while they were not able to
who hurt them, or which \\':ty to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and the
themselves into three bodies, and resolv.d to fall in among them all wge'lhm'.
They hnd in each body eight. persons-t'hat is to say, twenty-four, whereof were
twenty-two men, and the two women, who, by the way, fought desperately.

They (lividml the fire-arms equally in each party, and so) of lhe lzallmrls and
stares. The;r would have had the women keep buck; but they said they were
resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed their little army, they
marched out from among the trot-s, and came up to the teeth of tho. enemy,
"hunting and hallooing as loud as they could. The savages stood all together, but
were in the utmostwunfusion, hearing the Noise of our men shouting i'rnm three
quarters together-they would have fought if they had seen us; and as soon as
we come near enough to be seen, some aurows were shot, and ponr nhl Friday was
wounded, though not dangerously. But our men gave them no time, but, running
up to them, fired among them three ways and then fell in with the but ends of-
their muskets, their swords, armed stares, and hate-hats; and laid about them so
well, that in a word, they not up a- dismal rscmaming and howling, {lying to save
their lives which way soevcr they could.

Our men were tired with the cxemxtion, and killed, or mortally wounded,
in the two fights, about one hundred and uighty of them; the rest, being
[lighted out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over the l A .Wltll
all the speed that fear and nimble feet could help them to do: and as we did
not trouble oursclms~ much to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-wide,
where theylnuded, and where their cameos lay" But their disaster was not at
an end yet, for it blew a. terrible storm of wind that evening from the. seat-ward,
so that il: was impossible for them to put off ; nay, the storm continuing all
night, when the tide came. up, their canoes were most of them driven by the
Surge of the sea on high upon the share, that it required infinite toil to get them
0E; andsomc of them were rlasied to picms against the beach, or against one
another. '

Our men, though glnd of their victory, yet. got little rest thsL night; but
having- rof'roslied themselves as well as they could, they resolved to nmrch to that
part of the island where the savages \ >> fled, nml to sou what posture they
Were in. This necessarily led them over the place \vln'l'e the fight had been, and
where they found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and )'et past
recovering life--a sight disagrc-onhlc enough 11> generous mir ' for a truly grant.
man, tlmugh obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes. no delight
in his misery.

ECG

u divided

 

 

 

 

 

However, there was no need in give any order in this case; for their own savages,
who worn their servants, despatchcrl these poor creatures with their lzntchuts.
At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable remains of
the saragos' army lay, where (here appeared about one hundred stillmtlxeir posture
was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees up towards their month,
and the head put between the hands, leaning down upon the knees.

When our men came within two mustn't-shot of thorn, the Spaniard governor
onlercd two musket-s to he fired without hall, to alarm them: this he did, that by
their countenance he might know what to expect-- namely, whether they were
still in heart to fight, or \rere so heartily beaten, as to he ("spirited and discouraged,
and so he might manage ucwrdinglr.

This stratagam tool: ; for as soon as the savages heard the first gun, and saw
the flash oi. the second, they started upon their feet. in the greatest consternation
imaginable : and as our men advanced swiftly towards thmn they all ran
screaming and yawiing away, with a kind of a howling noise, which our men did
not understand, and had never heard before; and thus they ran up (he hills into
the country. .

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and they had
all gone awny to sea; hut they did not then consider that this might prohnbl,'r
have been the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes as not to he
waisted; or, at; least, to come so many and so often, as would quite desolate the
island, .and starve them, "'ill Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his
wound, kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this case. Lia advice
was, to take the advantage that ofl'erod, and clap in hotwacn them and their heals,
and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any more 'to plague the
island.

They consulted long about this, and some were against it, for fear of making
the wretchcs fly into the woods, and live there desyeratc; and so they should have
them to hunt. like wild beasts, be afraid to stir about their business, and have their
plantations coutimndly r1 llcd, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, he
reduced to a life of continual distress.

'lt' ill Atkins told them they had hotter have to do with one hundred men than
with one lnmdred nations; that, as they must destroy their boats, so they must
rloeroy Lho men, or he all of them destroyed themselves. 'In a word, he showed
them the niece ' ' of it so plainly, that. they all came into it; so they went to
work immediately with the boats, and got-ling some dry wood together from 9. dead
tree, they tried to set some of them on fire; but they were so wet, that they would
scarce burn. However, the fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made them
unfit for swimming in the sea as lmats. When the Indians saw what they were
about, some of them came running out ol'thc woods, and coming as near as they
could to our men, knoeled, down, and cried, "Us, On, W'nmmokon," and some
other words of their language, which none of the other>> understand any thing of ;
but as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand
they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never
return thither again.

But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve themselves,mug.>> fi/Llrtfrfi'mflfialv Z V

ADVENTUMLS 0F ROBIXSON CRUSUE
or to save their 'colony, but efl'ectunlly to prevent my or ,thesu people from ever
going homo. again ; depending ilpou thin, tlmL if ever so much as one of them go:
hgml: into their country to ball the story, the colony was undone : sn that, let-Lin"
them know that, they should not have any mercy, thm' fell to work u-ithmhci:
chimes, and destroyed them 'everj' one that the storm lnid not destroyed before:
.nt. the g'ght of whicb, the snvsigcs raised a. hideous cn' in ihc woods, which our
people heard plain enough, after which they un alien-t le island like dislmcled
men; so that, in a word, our men did not. really know :It liist what to do with
112cm.

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their ymdencc, mnsirlei', that. while thcv
made those people thus despei'ate, Lllcy ought to have kept. good guard at thi-

 

   

h' same time upon their plantations; for though, it is true, they haul driven away
" their cattle, and tho Indians did not. liud their main retreat, I mean my old castle
I n: the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet the}r found out my plaiuntion ut- the
bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the Iiimms and planting about it; trpd all
the corn under foot; (me up the vines nnd grapes, being just thenalmost ripe ;
and did our: men an incstiumhio. damage, though to themselves not one farthing's
worth of service.
Though our men were able to fight. them upon all occasions, yet they were
in no condition to pursue them, or hum, them up and dawn; for as they were
too nimble of foot for our men when they found them single, so our men (inns:

345)

 
   
 
   
 
  

_--'>ac'x:~r-W' -' ---' * wry-aw
not go about single fox-dear of being surrounded with their numbers. The best
was, they hall no weapons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any, nor had they any edged tool or Weapon among
them.

The extremity and distress they new reduced to was great, and indeed.
deplorable, but'at the same time om: men were brought to Yerylmrd circum--
stances by them, for though their retreats were preserved, y't their provision
was destroytxl, and their harvest Spoiled; and what to do, or which way to turn
themselves, they knew not; the only refuge they had now, was the steel: of
cattle they had in the valley by the care, and some little mm which grew
there. The three Englishmen, W'illimn Atkins and his comrades, were now
reduced to two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the
side of his heml, just under the temples, so that he neverspoke more: and it
was very remarkable, that this was the same barbarous fellow who cut the poor
savage slave with his hatchet, and who allerwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.

I look upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was at
any time after I had first discovered the grains of barley and rice, and got
into the method of planting and raising my com, and my tame cattle ; for nor;
they hurl, as I may say, an hundred wolves upon the island which would
devour every thing they could come at, yet could be very hardly come at
tliexusulvca.

The first thing they concluded when they .saw what their "cumstnncns were,
was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the fartl r port of the land,
south-east, that ifnny more savages come on shore, they might not. find one another ;
then that they would daily hunt and harass them, mid kill as many of them as
they could come at, till they had reduced the number ; and if they could at last
tame them and bring them to any thing, they would give them corn, and teach
them how to plant, and live' upon their daily labour.

In order to this they followed them, and so terrified them with their guns, that.
in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, he
would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully frightened they were, that they kept
out of sight farther and further, till at: last 'our men following them, and every
clay almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods and
hollow places so much, that it reduced thorn to the utmost misery; for want of
food ; and many were aftemards found dead in' the Woods without zuzv hurt, but
merely starved lo (oath. ,

When our man found this, it made their hearts: relent, and pity moved them
~espoeially the Spaniard governor, who was the most gentleman-like, generous-
mimled man, that eer me; with 1' n my life; and he pmpoaed, if possible, to take
am: of them alive, and bring him to miderstoml what they meant, so for as; to he
able- to art as interpreter, and to go among them, and see if they might be. brought
to some conditions that mightbe depended upon, to SW8 their lives, and do us
no spoil.

 

 

    
 

. . V
-' ----. m - ~ J Whum-mam " ' ' h . ugly",

 
 

ADVENIIURES 014' ROBINSON CRUSOE.

    

   

 

It was some time before any of them could bu taken; but h 3 weak, and
half-starved, one of them was ntlsst surprised, and made a prisoner--she was
sullen at first, and would neither out nor drink; but finding: himself kindly usunl,
and rictunls given him, and no violence altered him, he at last grow trnctuhlo, and
come in himself.

They h ought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told him how
kind the others would be them all; that they would not: only save their lives, hm:
would giro them a purl; of the island to live in, provided they would give an 1.>>-
iiiclion that they would keep in their own boum'la, and not come beyond tlzem, lo
injure or prejudice Others; and that they should have corn given drum, to plant
and mnkc it grow for their bread, and some bread given them for their present.
subsistence; and old Friday bade the Follow go and tall: with tho rest of his
mu fryiuen, and hear what they said to it, assuring them, than; if they did not
agree innnediat hf, they should all he destroyed.

The poor u , chm, thoroughly hnnihlml, and reduced in numher to about
thirty-seven, closed with the propowl at the first offer, and hcggutl to lnwn some
food given them ; upon which, twelve Spaniards, and two l'inglislnumi, Wull
matted, and three Indian slaves, and old Friday, marched to the place when: they
were. The three Indian slaves carried them it large quantity of bread, and some
rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the'snn, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of it hill, where they sat down, are the provisions very
thnnhliilly, and were the most faithful fellows to their words that COlllll be tho t
of; for except when they cnmc to beg victunls, and directions, they never came
out of their bounds; and there they lived when I came to the. island, and I went
to see them.

They had taught them to plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats, and
mill: them--they winded nothing but wives, and they would soon have been a
nation. Tho)? were confined to a hack of land surrounrlcd with high rocks
behind them, and lying plain towards the sea before them, on the south nst
corner of the island--they lmd hind enough, and it was vcrygnml and fruitful;
for they had a piece of land about a mile and a half brand, mtd three or lum-
miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for myself, and
gave among them twelve hatchets, and thmo or four knives ; and them they lived,
the most subjected innocent alumni-e54 that were ever heard of.

Aft .. ' this, the colony cujoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect to the savages,
till l. came to revisit then), which was in nlmnt two years. Not. hut- thnt now and
then some canoes of stir. ous camn on shore) for their triumphztl, unnatural toasts;
but as they were of several nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of time that
came before, or thereason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they-had, it would have been very hard for them to
have found them out.

Thus, I think, I have given :1 full account of all that happened lo them to my
return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indiana, or savages, were wonderfullyanvnni'unzs 0n nonmson onuson.

civilized by them, and they frequently wont. among them ;' hut forbade, on pain
of death, any of the Indians coming to them, because they would not have their
settlement betrayed again.

One thing was very remarkable, namely, that they taught the savages to make
wickczhwork, or baskets; but they soon nutdid their masters--for they made
abundance of most ingenious things in wicker worli-iepnrticnlnrly all sorts of
baskatn, sieves, bird--coges, cupboards, &c., as also chairs to sit on, stools, hurls,
couches, and nbuudmme of other things, being very ingenious at such work, when
they were oncn put. in the way of it. '

My coming was a yariicnhir relief to these people, because we furnished them
with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, piclmxes, and all things of that kind which

thny could want.

W'ith . the help of
these tools they wen; so
very handy, that they
came at last in build up
their huts, 01' houses,
very handsomely; rud-
dling, or working it up
like 'bnslemg'worlc all the
uni round, which I was
a \'cry' extmonlinary
piece of ingmmity, and
looked very odd, bm;
was an exceeding good
fence, as well against
heat as againstall sorts
of vermin ; and our men
were so taken with it, .
that they got the wild snmgnnm come and do the like for them; so that when
I'cnmc to see the two Englishman's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
lined all like hens in a hive: and, as for "'iil Atkins, who was now become a very
industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he lmtl made himself 811ch 41 tom 0f
basket-work as I believe was never seen. It was one hundred and twentjr pawns
round on the outside, as I measured by my steps: the walls were as dose worked
as a basket, in paunols, or squares, thiriy--two in. number, and very strong, standi 11g
about seven feet high: in the middle was another not above twenty-two pm>>
round, but built stronger, being eight--squint in its form, and in the eight corners
stood eight very strong posts, round the top of which he laid strong pieces, joined
together with wooden pins, from which he raised ix pyrmnid before the roof of
eight rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and joined together very well, though
he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, which he had made himself tor), out
of the Old iron that I had loll; there. And, indeed, this follow showed abundance
of ingenuity in seveml things which he had no knowledge of : he made himself a

 

    

~ <<:3 mmw--awvmnm

x.

  
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

  

 

<<9"

. . '"'-"".'?--!.7-'J""'

 

.3_.~SS_.forge, with a pair of \mmlmi bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal
{01' his work, fllltl ho farmed out of one. of the iron crows u middling; gnarl nm'il h)
hummer upon; in thi; manner he rmule many things, buL especially hunks staples
and spikes, bolts and hinges. But, to return to film house: aft/er he pitched the
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters with basket--work
so firm, mid thatched that over again so iugeuiuusly with fleck l. w, :unl over that
a. large leaf of a tree, which (revered the tog~ that. his house was as dry as if it. had
lsmm tiled or slnml. Indeed, he owned that": the savages made (he basket-work
for him.

 

  

wwww- ._'

_./--_......_..._ ._.. ..,,- ._ _._.___.-_... _ .. .l_.'-..l:_._--.._.~.z}.-

cm...-

[me Reconciliation

The outer circuit. was covered, as a lean-lo, all round this inner apartment
and long mum's lay from the thirty-two angles to the top posts ol' the inner him-e,
being about twenty feet. distant; so that there was a. space like a walk Within
the outer wicker wall, and without the. inner, near twenty feet wide.
The inner plus>>: he partitioned off with the same wickcmvorlt, but. much
fuirm', and divided into six apartments, for that he'hnd nix rooms on a floor and
on: 0.1" every one of these there was a dour--limt into the entry, or coming into
the main tent; and mother door into the. space of walk that. was round it; no
that this walk was also divided into six equal parts, which aervod not only for a
retreat, in: tu store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for.
These sii space: not. taking up the whole cirmnnfei'cnm, what other apartments
the outer lo had, wel'e'tlms ordered 2-- u soon aa you were in at the door of
the outer circle, you haul at short passage .ight before you to the door ol' the
inner house; but on either side was a wicker partition, and n donr in it, by which
you went first into n large room, or storehouse, twenty feet. wido, and about
thin}r feet long, and through that into another not quite so long: so that in
the outer rii'cle were ten handsome moms, six of which were only to he come
at through the apartments of the inner mm, and served as closets, or retired
moms to the respective chambers of the inner circle; and. four large \vtu'e-
houses, or btu'ns, or what, you. please to call them, which went in through one
another, two on either hand of the passage that led through the. outer dam: to the
inner tent.

Such apiece ol'hreket--work, I believe was never seen in the world, not a,
house nor Mint so neatly contrived, much less so built. in this great. hoe-him
lived the three litmilies--thst is to say, Will Atkins and. his Comp" uion ; the third
was lCllifld, hut. his will: remained with three children, for she ., if; seems, big
with child when he died; and the other two were not at all backward to gym the
widow her full share of ever): thimg, I mean an to their mm, milk, grapes, 8:0",
and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore : so that. they all lived
well enough, though, it was true, they were not so industrious as the other two,
as has been observed nlrerdxl'. .

One thing, however. c..niot be omitted, namely, that, as' for religion, I don't.
lmm'v that there was (\an thing of that kind aiming them; they piettj,' oftmt,
indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, by the very common method
of seamen, namely, swem'inghy his name; nor were their poor, ignnrtmt, savage
wives, 11mph the hettcrfor having been married to Christians, as we must cull
them ; for, as they knew very little of God tlnnnsclvcs, so they were utterly
incapable of entering into any discourse with their wives about. It God, or to talk
any thing to them concerning religion. -' ' '

T he utmost of nil, the imlzufovmmnt which I can say the wives had nntdu from
them was, that, they had taught them to speak English pretty well; and nll the
children they had, which were near twenty in all, were taught to speak Eng lish

'too, from their first learning to apesdz, though they at fiist Spoke it in a very
broken manner like their mothers. There were none of'thoso children almvo six
3'0,an old when I came thither; for it was not much shove seven years that. they
had littehml these five savage ladies over ; but they had all been pretty fruitful,
for they haxl all chikh-(m, more or loss. I think the cook's mate's will: was big; of
her sixth child; null the mothers were all a good sort of well-gmerned, quiet,
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
     
 
  

 

 

 

laborious women, mcdeat and decent, helpful to one annther, mighty observant.
and subject to their masters--1 cannot call them hushauds~aud wanted nothing
hut to be well instructed in the Christian religion, and to he legally manned; hath
which were happily brought about, afterwards by my means, or at least. by :hc
consequence of my comm; among them.

Having thus gwen an account. of the colony in generai.a11<i pretty mu: h of
my fire runngnfe Englishmen, I must say something of the Spamm 11>, who 11- 131v.
the main hotly of the PS1111ily,ancl in whose story there are some incidents also
remarkable enough.

111ml :1 great many discourses with them ahout their eimnmsiances when
they were among the snmges: they told me readily, that they had no instances
to give of their applies" ion or ingenuity in 111111, counirv--that they were 11 poor
missrahle, dejected handful of people--than, if means hit/cl been 11111. in their
hands, thev had yet so abandoned themselves to desuair, and so sunk u111l1a' 1.1111.
weight oi their 111isl'ortrmes: that they thought (If nothing but starving. One of
them, a grave and '1ch sensible 1111111, told me he was convinced Lliev were 1'11 H111.
wrong--(ha! it was not the part of wise men to f'i'10 'homsmvos up to their
misery, hut 1111111111 to take hold of ll. (2 helps which mason Minted, as well for
present support as for future deliverance. He told me, that grief was the
most senseless, insignificant passion in the world; for that i: regarded only things
past, which were Lreizeradly impossible to be recalled or to be remedied hm had no
new to things to come, and 11ml no slmre' 111 11111 thing that. looked like. 1-l1_~li1.e1:111m\.
but rather 511111111111 the sillicLiou than proposed a remcdv; and upon this i111
repeated :1 ulpunish prow1li.whic11, thouwh ] cannot repeat: in just the same
nerds that he spoke it. yet I remember 1 made it into an 13111rlial1 111111 (211) of 11111

011 11, thus- :
In 111111111110 ha mauled,
Is [.11 him: 511111: {within (loahlcih _

He then ran on in remarks 11111111 all the little improvements 1 had made in
my solitude; my unwearietl npplimfian'as he mllcdit, and how 1 had made a con-
dition whirh. in its circumstances, 1111: at first. 111111211 worse than theirs, 111l1ousnnrl
times more happy than theizs 11' as, even now when they were all i111gethe12l-lc
told me it "as remarkable that Englishmen had a. greater presence of 111i111ii11
their (iiSClYESS than any people that ever he- met \1 xth--t 11.1.hci1 unhappv nation,
1111111110 l'artugues'e, were the wo1st' men in the woiid to snuggle with mis-
fortmxux; for, that their first step in dangms, after 11111111111111 efforts are over, was
always to despair--lie down under it and die, 111thoul11)11si11g their thuujrhts 11,1
to proper remedies fm escape.

hold him theii case and mine differed 13xccarli11gly_1hat 1i 1' were cast. 1111011
the shore Without 11ece._aries, \'iiilmut suppijf of food, or of .p 111. sustenance,
till they could provide ib--'llm: iris true 1 had this disadvantage and (lisvmnlbrl,
that I was alone; but than the supplies I had providently thrown into my hands,
by the unexyected driving of the ship on shore, was s. ,h a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I had done."Seignor," any: the Spaniard, "had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we
should never have gotten half those things outol' the ship as you did. Nay," says
he, " we should never have found means to have gotten a raft to carry them, or
to have gotten a raft on shore without bent or sail; and how much less should we
lmvc done," said he, " if any of us had lawn alone!" "'el], I desired him to
<<how his compliment, and go on with the history of their coming on shore, where
they landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a place where there were
people without provisions ; whereas, had they had the- comnron sense to have put
off to sun again, and gone to another island a little farther, they had found pro-
visions, though without people, there being an island that way, as they had linen
told, whom there were provisions, though no people--that in to any, that the
Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there, and filled the island with goats
and hogs at several times, where they have bred in such multitudes, and where
turtle and sen-lbwls worn in such plenty, that they could have been in no want of
flesh, though they had found no bread; whereas here they were only sustained
with a fen- roots and herbs, which they understood not, and which had no sub-
stance in them and which the inhabitants gave their sparingly enough, and who
could treat them no better, unless they would turn Cannibals, and eat nien'a flesh,
which was the great dainty of the country.

The-y gnu; me an account how many ways they strove to civilian the savages
they were with, and to'teach them rational customs in the culinary way of living,
but in vain; and how they retortcd it upon them an unjust, that they who came
thither for assistance and support should attempt to set up for instructors of those
that gave them broad; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the
instructors of others but those who could live without them.

T he}' gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven to; how
sometimes they were many days without any food at all, the island they were upon
being inhabited by a sort of snvsges that lived more indolent, and for that
reason were less supplied with the necessaries of life than they had reason to_
believe others were in the same part of the world; mnl yet they found that these
savages were less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies
of food. .

Also, they added, that they could not but see with what demonstrations: of
wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God directs the event of things
in the world, which they said appeared in their circumstances; for it", pressed by
the hardships they were under, and the bzu'renness of the country where they
were, they had searched after a. better place to live in, they had then been out of
the way of the relief that happened to them by my meant.

'l'hen they gave me an account how the savages whom they lived among
expected them to go out with them into their ward; and it was true, that as they
lutd fire-arms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose their arnunition,
they should not have been scrviccnblo only to their frienth, but have made
themselves terrible both to friends and enemies; but being without powder and
shot, and in n condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their7 .- >__'._,...

.4-- .2 .n t."

 

   
  

ADVE) URES 01" ROBINSON CRUSUE.
landlords to their wars, when they calm: in llie field. of battle they were in a. worse
condition 1.21mi the savage: themselve.>> fut: they neither had hows nor arrows, nor
conhl they usn Lhasa lhc swivggxes gave tin-mi, so Lhal. tiny cuuhl do nothing hm.
stand still anal. be wounded wit-h arrows, till they 'zmie up to tho. teeth of their
guemy; and then, indeed, the thrcc halhc: 5 they hail were of usv to them, and
they would often firing a "hole little arm}; before them with those liulhrrls and
sharpened sliClE put into the muzzles of their mus. but that for all this, they
were sometimes surmumlcxl wi1h multimtlcs, and in great danger from their
arrows; till at last they found the way to make lemsclves large tnrgcts of wood,
which they covered with ahius of wild beasts, whose names tin

 

 

- knew um. and

 

these covered them From the arrows of the savages; 1 ".r izuuvithsmnding thew,

  

they were sometimes in great danger, and were once L e of them knocked down
together "ith the clubs of the savages, which wn; 11w, limo when uue'cl' them was
tithe" prisoner, that is to :51; the Spaniard whom I had relieved; that at first they
.thouglif- he had been killed, but. when nflcrwnrde thcyhcnrtl he was. taken priseuer,
they were under Hus. greatest. grief i maginahlc, and would willingly limu all
ventured their lives to have rescued him.

 

 

 

 

They told me, that when they were so knocked down, the msl of their compan}F
rescued them, and stood over thmn fighting till they "wire vnme to themselves, in"
hut he who they thought hurl been dead; and Excn they much: their way Willi
their hulheits and pieces, standing close together in a line, through a lmt-ly of
above a thousand savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the \'l('|SS0!':'{
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with the loss of their

557

   

w~~n * w,ADVENTURES OF 110an SUN szusma.
friend :_ whom the other party, finding him alive, carried off with some others, as
I gave an account. in my former.

"l'hey desvribed, most affectionately, how they were sin-prised with joy at, the
return of their friend and companion in misery, who they thought. had been
dammed by wild beasts of the worst kind, namely, by wild men; and yet how
more and more they were surprised with the account: he gave them of his crl'mltl.
nmi that there was a Christian in a place near, much more one that was able, mul
had humanity enough to contribute to their deliverance.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief I Sun:
them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they had not>> been since
their coming to that miserable place; how often the}; crossed it, and blessed it as
bread sent From Heaven; and what a reviving cordial it. was to their spirits to
taste it, as also of the other things i had sent for their supply. And, after all,
they would have told me. something of the jo}r they were in at the sight: of a horn
anti pilots to carry them away to the person and piece from w hence all these new
comforts came; but they told me it. 'was impossible to express it by word>>, li'n'
their excessive jar}v driving them" to unbecoming ex .wagunccs, they had no way
to describe them hut. by telling me that. they bordered upon iun arii r no Way
to give vent to their passion suitable to the sense that. was upon them--that- in
some it worked one way, and in some another--and that some of them, through a

. surprise of joy, would burst. out into tears --Iothem be half mad, and 0th 5
immediately faint. This disruurw extremely silicate-d um, and mlieti [0 my mind
Friday's ecstany when he met. his father, and the. poor people's ecstasy when I
took them up at sea, after their shi 1) was on lire ; the male ol'thc ship's joy when
he fonnd himself delivered in the place where he expected to perish; and my
own joy, when. alter twenty-eight. yonrs' captivity, I found n good ship randy to
carry me to my own comizry. All these things mnde me more sensible oi the
relation ol' these poor men, and more affected with it.

1qung thus given a View of the state of things as I found them, I must relate
the heads of what I {lid for these people, and the condition in which I hall. them.
It. was their oniuiun, aud mine too,,that they would be troubled no more with the
savages; or that, if they "were, they'wonld'he able to not them off, if they were
twice as many; as before; so that. they had no concern about- that. Then I entered
into a xeriunsxiiseourse with the Spaniard, whom i. called governor, about. their
stay in the island: for as I was not come to carry any of them off, so it would
not he just. to ear ,- oh' some anti leave others, who pvrlmps would he muriliiug to
stay if their strength was diminished. 0n the other hand, I told them I came to
establish them there, not to remove them; and then _I let them know that .I had
51")"5--'5llb ""151" m0 relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been at. a great>>
charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their convenient-e. as
their defence; and that. I had such particular persons with me, as well to increase
and recruit their number, as by the particular necessary employment): which they
were bred to, being artifiecrs, to assist. them in those things in which at present
they were to seek.3 .-FH.'-x'--nvr... ., ._ c _ "Why"?

ADVENTURES OF nomrson (nurson

They were all together when I talked thus to them: nntl before I dalirored
in them the stores I had brought, i asked than), one by one, if they had
pmircly forgot and hnrind't'nn first nnhnosities that, had hnnn among tin-in, and
could filial") hands with one another, land engage in a strict friendship and
union of interest, so that there might. be no more misumlerstmidings or
jealomio'.

W" liam Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said, they
had met with nfilicrions enough to mnkn them all. sober, and enemies enough to
male>> them all friends: that for his part. he would live and die With them ; and was
so farfmm designing any. thing against the Spaniards, that he owned thcv land
(lone nothing to him but what his own had humour made necessary, and whim he
would have done, and perhaps much worse, in their case; and that. he would ask
them pardon, if I Llosirerl it, for the foolish and hmzish things he had done in
them ; and was ray willing)r and desirous of living on terms of entire. friendship
nnd union with them ; and would do any thing that lay in his power to convince
them of it: and m for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither
these twenty years.

The Spaniards said they-had indeed at. first disarmerl and excluded William
Atkins and his two cornxt.r_\rimn, for their ill condrmt, as they had let mo. know--
nnd they appealed (n me for the necessity they were under in do so--hut. that
William Atkin: haul behaved himself so bravely in the great fight they haul with
the ravages, and on several 0 ions since, and haul showed himself so faithful to,
mid concerned for, the. general inlm'nst of them all, that they hail forgotten all
that was past, and thought he merited as much to be trrutml with zirms, and
nuppliml with necwsnries, as any of them: and that they hurl testified their satin.
facrion in him, by committing the command to him, next to the governor himself ;
and a>> they hntl an entire confidence. in him and all his countrymen, so they
Minion-lodged they lmrl merited that confidence by all the methods that. honest
men could merit to he valued and ll'llSllth; and they most liosntily embraced the
occasion of giving me [his assurance, that they would never have any interest.
scpnrntc from one another.

Upon (hose frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed the next
(la. to dine all together; and, indeed, we maul: a splendid feast. I caused the
ship's cool: and his mate to come on shore and (brass onr dinner, and the old cook's
mate we had on shore nssislml. W'e brought on shore six pieces of 2good beef,
and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision, with our punch bowl, and.
material's to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret,
and ten bottles of English beer--things that neither the Spaniard: nor the
Englishmen had tasted for many y 4, and which, it may he supposed, they none
exceedingly glad of.

The Spaniards arlrlr-zl In our feast fire whole kids, which the cooks roasted;
and three of them were sent, covered up Close, on board our ship to the seamen,
that they might. foast on fresh meat from on shore, as we (lid with their snlt meat
from on board. '

359ADVEK'I'URES or mmmson' clmson.

 

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, 1 brought out my
cargo of goods, wherein, that there might he no dispute about dividing, I showed
them that there was sulliricnt for them all _: and desired that the}: might all mice
a Sm equal quantity of the goods that were for Wearing; that. is to say, equal when
l 3"le up. A: first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them four
1 shim ; and, at the Spunim'ds' rcqucsf, Mini-wards mnde them up six: these war:
' exceedingly conifoltsble lo lhcm, having been what, as I may suy, they had long
since forgot the use of, o;- whut h was to wear them.

i allotted the thin English srufis, which I mentioned before, to minke every one
3 light cont like a. frock, which I jinlgul lill t for the limb of the season, cool and
, . loose; and ordered, that Whenever they (let. 'ed, they should. make more, as they

I thought fit. The like for pumps, shoes) stockings, nnd hats, 6210..

 

     

 

7

 

I cannot express what pleasure: what, $5!tisifi'nttlionz sat upon the conntenancas
of all these poor man when they saw the cure I had taken 0f thom. and how well
1 had furnished them. They told me I was a father to them: and than, having
a correspondent us I was, in so remote a. part. of the world, it would make them i .
forget. thnt they were left in n (lasolnlc place; and they all voluntarily engaged : l
to me not to leave the place without my consent.

Then I presented to them (ha people I haul bmuglit with me, particularly the if
W101; the smith, and the two carpenters, all of thc-m most nmessm'y pmple; hut '
above all, my general artifice; than "ham they could not name anything that was
more nceilful to them; and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to wax-l:immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one :1 shirt the first thing he
did; and, which was still more, he taught the women not only how to sew nml
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for their
husbands, and for all the rest.

As for the osn'pentm's, l scarce need mention how useful they were: for thy
took in pieces all my clumsy nnhandy things, and made them clevm' convenient

tables, stools, betlstomls: caphom'ds, lockom, shakes, and every thing they wmxlml
of that. kind.

But to let them sou how nature made artificm's at first, I curried the
carpenters Io nee'"7iiiia|1i Alhiu's builtetvhousc, as I called it. and tltev both

owned they never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity hefure, nox- any
thing so regular, and so hamlily built, at. least. of its kind; and one of them,
when he saw it, after musing a gnml while, turning about: to Inc--""1 am sure,"
sag-she, "that man has: no need of us; you need do nothing but. give him
tools."

Then I bmnght. them cut all my store 01' tools, anu gave every man a digging
spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no barrows or pioughs; and to every

separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a bmztd--nxe, and a saw ; always uppaiming, that
 

ss often as thev woic b1okc11, or worn out, they should he suppliyl,wnl1out.
gri' dying, out of- the gene oral slows that I lefi: behind.

Nail: staples, hinges, hammers, cl1iscls,lu1ives, aciaams and all sorts of tools
and 11'1011-1101k, thev had Without t11il, as thev required; for 110 1111111 would cure to
1 he mow than he waited and 1111, must he :1. tool that would waste or spoil them
on :uw- account wl 31:c1;.cr \nd for the use of the smith, 1 left two 1011301'
11:1" 1'ozwl1l1ron for a supply.

M1. nmaazine of powder 11111111311111 which 1 hmught Ilhem was such even 1;)
profusion, dist they could 1101: but rcioice at them; {or now they could mnerrlx, 11s
I used to do, wil.' .1 n musket upon each shoulder, if 'here was ocoasion, and 11 816
able to fight a thousand $111 agea, if they 111111 but some little ach- zmtagos ol situation,
which also they could 11m: miss of if they had occasion.

I carried on shore with 1110. the young; man whose mother was stirred to death,
11.111ltl1e11mid also: 5.111 11:15 :1 sober, well-edumiled, fili'zious mung wonmn, and
behaved so inoli'c11..ivclv,tlzst or cry one gave hm- a <<011110110111 She had,
indeed, 1m unhappy to with us, there being no woman in the ship l: at herself ;
but she here it with pntiunce. Aftm' 11. while, seeing things so well o1'de1 c1]. :11'1'
in so fine :i'wm ol' tlu'iv ingz upon 111v1sl'md1111d considering that 1111117 had neither
business no): acquaintance in the East Indies, 1101' reason for taking so lona :1
VO'I':l_'Y6'--'I say, connidoring all this,hotl1 of them came to me, and desired I would
give them law/em iunaiu on the island,11.nd he entered among my fan11ly,1
they called it.

I agreed to it readily, and they had 21 little plot of ground allotted to them,
where they had three tents or houses Sci. 1111, surrounded with n basket-work
paliisndc, like Atkine's, and adjoining to his plantation. Their tents were con-
tri'aed so, that they had each of them 11 room, a part to lodge in, 111111 :1. middle
lent, like a grant storehouse, to 11151 all iltcir goods in, and to cut and drink in.
And now the 0 .her two Englishmen moved their ha'uilnlion to the same place,
11111 so the island was divided into three co.onies, and no more; 1131112111, the
Spaniards, with old Friday and the first servants, 111 my old 11 abilatiou under the
hill, which was , in sword the capital city, and where they had so enlarged and
.xtended their works, as well under as on the outside of the hill, that. they lived,
llmugh perfectly concealed, 121: full at large. Never wns there such a little city
1'11 :1 wood, and so hid, I believe, in any pm": of the world ; for I verily believe 11
thousand men might have mngcd the island :1. 1111011111, and if they had not known
there was such :1 thing, and looked on purpose for it, they would not have found

;fo1.'thet1'ees stand so thick and no clo=e~ 81nd grow so fast matted into one
another, that. nothing but cutting them 11- 1111 first could discmer the place, except
the two narrow entrances, where they went in and out, could he found, which
was not very easy. 0111.1 of them was just down at the water's edge, on the sidc
of the creel: ;- and it was afterwards above two hundred yards to the place; and
the other was up the ladder 1'11. twins, 11s I have 1d1'cemlyforn1erly described it; and
they had a large wood thick planted, also, on the trip of the bill, which contained
above an acre, which grew 111nm, and cove-ml the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easy Lo he discovered to
enter on that side.

The other colon}; was that of Will Atkins, where there were four firmilics ol'
Englishmen, I mean those I hail left there, with gheir "vim; and children;
three savages tlmt wore slaves; the widow and children 05' the Englishman:
that was killed; the young, man aurl the maid; and (by the way 'we made a.
wife of her ain't) before we Went away. There were also the two carpenters
and (he tailor, whom I brought: 3 h me For them; also the smith, who was a.
very necessary man to them, especially as the gunsauith, to take care of their
arms; and my other mun, whom 1. called "Jack of all trap. w 1'.) was him-
sell' as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only :1 v0 ingenious
follow, but a very merry fellow ; and before I went mi. ', we in .ed him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in. the ship, whom I. mcmionml
before. .

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say snmelhing ol'
the French ecclesinslio that I haul brought with me out of the ship's crow
whom I tool: at sea It is true, this man was :1. Roman; nml pm'llllilfi ii. I"
give ofi'enco to some hereafter if I leave anything extraordinary upon record
02" a man, whom, before I bag 4, I must. (in set him out in just colours)
represent in terms \81'yluuth to his disuclvautsge in the account of Protestanis;
as, first, that he was :1 Parish; secondly, a I'opish priest; and thirdly, a French
Popish priest.

But justice demands of me to give him a due character; and I must ' 1; he
was a. grave, sober, pious, and most religious person; exact in h 'c, exten-
sire in his clim'lh', and exemplary in almost every :11! g h: (Iii. What. then,
can one say 9.5 mist my being very sensible ol' lhe value cl" such a man,
llfllu'itlzstandlng his profession, though it may he my ophiion, perhaps, :is well
an the oyinion ol" others who shall read this, that he was mistaken 'r'

The first hour that. I began to converse Willi him, nl'lcr he had agreed to
go with me to film East Indiesfl l'ouml mason to delight exceedingly in his
conversation; and he first. began with me about religion, in the most obliging
manner imaginable.

" Sir," says he, " you have not only, under God," (and at that he sserl
his brcssi) "saved my ' but you have admitted me to 54:.) (his royn e in
your ship, and by your obliging civility have taken me into you? lhmilr',
givingme an upporl'uniiy of free conrers :ion. Now, sir," says he, " you 50.0
by my liulvit wlmt my profession is, and l guess by your nation u-'haf yours is.
I may ihi " i2. is my duty, and. (loul; less it. 53 so, to use my utmnst endeavours
on all occasions to bring all the souls tho: I can to the lmowlege ol' "to 1.9m 1! ,
and to embrncc the Catholic doctrine ' In]. as I am here under your permission:
and in your fiimily,1 am hound, in jun .u to your kindness: a5 "'1'" as in
decency and good manners, to be un'lur your government; and therefore I
shall not, without your leave, enter into any debates on, the points of religion
in which we may not agree, (hrhhcr than you shall give me leave."

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
 

 

    

 

 

 

.153
I In!!! him, his carriage was so modest that I could not but acknowledge it;
that it was true, we were auch people as they call herotirs, hut that he was
not the first Catholic that I haul convorsed with without {idling into any
inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he
should not find himself the worse used for being of a dili'ercnt opinion from us;
and it" we did not converse without any dislike on either side, upon that scum,
it would he his. fault, not ours.

He replied, that he. thought our conversation might be e'siiy separated
from disputes; that it was not his business to cap principles with every man
he discourscd with; and that. he rather desired. me to converse with him as a
gentleman than as "hymn; that if [would give him leave at any timu to
discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily comply with it; and than
he did not. doubt but I would allow him also to defend his own opinions as well
as he could; but that, without my learn, he would not break in upon me with
any such thing.

He told me further, that he would not cease to do all that became him in
his ofiice as u. priest, us well as a private Christian, to procure the good ol' the
ship, and the safety ol' all that was in her; and though, perhaps, we would not
join with him, and he could. not pray with us, he liOliCd he might pray for us,
which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner we conrersod; and
as he was of a most obliging gentleman--like behaviour, 25:; he was, if I may he
allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, us I believe, of grant learning.

He gave me a most diverting account. of his life, and of the many extra-
ordinary events of it--ol'mnny adventures which had hut'ullc-n him in the firw
years that he had been abroad in the world; and particularly this was Very
remarkable, namely, tlmt during the voyage he was now engaged in, he had
the misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipperl, and never to go to the
place wither any of the ships he was in were at. first designed; that his first
intent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went on hoard a ship bound
thither at St. Halves; but being forced into Lisnou in bail weather, the ship
received some damage by running aground in the. mouth of the river Tagus,
and was obliged to unload hm: cargo there; that finding a Portuguese ship
there, bound to the )iadeiras, and ready tn sail, and supposing he should
easily meet with a vessel there bound to Martiniuo, he went on hoard in order
to sail to the Matleiras; but the master of the Portuguese ship, being but an
indifereut mariner, had been out in his reckoning, and they drove to F ynl;
where, however, he happened to find a very good market, for his cargo, which
was corn, and therefore resolved not to go to the )'Inrleiras, but. to loud salt at
the isle of May, to go away to Newfoundland. He had no rained" in the
exigence but to go with the ship, and had a. pretty good v re us far as the

 

 

Banks (50 they call tlin place where they catch the fish), where meeting with
a French ship bound from France to Quebec, in the river or Canada, and 11'01"]

thence to Martinico, to carry pro one, he thought he should have an
opportunity to complete his first. design. But when he came to Quebec, theq-fi'gkifivfi- wfihfiwmfifimufm . -- "A": .. ,..-.g<:4SSm'r(-r'w:"\1r~'!gv}(fl'='?

~ :-
ADVENTURES Oh' ROBINSON CRUSI'fl-Z. $

 

 

 

 

muster ol' the ship died, mad the e p proceeded no further. So the next
voyage he shippcii himself for France, in the ship that was burnt when we
took them up at sea, and then shipped them With us for the East Indies, as 1
have alrcsdy said. Thus he had been disappointed in live voyages, all, as I
may call it, in mm voyage, besides what I shall have occasion to mention
furl-her of the same person.

But I shall not make digressions inLn other men's stories, which have no
relation to my own. 1 return 9.!) what concerns our affairs in the island. He
Cami: to me one morning, for be lodged among us all the while we were upnn
the island, and it lmppcncd to be just when I was going to visit the. English-

 

  

 

man's colony at'thc farthest part of the island--I say, he came to me, and mid
me, "'if-h 0 Very grave countenance, that he had 1hr two or three dz ys desiruil
an opportunity of some disconrsu with me, which he hoped would. not he
disyle'aging to me, because he llmught it. might, in some mensnre, corrvspond
with my general design, which was the prosperity of my now colony; and
perhaps mightput it, at least; more. than he yet lhought it WES: 5" "I"- WEUI' 0f
God's blessing.

.I looked a little surprised at the last. part of this discourse, and turning a,
little short, " How, sir," said I, "can it he said that. we are not: in the way of
God's blessing, after such visible assistances and weirdo-Hill deliveranccs as we
have seen here,~ and of which I have given you :0, large account?"

" If you had pleased, sir," sairl he, with a world of modesty, and yet will.anvnxrunfis or ROBINSON (tremors.

great readiness, " to have heard me, you would have found no room to have
been displeased, much less to think so hard of me, that I should suggest that
you have not had wonderful assistance: and deliveranccs ; and I hope, on your
behalf, that. you are in the way of God's blessing, and your design is exceedingly
good, and will prosper. But, sir," said he, "though it were more so than is
even possible to you, yet there may be some among you that are nul: equally
right in their actions; and you know that in the story of hired, one thnn in
the camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned his hand so against:
them, that thirty ix of them, though not concerned in the crime, were the
objects of divine vengeance, and hora the weight of that. punishment."

I was nensihly touched with this discourse, and told him his inference v as
so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and. was really no religious in
its own nature, that I was very sorry I lied interrupted him, and begged him
to go on; and, in the meantime, because it seemed that, what we had both to
say might take up some time, I told him I was going to the Englishman's
planinLion, and asked him to go with me, and we might discourse of it by the
way. He told me he would more. willingly wait. on me thither, because there,_
partly, the thing was acted which he desired to speak to me about. So we.
walked on, and Iprcsscd him to be free and plain with me in what. he had
to any.

" Why, then, sir-fears he, "be pleased to give me leave to lay down a
few propositions as the foundation of whatl have to say, that we m not
differ in the general principles, though we may he of some difi'eriug o_unions
in the practice of particulars. First, sir, though we rlill'cr in some ol' the
doctrinal articles of religion (and it. is very unhappy that if, is so, especially in
the case l'iel'ore us, as 1 shall show al'terwarda), yet: rlicm' are some gmcral
principles in which we both agree, namely, first, that there is a. God, and that
this God, having given us some stated general rules for our ucrviua and
obedience, we ought not willingly and knnvringl}.r to oii'encl him, either by
neglecting to do what he. has commanded, or by doing what he has expressly
PS3rl)irldcn; and let our diEerent- religions be \vlmi'. they will, this general
principle is readin owned by us all, that the blessing of God does no:
ordinarily follow a presumptuous ginning against his command; and every
good Christian will be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under
his care living in a total neglect ofGod and his cnmmands. It is not your
men being Protestants, whatever my opinion may' he of such, that discharges
me from lacing concerned l'or- ihcir souls, and from endeavouring, it" it lies
before me, that they should live in as little distance from, and enmity with,
their Maker as possible, especially if you give me leave to meddle so i'ariu
your circuit."

1 could not yetimaginc what he aimed at, and told him I granted all he had
said} and thanked him that he would so far Concern himself for us; and limggu'd
he would explain the particulars of what he had observed, that, like Joshua
('0 take his own parable) I might- put away the accnrsed thing from us.
" Why, then, sir," says he, "I will who the liberty you give me; and there
are three thin"; which, if I am rigln, must slaml in the 11,11r of Gal's blessiuy
11 pcn your cndcavoms here, and which I should 1cjoicc, for _~,ou1. snlce and their
own, 1:0 soc 1o111o1'outl. Anal sir, '91111-3 he, "I promise lnv self that )0" will
fully agree 1': izh me in them all as soon as I name them, esnccinllv because 1
shall con1 111cc you. that over 1 one of 1l1c1n1nay,11'i1.- great case, and W1}? much
to your sniisl'nction, ho remedied."

He gave me no leave to put in any more civilitics. but went o11:-----" First.
sir, " savs he, " you have here four Enrlishmr' ,11, who have fetched women from
among the sqragc>>, and have taken them as their wixos, andhnvo had many
children by them all, and yet are not mauled to them nficr any slated lca 1l
manner, as the lows of God. and man require; a11(l,thcrofor1':, are 1-'ct,i111l1e
501150 01' both, no less than adullorers, nml llVlll'J; 1n adnllol'y. To this, sir '
5:11 5 he, "' 1 know 3011 will object that there was no clorgvnmn or priest of .mV
kind, or of anv profession, to perform the ceremonv; no: any pen anrl inl1, or
1,511.1" , to mite down a contract of marriage, and have it signed between them.
111111 I know also, sir, wind. the Spaniard governor has told you--J, 1111:1111 of 1.111;
agreement that he obliged them to make when he tool: those women, namely,
11:13am); should choose them out by consent, and lump separately 101111-111;

1, by the way is nothing of 11. 111an~iage, no flgruexuent with the women
as wires, 11111, only an agreement among thmnselvos to keep them from
quurrclling

"' But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being
11 1101111111,) consists not only 111 the 111111411111 consent of_tl1c parties to take one
another :13 mm 11nd oil's, but in the formal and legal obligmicn that therc' 19
in the contract to compel the 1111111 111111 woman at all times to own and acknow-
lrclzgo each other--~oblining the man to nhslain from all other women, to engage
in no other contract while these subsist; and, on all occasions, as nbillly allows,
{a pxovirlc honcslly for them and 1.11111 children , and to oblige the women to the
same, or like conditions, on their side.

"New, sir," says he, " those men may, when they please, or when occasion
11181811111, abandon these women, disown their children, lea-c them to perish,
11.1111 take other women and marrv them whilst these are living. " And here he

added, with son 10 1111111111), " l-low, sir, is God honoured in this unlawful

_ liberty? And how shall a. blessing succeed. your endeavours in this place,l1ow-

ever good in themselves, and however sincere in your design, while these men

who ai present are your subjects mrler your ahsolute government and
dominion, are allowed by yon to live in open adultery?"

I confess I was struck at the thing itself, but much more with the con--

' vincing arguments he supported it with. For it- was cerininly true, that though
they had no clorgymen on the spot, yet. :1. formal contract. on both sides, made
before witnesses, and confirmed by any when which they had all agreed to ho
bound by, though it had been but the breaking of a. stick between them,
engaging the men to own these women for their wives upon all Occasions, andand never to abandon them or their children, and the women to the same wiLh
their husbands, had been an effectual lawful murriuge in the sight of God; and
it. was a great neglect that it was not done. .

But I thought to have gotten ofi' with my young priest by telling him that
all that part was clone when I was not here; and they had lived so many years
with them now, that if it was adultery, it. was. past. remedy, they could do
nothing in it now. _ .

" Sir," says he, "' asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in
this---that it being done in your absence, you rould not he charged with thnt
part of the crime. But I beseech you, flatter not. yourself that you are In>>
Iherel'ore under an obligation in (In ~rmn' uttermost now to put. an end to it.
How can you think, bu: that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt
for tho. future will lie entirely upon
you? Because it is certainly in vom-
power now in pill- an end to it, and
in nohn(l_y's power but yours."

I was so dull still,llmt I did not
take him right, but I imagined that,
by putting an end to it he- meant
Ihm: I should part them, and not
suffer them to live together any
longer, and I said to him I could
not do that by any means, for that
i: would put the whole island in
runihsion. He seenmdsurprisedthat
I should so fur mistake him. " No,
sir," says he, " I do not mean that
you should Separate (hem, 1m!
legally'nnd efi'ecumlly marry them
nmv. And, sir, as my way or" marrying may not he so easy to rccmmlh) them
lo, though il. will he as ufihcmnl, even by your own laws, so your way may
he as well hef'ore Grad, and. as valid mnong men--l mean by a written contract
signed by hnth man and woman, and by all the witnesses present, which all the
laws of Europe would decree lo be valid."

1 was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity ol'zeul,
besides the unusal impartiality in his discourse as to his own party or church,
and such :1. true warmth for the proserving people that he hncl no knowledge 05'
ur relation l.o----I say, for preserving them from trnnsgmssing the laws of" God
--ihe like ofwhich I had indeed not met. with anywhere. But: recollecting
what he had said of marrying them by a written contract. which I knew wnnhl
stand 100,1 returncdithnch upun him, and told him I granted all that. he had said
to he just, and on his part very hind; that l would. discourse with the men
upon the point nmv when I came to them. And I knew no reason why they
shquld surnple to let him marry them all: which I knew well enough would{0535'

be granted to he as Authentic and valid in England, as if they were married by
one of our own clergyman. Vtht was nflcrwm'ds done in this matter, I shall
speak of by itself.

(The CnnrmlrmJ

I then pressed him to tell me what was tim second complaint which he had
to make, ncknqwledging I was very much his debtor for the first, mid ,thanked
him heartily for it. He mid me he would use the same fi'cqgic-m and piaimwas
5,3,... rm 'vm .i . "m; :m' ..,'r.--1_ . ,

Aiwi-m'mmcs or nonmsox crimson.

in the second, :u.(l hoped Iwould take it as well; and this was that notwith-
standing these English subjects of mine, as ho callsxl them, had lived with thoso
women for almost seven yam-s, and had taught them to speak English, and oven
to rend it, and that. they were, as he perceived, women of tolerable understand-
ing, and capable of instruction, yet they had not to this hour tuugh: them any
thing of the Christian religion; no, not so- much as to know that there was a
(ind or a, worship, or in what. manner God was to to be served; or that their
own idolatry, and worshipping they knew mt whom, \v as false and absurd.

This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly
call them to an account for; and, perhaps, at last take the work out of their
hands. He spoke thisvcry afi'ectionmoly and warmly. . {Flinn pmsnaxled,"
says he, -" had those men lived in the savage 'couutry wheucnllheir wires came,
the. 5:1 rages would have mkeu more pains to have brought them talk: idnla tors,
and to worship the devil, than arty 'ol? these men, so far _a'_s I csm see, has taken
with them to much then) the knowledge of the true God. Now, sir," said he,
"though Itla not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we slauuld be
all gla-l to s the devil's servants, and the suhieets of, his kingdom, taught to
know the oral px'iuuiylesof ithe- Christ-inn religion--that they might at least
hear of God, and of a Reflccmer, mid ol' the resurrection, and of a future state,
things which 'we all believe--they haul. at least hech"so much nearer coming
into the bosom of the true church, than they are nor in the public profession
ol'idolutry and devil-worshi-gi"

I could hold no longer; I'tool: him in my firms, _and embraced him with.
an excess of passion. " How far," Isaicl .l to him, " have I been From under-
standing the mostfisscnlinl part of a Christian, namely, to love the interest of
am church, and: the good of other men's souls! I scarce hnve known
what belongs to being n.0hristimi."--~"0h, sir, do not so}- so," replied he;
"' this thing is nol, _v ur- fault."'--'-" N03 said 1". " Bul- why did I Never lay it to
heart. as well as 1:0 --" his not too late yet," said he; " be not too forward to
condemn yoursell " But whs'xt' can he done now?" said I; " you see I am
going mvay."~---" Wil you give me leave," said he, "to talk with these ponr
men about it i"----" Yes, with all my heart," said I, " and I will oblige them to
girchccrl 1:0 what: you say too."-----"'As to that," said he, " we must leave them to
the mercy of Christ; but it is our business to assist thou], encourage them, and
instruct them : and il'you will give me leave, and God his blessing, l do not doubt
but llm poor ignorant souls shall be brought home into the great circle of
0hr tinnily, is" not into the pm'lieular {him that we all embrace; and that even
while you stay here." Upon this I said, "I shall not. only give you lenVe, but
give you a thousand thanks for . it." "Ural: lbllowed on this account I shall
mention also again in its pl'ncc. '

I ndw prossGd him for the third article in which we were to blame. "Why,
really," says he, "' it is of the same nature, and 'I will proceed (asking your
leave), with the same plnimiess as before: it. is about your poor savages yonder,
who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It is 1L maxim sir, that is, or

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

370
 

eight to be, received among all Christians, of what church or pretended church
soever, namely, that. Christian knowledge ought to he propagated by all possible
means, and on all possible ooonsions. It is on this principle that: our church
sends misxionm-ios into Persia, India, and China; and that our clergy, even of
the superior sort, willingly engage in the most. hazardous voyage, and the most.
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to teach them the know-
ledge ot' the true God, and to bring them over to embrace the Christian faith.
Now, sir you have an opportunity here to have six or seven-and-tliirty poor
savages brought. over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and
Redeemer, that I wonder how you can puss by such nu occasion of doing good,
_ which is really worth the expense of a. man's whole life."
I was now struck dumb, indeed, and had not one word to my; I had here
a spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me, let his particular
principles he of what kind soover. As for me, Ihud not so much nseizlormiuml
a thought of this in my heart before, and I believe should not have thought of
it: for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and people whom, had we nny
Work for them to do, we would have used as such, or would have been glad to
have transported them to any other part of the world; for our business was to
get rid of them, and we would all have been satisfied if they had been sent
to any counlry, so that they had never seen their own. But to the case: I
say I was confounded at his discourse, and knew not what answer to make him.
He looked earnestly at uni, seeing me in some disorder: " Sir," said he, "I
shall be very sorry it what I hnvo said given you any oil'ence."------" No, no,"
said 1, " i am oll'ended with nobody but myself; but 1am perfect] y confounded,
not only to think that I should never take any notice of this before, but with
reflecting what notice I tun able to take of it now. You know, sir," said I,
"what circumstances [ am in: I am bound to the East. Indies. in a. ship
freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an insufferable piece of
injuiaticc to detain their ship here, the men lying all this while :11. victualn and
wages upon the owncrs' account. It is true, I agreed to he allowed twelve
days here, and if I s" :7 more I must pay three pounds sterling per day
demurrage; nor am I .. :1}; upon demurrngo shove eight (lnys more, and l have
been lmro thirteen days already; so that I an perioctly nnnblc to engage. in
this work, unless I. would snfi'er myself to he left behind here again: in which
case, if this single ship should miscarry in any part of her voyage, I should he
just in the same condition that I was left in here at. first, and from which I have
been so wonderfully delivered."

He owned the nose was very hnrd upon me as to my voyage, but laid it
home upon my conscienae whether the blessing of saving soren-and--thirty
souls was not worth my venturing all I had in the world for? Iwas not so
sensible of that as ho was, and I returned upon him thus: " Why, sir, it is a.
valuable thing indeed to he an instrument. in God's hands to convert seven-
nnd-t'nirty heuthons to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecclen' '
and are given over to that work, so that it seems naturally to full into the wayAuvnxrunus or nomnso'x Cnl'Zflom.
of your profession, how is it then that you do not ruther offer yourself to
undertake it, than press me to it?"

Upon this he fliced about, just hcl'oro me, as he walked along, and putting
me to a full stop, made me a, very low- how: "I most heartily thank God, and
you, sir," says he, "for giving me so evident a call to so blessed 9. work; and if
you think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will
mostrcadily do it, and think it a happy reward for ail the hazards and dim-
ouliins of such a broken, disnppoimerl voyage as l have met with, that I have
dropped at last. into so glorious a. work."

i discovered at kind of rupture in h is face while he spoke this to me; his eyes
spurkled like fire, his face glowed, and his colour come mid went as if he land
been falling into iitsain a word, he was fired with Lhe joy of being embarked
in such a work. I paused a conaideruble while before I could tell what. to say
to him. for I was really surprised to find a man of such sincerity and zeal, and
carried out in his zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men, not of hi>> profession
only, but even ol' any profession whatsoever. lint after I had considered it a.
while, I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that ho would venture,
on the single conaidel'ution of an attempt. on those poor people, to he looked up
in an unplanted island for perhaps his life, and at last might not hnow whether
he should he oble to do them any good or not?

He turned short upon me and asked me what I called a. venture? " Pray,
Sh)" said he, " what do you think 1 consented to go in your. Sp to the East
Indies [in 9"--" Nay," said I, " that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians."---"Doubt-less it was," said he, "'and do you think if I can convert
these seven-and-thirtyqnen to the faith of Christ it is not worth my time,
though I should never be fetched oi? the island again ? Nay, is it not infinitely
of more worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the life of twenty more.
ol' the same profession? " Yes, sir," says he, "I would give Christ and the
Blessed V irgin thanks all my days if I could be made the least- happy instru-
ment. of saving the souls of these poor men, though I was never to set my foot-
ofi' this island, or see my native country any more. But since you will honour
me," says he, " with putting me into this work (for which I will pray for you all
the days of my life), I have one humble petition to you," says he " besides."--
" Whutis that 2' " said I. " Why," says he, " it is that. you will leave your man
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me; for without
some help I cannot speak to them,_or they in me."

I was sensibly touched 11!. his requesting Friday; because I could not lhink
of parting with him, and that for many reasons. He had been the companion
of my trnvnls: he was not. only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the
135: dog-rec, and I had resolved to do something considerable for him if he
outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then I know {hot as I had bred
Friday up to he a Protestant, it would quite confound him to bring,, him to
embrace another prolession; and he would never, while his eyes were open,
believe that his old master was a heretic, and would be damned, and this
 

might. in the and ruin the 9301' fellow's principles, and so turn him back again
to his first idolatry.

However, nsnddnn thought. relieved me in (his strait, and it. was this: I
t-nld him I could not say that I was willing to part, with 1'};qu on any account
whatever; though n work that to him was of morn value than his life, ought
tn me to be of much more value than the keeping or parting with a servant.
But, on (he. other hand, i was persuaded that Friday would by no means
consent to part wiLh me _: and than, to force him to it without his consent, would
he manifest ilUllSi.lCc. because I had promised I would never put him away, and
he had promised and engaged to me that he would never learn me unless I put
him away.

He seemed very much concerned a: it, for he had no rational access to these
poor People: seeing he did not widcrslnnd une word of their langnngc, nur they

 

one word of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had
learned Spanish, which I found he also understand, mid he should serve him for
an intcrpreter; so he was much hotter satisfied, and nothing could pcrsnsdc
him but he would stay to endeavour to convert. them; but Providence gave
another and very happy turn to all this.

I come back nun- to the first pnrt of his objections. Vth we came in the
Englishmen, [ sent for them all together, and afier some accounts given thr-m of
what Iliad done fin: them, namely, what necessary things I had provided for
them, and how they were distributed, which they were sensible of, and very
thankful for. I began to talk to them oi'the Scandalous lif'c they led, and gave

mfirmm" vr--Wrrm-rtv:

    

 

 

laAnvnN'riTnns or nonmsox (unison.

them a full account of the notice the clergyman had already taken of it, and
arguing how unchristinn and irreligions a life it was, I first asked, if they were
married men or bachelors? They soon explained their ccndilion to me, and
showed me that two of them were \vidowers and. the other three were single
men or bachelor's. I asked them with what conscience they could take those
women, and lie with them as they lind done, call them their wives, and have so
many children by them, and. not ha married lawfully to them?

They-all gave me the answer that I expected, namely, that there was nobody
to marry them; that they agreed hol'ore the governor to keep them as their
wives, and to keep them and own them as their wk and they thought, as
thin ' stood with them. they were as legally married as if they had bccnmurried
by a person, and with all the formalities in the world

I told them, that no doubt. they were married in the sight of' God, and were
bonndin conscience to keep them as their wives; but that the laws of men
being olhorwise, they might. pretend they were not married, and so desert- the
poor women and children hereafter, and that their wives, being poor, desolate
women, fricndless and money-less, would have no way to help themsols es: I
therefore told them, that unless I was sure of their honest intent, I could do
nothing for them, but would take care that what 1. did should he 'l'm.' tho
wuaicn and children without them; and that unless they would. give some
assurances that they would marry the womcn,l could not think it was con-
venient they should continue together as man and wife; for that: it was hath
scandalous to men and oil'enaive to God, who they could not think would bless
them il' they went. on thus. .

All this passed as I expected; and they told me, especially Will Atkins,
who seemed now to speak for the rest, that the); loved ihcir wives as well as if
the); had been born in their own native country, and would not leave them
upon any account. whatever; and they did verily believe their wires were as
virtuous :uid as modest, and did," the. utmost of their skill, as nine-l: l'or tliem
and for their children as any women could possibly do, and they would not hart
with them on any account: and Will Atkins. for his own particular, added if
any man would take him away, and Ode: to carry him home to England,
and to make him captain of the best manor-war in the navy, he would
not go with him if he might not carry his wife and children Will'- him; and if
there was a clorgynmn in the ship, he would be married to her now with all
his heart.

This was just as I would have it. The priest was not. with me at that
moment, but was not for 03'. So, to try him further, I told him I had a
clergyman with me, and if he was asineere, I would have him married like next
morning, and bade him consider of it, and tall: with the rest. He said, as for
himself, knew. not. consider of it at all, for he was very ready to do it, and
was glad I had a minister with me; and he believed they would be all willing
also. I then told him that my friend the minister was a. Frenchman, and could
110* speak English, but that I would act the clerk between them. He never so

374
 

much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, which was, indeed,
what I was afl'aid of, but, I say, they never enquired about it. So we period;
I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his com-
panions. I desired the French gentleman not to say anything to them till the
business was thorough ripe, and I told him what. answer the mint had given me.
Before I went from their quarter, they all conic to me, and told me their had.
been considering what I haul said ; that they were very glad to hear that [had a
clergyman in my company; and they were willing to give me the satisfaction
I desired, and to be formally married as soon as ], pleased, for they were far
from desiring to part from their wives, and that they meant nothing; lint what
was: very honest when they chose them. So I unpointed them to meet me the
next morning, and that in the meantime they should. let their wives know the
meaning of the marriage law: and that it was not only to prevent any scandal,
but also to oblige them that they should not forsake them whatever might
happen.

The women were" easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and
were. very well satislityl with il', as, indeed, they had reason to he; so they
failed not to attend all together at my apartment next morning, where I
brought out my clergyman; and. though he had not on a minister's gown,
after the manner of England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of
Fran: , yet, having a blank vest, something like a casseek, with a sash round.
it, he did not look- vory unlike a minister; and as for his language, I was
interpreter. .

But. the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and. the seruple he made of
marrying the women because they were not. hartised and yrol'cssc--d Christians,
gave them an exceeding reverence for his pereon; and there was no need, after
that, to enquire. whether he was a cloa'gpnaa or no.

Indeed, I was afraid his scrnplewould have been carried so far as that he
would not hava 'marrierl. them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to
any to him, he resisted me, though modestly yet very steadily, and at last
refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had first talked with the men and
the women too; and though at iirst I was a. little backward to it, yet at last I
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerityr of his design.

W hen he came to them he let them know that I had acquainted him with
their circumstances, and. with the present design; that he was very willing to
perform that part of his function, and marry them as I had desired, but that,
before he could do it, he must take the liberty to tall: with them. He told
them that in the sight of all different men, and in the sense of the laws of
society, they had lived all this while in an open adnltery, and that it was true
that nothing but the consenting to marry, or efectnally separating them from
one another now, could put an end to it; but there was a difficulty in it too,
with respect to the laws ol' Christian matrimony,whieh he was not fully satisfied
about, namely, that. of marrying one that is a. professed Christian to a savage,
an idolator, and a. heathen, one that is not baptised ; and yet that he did not

375

  

l

r

.9..."

)
 

see that there was time left For it to endeavour to pursumle the women to he
baptised, or tu pmfess the name of Christ, whom they haul, he doubted, heard.
nothing of, and without which they could not he. baptised.

He told them he donbtccl they were but inclifl'ercnt Christians themselves;
11m. they had but little knowledge of God or his ways, and therefore he could
not expect that they had said much tn their wives on that head yet; but. that
unless they would promise him to use their endeavours with their wives to
parsunde them to hecmueflhristium, nncl would, as well as they could, lush-not
them in the knowlerig and belief of God that. made them, nml to worship
Jesus Christ. thnt redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he Would hm'n
no hnnd in joining Christinns with savages, nor u-'ns it consistent. with the

principles of the Christian ryligion: and was, indeed, expressly forbidden in
God's law. i

T hey heard all this V'ary attentively, and I delivered it, very fuiihi'ully to
them from his mouth as nmr his own words m. I could, only sometimes adding
something of my own, to convince them how just. in. \ms, and how I was of his
mind: and I always very faithfully distinguished between what i said from
myself, and what were the clergyman's words. They told me it was very true
what the gentleman had said, thin. they were hm: very indiil'crcnt Christians
themselves, and that they hurl never talked to their wives about religion. " Oh,
sir," says 'ill Atkins, " how should we teach them religion? Why, we know
nothing ourselves; :mrl insides, sir," snid he, " should we go to talk to them of
God, and Jesus Christ, and Heaven, and Hell, it. would be m mnhe. ihcm laugh
at us, and ask us what, we believe ourselvcs; nn'J if we should tell them weVVADV'ENTURMS or noninsox Gnu-son. ' ' 61%

believe all the-things we speak of to them, such as of goud people going to
heaven, nncl WIClmd people to the devil, they would nsl: us where we intended
to go ourselves, who believed all this and yet are such wicked fellows, as we

indeed are. Why, sir," saicl Will, "':is enough to give them a. surfeit of

religion at first hearing; folks must have some religion themselves, before
they pretend lo teach other people."--" Will Atkins," snid I to him, " lhough I
am nfrzid what you say has too much truth in it, yet can vou not tell vour
wife that she 13 in the wrong--that Lhere is n God, and a. religion best-er Vthnn
her own--that her gods nre' idols, mid that they can neither hear nor speak--
that there is a Great Being thatmade all things, that can destroy all that he has

 

made--that he rewards the goon, and punishes the bad--that we are to be
judged by him, at last, for all we do here? You are not so ignorant but even
nature itself will leach you that all this is true. nnd I am satisfied you know it
all to be true, and helieve it yourself'."---" 'l'hat's true, sir," said Atkins; " but
with what face can I say anything to my wife of all this, when she will tell me
immediately it cannot be trne ?"

" Not true I" said I. " What do you mean by that ?"---" Why, sir," said he,
" she will tell me i: cannot be true: that this God I shall tell her of can he

 

   

  

{a,uwnxrcrrs or nonmSon C'RIYSOE.

 

 

just, or can punish or rcward, since I am not: punished and sent to the devil,
thnt have been such a wicked creature, as she know; I have been, even in liar,
and to everybody else; and that 1 should in enforced to lire that lmrc been
always-noting so contrary to what I must loll her is good, and to what I ought.
to have done." _ _

"' Why, truly, Atkins," said I, "' I am aiiraiil thou spcaltcst too much truth g"
and with that 1 Im; the clergyman know what Atkins had said, For he was
impatient to know. "Oh !" said the priest, "tell him there is one thing will
make him the host. minister in the world to hi2: wife; and that is repentzuice;
for none teach repentancc like tan-a ponitonfs. He want: nothing but to rcpcnt,
and then he will he so much the better qualified to instruct his wife; he will
then he able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that, hcis the just
rewarder o __ ed and evil, but film: he is a merciful Being, and, withiniinit'a
goodness and longvsuflbring, forbears to punish those that oil'enx'l--waiting to he
gracious, and willing not the death of u sinner, but rather that he should return
and lire--that he ol'ten suffers wicked men to go on a. long time, and even
reserves damnaeion to the general (in)? of retribution--<<flint it is a clear evidence
ol-'ch and of a future state that righteous men receive not: their reward, or
wiukcd men their punishment, till they come into smother world; and this will
lend him to teach his wife tho doctrine of the reuurrcction and of the last
judgment; lcl: him but repent for himself, he will he an excellent prcnchcr of
renem'mxce to his wife."

Irepenlcxl all this to Atkins; who looked vcry serious all the while, and
who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily all'octcd with it: when,
being eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end--"I know all this,
master," says he, "and n great deal more; but I half: the impudence to talk
thus to my wife, when God and my own conscience knows, and my wife will
be an undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as il' I had never heard
of God, or a future state, or anything about it; and to talk of my repainting,
alas!" (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and I could sac that tears stood
in his eyes) "'tis past all that with roof--"Past. it, Atkiu ." said I: "what
dost. thou menu by that?"----"I know well enough what I mean, sir," says he;
" I mean it. is too late, and that is too true."

I fold the clergyman word. for Word what. he said. The poor zealous priest
(T, must call him so; for, be his opinion what it will, he had certainly n most
singular affection for the good of other men's souls; and it would he hard to
think he had not. the like for his own)---l say, this zealous, affectionate man
could not refrain tears also--hut recovering himself, he said [10 me, " Ask him
but one question: is hc easy that it is too late, or is he troubled, and wishes it
were not so F" Iput the question fairly to Atkins, and he answered with a
great deal of passion, " How could any man [)0 cosy in a. condition that certainly
must end in eternal destruction .9"

Tim clerymm shook his head with a. great concern in his face when I told

him all this, butturning quick to me upon it, said, "If that be his case, you
  
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
     

may assure him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance; and via
that are Christ's servants nre commanded to preach mercy at all times, in the
name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent-5 so that 'tis never too
late too repent."

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it seemed
an if he turned off the discourse to the rest; for he said to me he would go and
have some talk with his wife; so he. went out while, and we talked to the
rest. I perceived they were all seupidly ignorant as to matters of reiigion~~~
much as I was when I went rambling own}: from my father--and yet that. there
were none of them backward lo hear what had been said; and all of them
seriously promised that they would tall: with their wives about. it, and do their
endeavour to persuade them to turn Christians.

Upon this discourse, and the men promising to persuade their wives to
embrace Christianity, he. married the three couple; but Will Atkins and his
wife were not. yet come in. After this, the clergyman waiting; awhile, was
curious to know where Atkins had gone. and turning to me, says, " I entreul.
you, sir, let us walk out. here and look; I dsro say we shall l'unl this poor man
somewhere or other, talking seriously with his wife, and teaching her 3311'.de
something of religion. I began to be. of the some mind; so we went out
together, and I carriml him it way which none knew but. myself, find when;
{he trees were so thick 39%- as that it was not easy to see through the thicket
of leaves, and far harder to see in than to see out; when, coming to the edge
oi'ihe wood I saw Atkins and his tawny savage Wife sitting under the. shade
of a bush, very eger in discourse. I stopped short till my clergyman came up
to me, and then, having showed him where they were, we stood and looked
very steadily at them a good while.

We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up in the sun and to
every gunner of the heavens, then down to the earth, then out to the sen,
then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees. "Now," soy-s my
clergyman, "you see my words are made good; the man preaches to her.
Mark him--mow he is telling her that our God has 'mndc him, and her, and
tho heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c."--"l believe he is,"
said 1. Immediately we perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, full
clown upon his knees, and lift up both his hands; we supposed he said some>>-
thing, but we could not hear him--it was too far off for that: he (lid not
continue kneeling half a minute, but. comes and sill; down again lay his wife,
and talks to her again. We perceived then the woman very attentive, but.
whether she said anything or no we conld not tell. While the poor 'l'cllop-
was upon his knees, I could sea the tears run plentifiilly down my olergyman's
cheeks, and I could hardly forhenr myself; but it was a great. affliction to in
both that we were not. near enough to hear anything that passed between them.

Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing them; so
we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke. land
enough to us without the help of voice. He sat dorm again, a>>; I have sand,

319
 

close by her, and talked gain earnestly to her, and two or three times we
could see him embrace her passionately; another time we saw him take out
his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of
transport very unusual; and after several of these things, we saw him on a
sudden jump up again and loud her his hand to help her up, when immediately
leading her by the hand a. shop or two, they both kneelcd down together, and
continued so about two minutes.

My friend could henr it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul, St. Paul,
behold, he prnycthl" i was afraid Atkins would hear him; therefore I
eutrentcd him to withhold himself awhile, that we might. see an end of the
scene, which to me. I must. confess, was the most affecting, and yet the most.
agreeable, that everl saw in my life. This continued about half a quarter of
an hour, and then the}r walked away too; so that we could see no more of
them in that situation. _

I took this interval in talk with my clergyman; and first I told him I was
glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses to; that though I was
hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think it was all very
sincere. here, both in the man and his wife, however ignorant they both might
he; and I hoped such a beginning would have yet a more happy and: " And
who knows," said I, "hut these two ma)r in time, by instruction and example,
work upon some of. the others?" " Some of them 1" raid he, turning quick
upon me, "ay, upon all of them: depend upon it, if those two savages (for
he has heen but little better, as you relate it) should embrace Jesus Christ,
they will never leave till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is
naturally communicative, and he that is once made a. Christian will never
leave a Pagan behind him, if he can help it." I owned it was a. most
Christian principle to think so, and a. testimony of a true zeal, as well as a
generous heart in him.

As Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was over; an
we went hack our own way ; and when we came hook, we found them waiting
to he called in. Observing this, I asked the clergyman if we should discover
to him that we had seen him under the bush, or no; and il. was his opiniOn
we Should not; but, that we should talk to him first, and hear what he would
say to us; so we called him in alone, nobody being in the place but
ourselves, and. i began with him thus-4

" Will Atkins," said I, " prithce what education had you? What was your
father?"

Atkins. A better man than ever I shall he, sir ; my fatherwas n clergyman.

Crusoe. What education did he give you?

At-l-ms. He would have taught, me well,sir; but I despised all education,
instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was.

Crusoe. It is true, Solomon says, "He that dospiseth reprooi' is bl'nlish."

Atkins. Ay, sir, I was hrutish indeed ; I murdered my father: for God's
sake, sir, talk no more about. that, air--I murdered my poor father.
if

.-.

231/; >> Q's:

n
4,7.
V

 

Priest. Hal a murderer?

Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he spoke it) and
looked pale ; it seems he believed that Will had really killed his own father.

Cmsoe. No, no, sir,,I do not understand him 50. Will Atkins, wplnin
yourself : you (lid nut kill you): father, did you, with your hands?

Atkins. No, sir, I (lid not cut 1115 throat, but I cut the thread of all his
comforts, and shortened his days: I broke his heart by the most ungrateful,
unnatural return for the most tender, affectionate treatment. that ever father
gave, or child could receive. .

Crusoni Well, I did not ask you about yum: father to extort. (his confession;
I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive you that and all your other

 

sins; but I asked you, becausc I see that, though you have not much learning,
yet you are not so igniornnt. as some are in things that are good; (hm: you have
ltmnvn more of religion at great deal than you have practisnd.

Alkins. Though you, 511', did not. extort. this cnni'ession that; I make about
my father, conscience does; and whenever "-9 come. to look buck upnn our lives,
the. sins against our indulgent. parents are certninly the first that touch us; the
wounds they make li'e deepest; and the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon
the miml of all the sins we can commit.

Gimme. You (all: too feelingly and sensible for me, Atkins; I cannot
hear it.

Atkins. You. hear it, masterl I dare say you know nothing of it
as:

m "w" Wme .Crusoe. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hi", my, I maysay every tree, in
this island, is witness to the anguish of my soul, for my ingrntitnde and base
usage of a good, tender father--a {other much like yours by your description;
and I murdered my father as well as you, Will Atkins; but think, for all that,
my repentance is short of yours too by a grcnt deal.

I would have said more if I could have restrained my passions; but i
thought that this poor mmi's repentance wns so much sinccrcr than mine, that
I was going to lcm'o oil' the discourse and retire: for I was surprised with what
he said, and thought, that instead of my going about to tench and instruct him,
the man wast mode a. teacher and instructor to me in a most surprising and
unexpected manner.

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly ail-'ectet'l with it,
and said to me, "Did Inot say, sir, that when this man wns converted he
would. preach to us all? Itcll, you, air, if this one man he made a' true
penimnt, here will he no need of roe--he will make Christians of all in the
island." But having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with
Will Atkinai

" But, Will," said 1, "how comes the sense of this matter to touch you
just now I?"

Iii-Wm"- Sir, you have let me about a work that has struck a dart through
my very soul: I have been talking about God and religion to my Wife: in
order, as you directed me, to make a Christian 92" her; and she has preached
such a. sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.

Crusoe. No, no; itis not your wife has preached to you; but when you
were moving religions arguments to her, conscience has flung them back
upon you. '

Atkins. Ay, eir, with such a force as is not to heresisted.

Crusoe. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your wife,
for I know something of it already

Atkins. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it: I am too full
to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it. But let her have said what elm
will, end though I cannot give you an account ol' it, this I can tell you of it.-
fhat I resolve to amend and reform my life.

Crusoe. Buttell us some of it. How (lid you begin, Will? for this has
been an extraordinary case, that is certain; she has preached a sermon, indeedl,
if she has wrought this upon you. --

Atkins. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage, and
what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter into such
compacts as it was neither in the power of one or other to break; that other-
wise, order and justice could not be maintained, and men would run from their
wives, and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one another, and neither
families he kept entire, nor inheritances he settled by a legal deaoent.

Crusoe. Youtalk like a. civilian, Will. Comm you make her understand
what you meant by inheritance and families? They know no such thing among
L'ne savages, but marry anyhow, without any regard to relation, ennsanguinity,
or family--brailler and sister, nay, as T have been told, even the father and
daughter, and tho son an}. the mother.

Aflfim. I believe, sir, you'are mishafurmed; my will: assures me of the
contrary, and that they abhor it. Perhaps, for any further relations they mm.r
not be so exact as we are ; but she. tells me they never touch one another in the
near relations you speak ol'.

Crusoe. Well, what did she say to whnt you told her?

Atkins. She said she. liked it very well, and it was much beilm: than in her
country.

Crusoe. But (lid you tell her what- marringe was?

Atkins. Ay, a5}, there began all our dialogue. I naked her it' bile. would he
married to me our way? She asked me, what way tlmt was? I told hm:
marriage was appointed of God; and here We had a strange tall: together,
indeed, as ever man and wife had, I believe.

This dialogue between Will Atkins 04th his wife, as 1 tool: it Lion-u in writing
just after he told it me, was as follows:--

l-'Vifc. Aposintedhy your God! Why, have you .1 Gocl in your country?

Adams. Yes, my dear, God is in every country.

l-Vifc. No your God in my country: my country have the great old
Benamuckeo God. '

Atkins. Child, I am very unlit to show you who God is; God is in heaven,
and made tho heaven and the earth, the sen, and all that in them is.

Fl'ife. No makes (18 earth; no yon God makes do earth; no inaltee my
country

Will Atkins laughed a little :1: her expressions or God not making her
country. .

"'2' e. No laugh: why laugh me? This no ting to lmxgh.
He was justly reprovcd by his wife, for she was more serious than in:
3!. first. ' -

Atkins. That's. true, indeed; I will not laugh my more, my dear.

Wife Why you say you God made all?

Atkins. Yes, child; our God made. the whole world, and. you, and me, and
all things ; for he is the onl}.r true God--there is no Grad but he; he. lives for
ever in heaven.

'Wz'fc. Why you no (all me long ago?

Anton" That's true, indeed; but 1. have been a wicked wretcl'e, and born
not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any thing before, but lure lives]
without God in the world myself.

li'zfiu What! have you do great God in your country, you no know him?
No say 0 to him]? No do good Ling for him? That no possible! _

Aikx'ns. It is too true though, for all that: we live as if there was no God
in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.

l-Vzfi. But why God let. you do so? Why he. no malice you good live?Mwmz'ruuns os nomxsou URCSOE.

Atkins. It is all our own fault.

l-Wfi. But you say me he is great, much great, have much great power; can
mako kill when he will: why he no makes kill when you no serve him--no say
0 to him--no be good mans? '

Atkins. T but is true, he might strike me dead, and. I ought. to expect. it;
for l have been a wicked wrctoh, thazis true: but God is merciful, and (ions
not den] with us as we deserve.

WW 2. But then (lo not you tell God tankee for that ion.

Atkins; No, indeed; I have not. thanked God for his mercy any more than
I have feared God for his power. I

[Vi/7:. Then you God no God; we no Link, believe he be such one, grout.
much power, strong; no malaeo kill you, though you malice him much angry.

Atkins. Whatl will my wicked lil'c hinder you From believing in God?
What a dreadful creature am I! And what a sod n'uth is it, thot the horrid
lives of Christians hinder the conversion of heathens!

We c. How me tink you have great much God up there (she points up to
heaven), and yet no do well. no do good ting? Can he tell? Sure he no tell
what you do?

Atkins. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he hears us speak, sees
what we do, knows what we think, though we do not spook.

li'ife. Whntl he no hear you swear, curse, speak the grant damn?

Atkins. Yes, yes, he hears it nil.

"72' 2. Where he then the muchco gnu: power strong?Atkins, He is mercifulu-lfmt is all we can say for it; a
to be tlm true God: he is God, and not In
consumed.

nil this proves him
an; nud therefore we are not

=-.~'~

~_-_m._4.qa---~.
"W3..." .

 

[The Unhinged

. fwd-<<hr?-- ~V___---

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to think lmw he could
tell his wife so clearly that Gad sees, and hours, and knows the sucret thoughts
ol'tlle heart, and a?! that we do; and yet that he had claretl to flu all the Vile
things he had done.

Ich. Merciful! what you call dat ?
Atkins. He is cur father and maker ; and he pities and spares us.. ea . MW:

ADVEX TUBES _0F ROBINSON CRCSOE.

lVife. So then he never makes kill, never angry when you do wicked;
then he no good himaeli', or no great able.

Affine. Yes, yes, my dear; he is infinitely good, and infinitely great, and.
able to punish too; and sometimes, to show his justice and vengeance, he lets
fly his anger to destroy sinners and make examples: many are cut of? in
their sins.

Wife. But no maker: kill you yet; then he tell you, may be, that he no
maker: you kill, so you makes de bargain with him, you do hm). ting, he no be
angry at you, when he be angry at other main?

Atkins. No. indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon his goodness: and he
would be infinitely inst if he deatroved me, as he has (lune other men.

Wife. W ell, and Vet no kill no make: you deadl What Von say to him
for that? Yen no tell him tanker) for all that too!

A I am an unthankfnl, ungrateful (log, that is true.

. Why he no makcc you much good better? You say he makee you.

A3}. is. He made me as he made all the world; 'tis I have deformed myself",
and abused his goodness, and have made myself an abominable wrctcli.

Wifb.' I wish you makes God know me; Inc makes him angry; I no do
bad wicker] ting.

Here Will Atkins said his heart sank within him, to hear a poor untuughi.
creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such a wicked Vii-etch that
he could not say a word to her about God, but. who: the reproach of his own
carriage would make most irrational to her to believe; nay, that already she
could believe in God, because he that was so wicked was not destroyed.

Atkins. My dear, yen moan yon wish I could teach you to know Goal, not
God to know you, for he knows you already, and er e). y thought in your heart.

With. "113,, then, he know what I say to you now; he know me uish to
know him: how shall me know n he makee me?

Atkins. Poor crentur c, he must teach thee, I cannot teach then; I'll pray to
him to teach thee to know him; and to forgive me that I am unworthy to
tench thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at he): desiring him to make her
know God, and her wishing to know him, that he said he fell down on his
knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being
the unworthy instrument of instructing her in the principles of religion; after-
which he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on.

NB. This was the time when we saw him kneel (lawn and lift up his hands.

Wife. What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hand for ?
What you say? Who you speak to? What is that?

Ailing. My dear, I how my knees in token of my submission to Him that
made me: I said 0 to him, as you call it, and as you say your old- men do
their idol Benmnuchee--that is, I prayed to him.

Wi e. What you say 0 to him for?

856Anvnx'rnmzs or nonmsox CRIISOE.
Atkine. I prayed to him to open your eyes and your understanding, that
you may know him and he accepted by him.

Wife. Can he do that too?

A thins. Yes, he can; he can do all things.

Wi' 6. But. he no hear what. you say i'

Atkins. Yes, he has bid us pray to him, and promised to hear us.

W'Il'b- Bid 3'0" pray! When he bid you? How he bid you? What you
hear him speak '.'

Atkins. No, we do not hear him speak; hut he has revealed himself many
ways to us.

Here he was at a- great loss to make her understand that God lwl revealed
himself to us by his word, and what his word was; but at last he told it her
thus :--

Atkins. God has spoken to some good men in former days, even li'om'
heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired. good men by his Spirit; and
they have written all hit lows down in a. hook.

Wig/22. Mo no understand that: where is book? .

Atkins. Alas! my poor creature, I have. not this hook; inn. 1 hope I shall,
one time or other, get it-'for you to road it.

Here he. embraced lid): with great nfi'cction; but with inuxpressible grief
that he had not a Bible.

_ Wife. But how you malice me know that God wachee them to write that
book i -

Atkins. Bytlie snme rule that we know him to be God

- Wife. What rule? what; way you know?

Atkins. Because he teaches and. commands nothing but wlmt is good,
righteous, and holy, and tends to make ns perfectly good, as well as perfectly
happy; and because he forbids and commands us to avoid all that is wicked,
that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequences.

lefi'. That me would understand, that. me fuin see; if he reward all good
thing, punish nll wicked thing, he teachec all good thing, forbid all wicked
thing, he makes all thing, he give all thing; he hear me when 1 say 0 to him,
as you go to do just now; he makes me good if I wish be good; he spare me,
no makee kill me when I no be good; all this you say ho do: yes, ho ho great.
God; me take, think, believe him be great Call; me say 0 to him too with
you, my dear. '

Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer; but, raising her up,
made her hneel by him; and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the
knowledge of himself by his Spirit; and that, by somo'gmd providence, it
possible, she might some time or other come to have a Bible, that. she might-
read the word of God, and be taught by him to know him.

This was the time that we saw him lift. her up by the hand, and sow him
kneel down by her, :13 above.

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long to set downanvnnruuns or nonrxsox c-nusor.

here; nnd particularly she made him promise, that, since he confessed his own
life had been a wicked, abominable course of provocation against God, he would
reform it, and not make God angry any more. lest he should make him dead,
as she called it, and then she should he left alone, and never be taught to know
this God better; and. least he should he miserable, as he had told her wicked
men should be niler death.

This was a strange amount, and very nfi'ecting to us both, but. particularly
the young clergyman: he was indeed wonderfully surprised with it; but under
the greatest affliction imaginable that he could not talk to her: that he could
not speak English to make her imderstnnd him; and as she spoke but. very
broken English, he could not understand her. However, he turned himself to
me, and told me that he believed there must he more to do with this woman
than to marry her. I did not understand him at first, but. at. length he
explained himself, namely, think she ought to he baptised. -

I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going about it presently:
"No, no; hold, sir!" said he; " though I would have her baptised by all
means, yet I must observe that Will Atkins, her hushnncl, has indeed brought
her, in a. wondorlixl manner, to be willing to embrace a. roligioua life; and has
given hcrjuat ideas of the being of a. God, of his power, justice, and mercy;
yet- I desire to know of him if he has said anything to her ol'Joaus Christ, and
of the salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in him, and the redemption
by him ; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future
state."

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor follow full imme<<
diutely into tears, and told us he had 8st something to her of all those things,
but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own conscience so
rcprouched him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled at the appre-
hensions that. her knowledge of him should lessen the-attention she should give
to those things, and make her rather contemn religion than receive it: but. he
was assured, he said, that her mind was no disposed to receive due impressions
of all thoue things, that, if I would but discourse with her, she would make it
appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not be lost upon her.

Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between the
clergyman and the woman, I entrented him 1.0 begin with her, which he did.
In award, he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ,
and of redemption by him, not with wonder and astonishment. only, as she did
the that notions of a God, but with joy, and faith, and with an oli'cction and a
surprising degree of understanding scarce to be imagined, much less to be
expressed; and, at her own request, she was baptised. He poured nwlmlo
dishful of water upon the woman's hand, pronouncing in French, very loud,
"Mary," (which was the noun; her husband desired me to give her, for l was
her godfather), "I baptise thee in the name of the Father, and of the. Son, and
of the Holy Ghost;" so that none could know any thing by it what religion
he was of.

 

  

3&5
As soon as this was over, he married them: and after the marriage was
over, he turned himself to Will Atkins, and, in u very affectionate manner,
exhorted him not. only to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but to
support. (he convictions that were upon him, by a resolution to reform his life;
told him it was in vain to say he repented, if he. did not forsake his crimes;
represented to him how God had honoured him with being the instrument
of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion; and that he
ahonld be careful he did not dishonour the grace of God; and that if he did,
he would. see" the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage con-
verted, and the instrument cost. away.

He said a great many good things to them both, and then recommended
them, in a few words, 1.0 God's goodness, gave them the benediction again--l
repeating everything to them in English--and thus ended the ceremony. I

 

think it was the most pleasant, agreeablo (lay to me, that ever I passed in my

. whole life.

Bu! my oh man had not; (lone yet; his thoughts hung continually upon
the conversion of the thirty-seven savgos, and thin he would have staid upon
tho island to have undertaken it: but I convinced him, first, that hisnmler-
taking was impracticable in itself; and secondly, that, perhul's. I could put it
into a way of being acne in his absence, to his satisfaction; of Which by
and bye.

Having thus brought the afl'nir of the island to a. narrow compass, I was
preparing to go on board the ship, when the young mun whom I had taken out

 

. of the famished ship's company, crime to me and told me he (understood 1 had a

clergyman with me, and that I caused the Englishmen to he max-rim tothc
savages whom they called wives; "int he had a mulch too, which he Ilesn'ed
might be finished before I went, between two Christians, which he hoped would
not be disagreeable to me.
1 know Lhis must he the young woman who was his mother's servant, for
there was no osher Christian woman on the island. So Ihegan to persuade
him not'to do any thing of that kind rashl'y, or because he found himself in
this solitary circumstance. 1 represented that he hail some considerable sub-
stance in the world, and good friends, as I understood by himself, and by his
maid also; that the maid was nor. only poor, and a servant, but was unequal
to him, she being twenty-six or twenty-seven years old, and he not above
sevonieon or eighteen; that he might vory probably, with my assistance, make
3 remove from this wilderness and come into his own country again, and that
then i: would be a thousand to one but he would repent his choice, and the
dislike of that circumstance might. be disadvantageous to both. I was going to
say morn, but he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a great deal of
modesty, that l mistook in my guesses; that he had nothing'oi' that kind
in his thoughts, his present} circumstances being melancholy and disconsolnto
enough, and was very glad to hear that. I had some thoughts ol' putting them
in a way to see their own country again; and that. nothing should have set
him upon staying there, but that ihe voyage I was going was so exceedingly
long and hazardous, and would carry him qnim out: of the reach of all his
friends; that he had nothing to desire of me but that I would settle him in
some little yroperty of tho island where he was, give him a son-amt or two
and some few necessaries, and he would settle himself here like a planter,
waiting the good time when, if ever I returner] to England, I Would redeem
him, and hoped I'would not he unmindl'ul ol' him when I came 1/) England;
that he would give me some lotiers to his friends in London, to let them know
huv good I had hcon in him, and what part of the world, and what circum-
stances, I had left him in; mid he promised me that whenever I redeemed him,
the plantation, and all the improvements he had made upon it, let the value he
who: it would, should be Wholly mine.

His discourse was vary prettily delivered, considering his youth, and was
the morn agreeable 10 me, because he told me positively the ma'lch was not for
himself. I gave him all possible assurances, that if I livedto come sail: to
England, I would deliver his letters and do his business effectually, and that
heinight depend I would never forget the circumstances I left ,him in. But
still I was impatient to know who was the person to be married; upon which
he told me it was my " Jack of all trades," and his maid Susan.

I was most agmfialyly surprised when he named fire match; for indeed I load
thought; it very suitable. The character of that man I have given you nlrendy;
and as for the maid, she has u very honest, modest, sober, and religions
woman ; had a very good share of 593150.; was agreeable enough in her person;
spoke very handsomely and to lho'purposewalwnys with decency and good

minors, and not backwnrd'to speak when any thing required it, or impor--_
tinently forward to speak when it was not her business; very handy and
housewifely in any thingthnt was before her; on excellent manager, and lit,
indeed, to have been governess to the whole island; she .lmcw very well how
 

to behave herseli' to all kind of folks she had about her, and to better if she
had found any there.

The match being Fronosed in this manner, we married them the some day ;
and as I was father at tho altar, as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave
her unortion; for-I appointed her and her husband a. handsome large spnce
of ground for their plantation; and indeed this match, and the proposal the
young gentleman made to mo to give him a small property in the island, put
me upon pnrcnlling it out among them, that they might not quarrel afterivords
about their situation. -

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who indeed was
now grown a most sober, grave, mnuuging fellow, perfectly reformed, exceed--
ingly Pi'ms and religious, and, as far as I may ho allowed to speak positively in
suuh a case, I verily believe was a true sincere penit/ent.

He divided things so justly, and so much to every Ono's satisfaction, that
they only desired one general writing under my hand for the whole, which I
caused to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the bounds
and situation of every man's plantation, and testifying that I giu'e them thorc-
by, severally, a right to the whole possession and inheritance of the respective
pluntations or farms with their improvements, to them and their heirs:
reserving all the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent for
every particular plantation alter eleven years, if 'I, or any one from me, or in
my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the some
writing. -

As to the government and laws among them, I told them, I was not capable
of giving them better rules than they were able to give themselves; only made
them promise me to live in love and good neighbourhood with one another:
and so I prepared to leave them.

Ono thing I must not omit, and that is, that being now settled in a kind of
commonweath among themselves, and having much business in hand, it was
.hnt odd to have aevon-and-thirly Indians live in o nook of the island, inde-
pondent, and indeed unemployed; for, excepting tho providing themselves
food, which they had difheulty enough in doing sometimes, they had no manner
of business or properly to manage: I proposed, therefore, to the governor
Spaniard, that he should go to them with Friday's father, and propose to them
to remove, and either plant for themselves, or take them into their several
families as servants, to he maintained for their labour, but without being
nbsoluta slaves ; for i would not admit them to make them slaves hy force by
any' means, because they had their liberty given by cupitulntion, and, as it
were, articles of surrender, which they ought not to break.

Tho}r most willingly embraced the propoml, and came all very cheerfully
along with him; so we allotted thorn hmd and plantations, which three or i'our
accepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed as scrvnuts in the several

families we had settled; and thus my colony was in a manner settled as
follows:-Tho Spaniards possessed my original habitation, which was the

391
capital city,'and extended their plantntion all along the side of the brook which
made the creek that I have so often described, as for as my bower; and as
they increased their culture, it went always eastward. The English lived in
the north-east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began, and came on
southward and south-west towm'ds the back part of the Spaniards ; and every
plantation had it great addition of land to take in, if" they found occasion, so
that they need not jostle one another for want. of room.

All the west end of the island was left. uninhabited, that if any of the
savage: should come on shore there, onl)r for their usual customary harbarities,

they might come and go; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb
them: and no doubt but they were often ashore and went away again, for I
never heard that the planters were attached and disturbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my friend, the clergy-
man, that the work of converting the savages might perhaps he set on foot in
his absence to his satisfaction, and I told him that now I thought it was put in
:1 fair way; for the savages being thus divided among the Christians, if they
would but every one of them do their part; with those which came under their
hands, I hoped it might have u very good effect.

This they engaged to do, and they likewise promised us, that they would
 
    

 
 

never have any difi'erenccs or disputes one with another about religion. When
I came to Will Atkius's house--I may call it so, for such a. house, or such a
piece of basket-Work, I believe was not standing in the world again--I sav,
when I came thither, I found the young woman I have mentioned above and
William Atkins'a wife were become intimates; and this prudent and religions
young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had. begun; and though it
was not above four days after what I have related, yet the new baptised savage
i woman was made such it Christian as I have seldom heard of our like her in
.~ 3 all my observation or conversation in the world. i
"5" It came next into my mind in the morning, before I went to them, that

 

among all the needful things I had to leave with them, I had not left a Bible,
in which I showed myself less considering for them than my good friend, the
widow, was for me, when she sent me the cargo of one hundred pounds from
Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-book.

However, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever she
imagined, for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction of those that
<<1' made much better use of them than I had done.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I come to Williiun,yi

.,._ "7-"
.-.W_..C/:N

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

.rM-erm.w

 

,n.. ..
-<<.<<.W...-_-,...M,

V. .. "53%;" ..
'u'r-x'l

', - , "W

OF 3011!.

   

Al)" RN'IUR "-'(JN GREECE.

 

Atkins's tent, of ham , I found the young woman and Allzins's baptised wife
had hes-.n disconrsing of religion together (for \V'illiam Atkins told it me with a
gram: deal of joy). I asked. if they were together now 2' and he said yes; so I
- into the house, and he with me, and we found them together, very earnest
. icnnrse. .

We talker]~ :t little. and I did not>> perceive they had a. book among them,
lhn' $31 I did not ash, but I put my hand in my pocket, and. pulled out in};
Bll)l|:"- "Here," said I to Atkins, "I have brought you an assistant, that,
perhaps, you had. not before: The man was so uonfhnndcd that ho was not
able to speak for some time; but, recovering himself, he (aims it with both his
hands, and, turning to his wife, ." Here, my dear," say: he, "' (U1! not I tell
you, our Gal, though he liv above, could hear whet we said? Here is the
hunk I prayed for, when you and I kneeled down under the bush : mm- God
h mom-Li ms, and sent it." When he. had said thus, the man fell in such
transports ol' passionate joy, that, hein'een the joy of having: 't and giving God
thanks for it, the tears ran down his face like :1 child that was crying.

The woman was surprisaie, and was like to have run into a mistake that
none of us were aware of; for she firmly believed God had sent the book upon
her husband's petition. It is true that providemially it 'was so, and might be
taken 5:: in n consequent sense; hut: I. believed. it would have been no (lifiicnll.
mutt: ~ at that time to have persuaded the poor woman that an express
mess Mgrr came from heaven on purpose to luring that individual book. But
it was 00 serious 2. mutter to sufi'er any delusion to take place; so 1 turned to
the young woman, and told her we (lid not. desire to impose upon the new
convert in her first and more ignorant understanding ol"things, and begged
her to explain to her that God may he, very properly said to answer our
petitions, when, in the course of his providence, such things are in a particular
manner brought. to pass <<a we petitioned for; but we do not, expect returns
from heaven in v. miraculous and particular manner; and that it is our mercy

 

  

 

    

 

 

   

   

 

 

the young; woman did afterwards effectually; so that: there was, l.

assure. you, no I)! tcrafi used here; nncl I should have thought. it. one of the
most unjustifiable frauds in the world to have had it so: but the surprise of
joy upon "Till Atkins is really not to he expressed; (incl there, we may he
sure, was no delusion. Sure no man Was'cvcr more thankful in the world for
any thing ol' its kind than he was for this Bible, anti I believe never {my man
was giad of a Bible from nhatter principle; and though he had been a most
proz'l gate creature, desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious, and wicked to a
great degree, yet this man is a standing rule to us all. for the well instructing
children, namely, that parents should never give over to teach and instruct, or
ever despair of the success of their endeavours, let the children he ever so
obstinate, refractory, or to appearance insensihlc of instruction; for if over
God in his providence touches the consciences of such, the force of their
education returns upon them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost,
 

 

though it may have been many years laid asleep, but some time or other they
may find ihe benefit of it.

Thus it was v:i:l1 this poor man. However ignorant he Was, or divested 05'
religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had some to do with now nioro
ignorant than himscll'; mid that the least part of the insirnciion of his gnml
father that could nor.- come to his mind, was of use to hint.

Among'the rest it ocmn'rccl to him, he said, how his father need to insist
much upon the inexpressihle value of the Bible, the privilege and blessing of i:
to nations, families, and persons; hnt he never entertained the lease notion
of the worth of it till now, when, being>>; to talk to heallzens, savages, and
baubarians, he Wanted the help of the written oracle for his assistance.

The young woman was Very glad ol' it also for the present occasion, thorrrh
she had one, and so had the youth, on board our 5 zip, among {he goods WI 1
were not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so many things of this
young woman, I cannot omit telling one story," more of her and myself, which
has sonn'r-hing in it very informing and remarkable.

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced
her mistross Was starred to death, and did die on hoard that mishap; no: we
met at sea; and hour the whole ship's company being reduced to the last
extremity, eho gontlowoman and her Bon, and this maid, were first hardly uaed
as to provisions, and at. last totally neglected and starved--that is to say,
brought to the last cxiremi' f hunger.

One day, being discomsmg with her upon the extremities they snfferoLl,l
asked her ii' she could desurihn, by what she felt, what if: was to starve, arrl
how it appeared ? She told me she believed she could, and. she told her tale
v0 distinctly thus z>>--

'irst. sir," she sairl, "we had for some dnys fared exceedingly hard, and

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

    

any kind, except. sugar, and a little wine, and a litilc water. The fl "L' (lay
after I hurl received no fowl at all, I found myself, towards- the m' I first:
empty and sickish at my siomach, and nearer night mi'rhtilvr inclined to '
ing, and sleepy; I in}? down an a couch. in the great on to sleep, and .'
olionttliree hours, anti smoked a little refrushod, lmrin- 'en o. glass of
ivhen I lay down. After being about three hours aural. , it: being about fire
o'clock in no mornhig, I found myself empty, and my stomach sir'liish in" nu.
and lay- down again, but could not ale-op at all, lining very fair-.1: and All; and
thus I'conlinned all the second tiny with a strange- vnri -----l'.rsz hungry, then
sick again, with retchings to 1vomit. The second night being obliged to :40 to
ted again without any food. more than a draught of fair "vat 'z'ua'l'l:
asleep; dreamed 1 Was at Barbadoes, and that the marker, was mightily em
with provisions ; that I bought some for my mistress and Went and dined \'v.
heartily. _

"I thought my stomach was full after this, as it would. narebx:
a good dinner: huH-rhen lwalkod, I was exceedingly sunk In in}

 

 
 
    

   

   

   

 

"LAP"

 

      

.195

suffered very great hunger,l>nt now at last we were wholly without l'nod ol'iim'i-m'rtnzs on Itomxsox 03118015.
find myself in the extremity of famine; the last glass of wine we had I drank,
and put. sugar into it, because of its having some spirit to supply nourishment;
but there being no suhstance in the stomach for the digesting ofiice to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was to raise disagreeable fumes
from the stomach into the head ; and I lay, as they told me, stupid and sense-
less, as one drunk, for some time.

"The third day, in the morning, after a. night of strange and confused,
inconsistent dream, and rather dozing than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and
furious with hunger; and I question, had not my miderstnmling returned and
conquered it, 1 soy,I question whether, if I had been a mother, and had a.
little child with me, its life would have been sofa or no. '

" This lasted about three hours, during which time 1 was twice raging, mad
as any creature in Bedlam, Its my young master told me, and as he now can
inform you. .

" In one of those fits of lunacy or distraction, whether by the motion of the
ship or some slip of my foot i know not, I, Tell down, and struck my face
against the corner of a palletrbed, in which my mistress lay, and with the blow
the blood gushed out. oi" my nose, and the cabiiiLhog- bringing me a lililo basin,
l sat down and bled into it a. great. deal ; and a>> the blood ran from me I come
to myself, and the violence of the flame or the fever 1 was in abated, and so
did the ravenous part of the hunger.

"Then I grew sick, and matched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing
in my stomach to bring up. After I had. bled some time I swooned. and they
all believed I was dead ; but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most
dreadful pain in my stonmehmot to be described, not like the colic, but a
gnawing eager pain For food; and towards night it wont oil" with a. kind of
earnest wishing or longing for food, something like, as I suppose, the longing
of nwoman with child. I took another draught of water with sugar in it,
hut my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought. it all up again; then I took
a drought of water without sugar, and that staid wiih me, and I laid inc down
upon the had, praying most heartily that it Would please God to take me away;
and, composing my mind in hopes of it, I slninherod a while, and then waking,
thought. myself dying, being light with vapours from an empty stoma/ch;
I recommended my soul to God, and earnestly wished that attached},r would
throw me into the sen.

" All. this while my mistreaa lag; by me, jug-.13 I thought, expiring, bntboro
it with much more patience than I, and gave the last bit of bread she had
to her child, my young master, who Would not have taken it, but she obliged
him to eat it, and i' believed it. saved his life.

" Tower-(lo the morning I slept again, and first when I awnked I fell into a
violent passion of crying, and after that had a second iii of violent hunger, so
that I got up )'H-Venc >11>>, and in a most. dreadful condition. Had my mistress
hem (109d; so much .as I loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a. piece
of her: flesh with as "much relish, and as unconcerned, a3 ever I did the flesh

U'JG
\_

of'any creature appointed for food; nnd once or twice I was going to bite my
own arm. At lastI saw the basin in which was the. hloodI had bled at my
nose the day before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such
n greedy appetite, as if I had wondered nobody had taken it before, and afraid
ii. should be taken from me now.

"Though, al'tcr it was clown the thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet if-
checlicd the fit of hunger, and I drank a. draught at fair water, mid was com-
posed and refreshed for some hours after it. This was the fourth day; and
thus Ilmhl it till inwards night, when. with": the compass oi' three hours, I
had all these several circumstances ova ' again, one after another, namely, sick,
sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then sick
again, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of

"{i'r

'-.
P;
x

l
,\.

l, -

"cm- I say i;%\

 

     

an hour; and ln)' strength wasted exceedingly. At night 1 laid me down,
having no comfort. hut in the hope that I slmulzl (he belare morning.

" All thisnight I had no-slccp, but the hunger was now turned into n disease.
and I had a terrible colic and griping, wind insteaxl of loodlmving found its
WM" into m? bowels; and in this condition I lay fiil morning, when I was
surprised a-little with lhc cries and launcntulions of my young innsfer, who
called out to me that his'mothcr was (lead. lliftml myself up a little, for I had
no strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though she was ahlc to give
very little signs of life.

" 1 had then such convulsions in my stomaeh far want of some sustenance
tlml. I cannot. describe them, with such frequent throes and pangs of appetite. ... , .. ,.

ADVILNTE'IIES 0F ROBINSON CRY-$Ol'}.
that nothing but the tortures of death can imitate; and this condition I was
in when I heard the semen whore cry out 'A sail! a sail!" and halloo and
jump about as if they were distracted. .

" I was not able to get on" From the had, and my mistress much less, anti my
master was so sick that I thought he had boon expiring; so we could not open.
the cabin door, or got any account when: it was that occasioned such a combus-
tion ; not haul we any conversation with the ship's company for two days, they
having told us they had not a mouthful of ants-thing to eat in the <<hip; and
they told us . rrmrds thoy thought we had been dead.

"In this d; lulful condition we were in when you were eent- to M: our
lives; and how you found us, sir, you. know us well. as .l, and better too."

This was her own relation, smrl is such 9. distinct account of starving to
death, as l confess I never met with, and was. excoodinglgr entertaining to me.
I am the rather apt to believe it. to he :L true account, because the youth gave
me on account of a. good part of it; though, I must own, not, so (list-incl: and
so frelingly as his maid owl the rather because it seems his mother fed him ut-
thc mice of her own life; but. the poor maid, though her constimtion being
strong hzm that of her mistress, who was in ymrs, and a. weakly woman too,
she 1m 4% "Juggle lmrtlm' with it'-----l say the poor maid might be supposed to
an hm' mistress, who might he allowed

 
 
     

 

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
         
 
     
   
   
   
    
      
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
      
    
   
       
   
   
        

 

 

     

   

a
fool the extremity something soouur t
to keep the last hits. something longer than the parted with any to relieve the

 

m

maid. .No question, as the case is hora related, 12 our ship, or some other, had
not so providontinllymct them, a. few days more would have ended all their
fives, unless they had prevented if. by eating one another; and (even that, as
their case stood, wnunl have served them hut a. little while, they being five
hundred leagues from any lnml, or any possibility of relief, other than in the
miraculous manner it happened. But: this is by the way; I return to my
disposition of lhi among the hoopla.

And first, it IS to he observed here: that: for many reasons, I did not think
lit to let them know anything of the sloop I haul framed, and which I thought.
of setting up among them; for 1 I'onml, at least. at my first coming, such mods
of division among them, that I raw it plainly, had I set up the sloop, and left-
it among them, "My would. upon ve 'y' light disgust, have sonar-Mod, and gone
away; from one another; or perhaps have turned pirates, and. so moxlu the
island a den of ihicves, l and of a plantation of sober and religious people. as,
I intended it to he: HUL' did i insure the two niece: of brass cannon that I had
on hoard, or the two quarter-deck guns that my nephew tool: extraordinary,
for the sumo reason ; I thought they had enough to qualify them for a defersivo
war against any that, shouhl inradn them, but l was. nol. to sot them up for an
0 engine "jar, or in encourage them to go abroad to attack others, which in tho.
end would only bring ruin and destruction uyon themsolves and all their
undertakings. I resm-vccl the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service:
another way, as I shall observe in its place.

I have now (lone with the island. I left them all in good circumstances
XTYRES QT." ROBIS'OX CRUSO '

 

 

   

and in a flour . u, and. Went on heard . xv ship a" in on the 5th (lay
9:" May, having been fire-and mu day: running them; and, :h' iizr'lv were all
l 1 name m rmnnm them. T. m'mnisw'l Lo sr-ml
same further 1"" cf from fin; lirzzils, ii' I could possx ly find. hn opporil )1
and perticularly i promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hows, and
cows, for 35 to the two cows and hives which I brought : land, A hznl
been obliged by the lengih oi'our voyr to kiii them- a, for mm: 91' im_\ tu
feed them.

"The "URL day, ring 1.1mm a salute of five gums at parting, we
arrived a. the Bay of All ms, in the Brazils in about, : 'nnLy.
meeting naming remarl-nhiu in our passage but t'i mi: about three I r
we .eul, b::i g been net}, 3.11:1 the ct nt settin: rune to the nort'.
cast. running, as it were, into a My m- gulf on the inn inle, we were driven
something out 0. our course; 111 once ur Linc-e on I, " L'ufi-l in Elm
westward? hut whet-her i-i was the continent or islu'miS, 'i\\. \nulil ml. .
iUIy lnflfllifi.

But the third (l: ', towards evening, ills . smrmih, and the. wentln'r calm,
we. saw the $321, as it were, covered inwards the hind with suu'mihi
M -l:, not hen able to dis
mate '1); up ne main shroudsalittle w: yam! leak: get them by the poi---
apecin c, cried. out it was an army. I could not innigi . what he menu by :m
, unil spoke a little hastily, calling the l'ellmv a fee), or some such win-<<1.
. says he, "" don't be angry, for it is an army and n fleet too; for I
believe there. are u tlwnsand canoes, and yen may sue 'them paddle along, an-zl
they are ceming inwards us mo apnea, and full as" men."

I was :t little surmised then, inieed, and so was my nephew, the captain ;
for he had heard snc terrible stories oi" them in the ishun'l, and having never
been in those sens before, th:tt.lm could not tell what to think of ii, but said
two or three iimes are should all. be. (lcvonreLL [ must confess, consiiiL-ring
we. were bee-eluted, and the current set strong towards the share, I liked it the.
worse; however, I bade him not to be nfi'aid, hui. bring the ship to an anchor,
as men as we came so near as to know that. we must engage them.

The weather continued calm, and theymnnc on :, . lmmrtis us; so I
gave orders to come in an anchor, and Furl all our sails. As for Lin: sm
Itohl them the}: had nothing to fear fi'um them but firm; and tiiureioru thvy
simnid get their beats out, and fasten them, one close by the hcml, nznl the
other 1237 the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that nostnre:
this I did that the men in the bears might be ready, will: sheet and buckets,

 

 

resolved to stay upon {he island In
.

 

I

     

  
 

   

.'1

 

 

   
  
  
 

 

 

         

 

 

men

     

 

in my

   

 

re 1.).

var what it was; but a ~ some time, our chief

 
  
 

   

   

 

     

  

 

ares.

 

to prison: any lire these savages might- endeavour to fix upon the outside of

the ship.

in this posturo we lay by for them, and in :L little while they came up with
us: but nevcr'was such a. horrid'sight seen by Ch Minna. My mate was murh
mistaken in his calculation of their number, I. mean of a thousand canoes; the
most we could make of them, when they came up, being; aben'>> one hundred anti
'twonty-six--uud a. great msmy of them. too; for 50ml) of them haul sixteen or
seventeen men in them, some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, the;' seemed to he struck with wonder and
astonishment, as at u sight which they had: doubtless, never stem before, nor
could they, at first, us we afterwards understood, know what to make of us.
They came boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed l':o go about to row
round us ; but we cullml. to our men in the heats not. to [or them come tor) near
then>>

This very order brought to an engagement with them willmut our designing
it, for live or six of their large canoes came so near our long-bout, that our
men beckoned with ilteir hands to them 10 keep back, which they understood

 

very well, uud went back ; but at their retreat about five hundred arrows came
on board us from those boats, and one of our men in the long-heat was very
much wounded.

However, I called to them not to live by any means; but we handed down
some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a. kind of a
fence, like waist boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if they
should shoot. main

About half an hour afterwards they came all ."P in a body 95mm of us, and
pretty near-<<so near that we could easily discern what they were, though we

could not tell their design. I easily found they were some of my old friends, _

the same sort of savages that I. had been used to engage with; and in a littletime mime they rowed somewhat farther out to sea, till they came directlv
broadsxde With us, and then rowed down strneglu. upon us, till they mum.- so
near that they could hear us speak. Upon this, I ordered all'my men to keep 3'

 

rm Pate or Tom Mm} '

c1050, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and make all our guns randy; (I '
'\

but being so hem-us to be within homing, ] made Friday go out upon flu:

I>> deck, and cull 0th aloud to them in his language to know what they meant, which ~, ,

'accordingly he did; whether they understood him 01' Mi, that Iknow um;mfigm:qr "'~'_v'.-."'.Z:SET.='deg.A.- "PS33"
ADVEXT'L'EE-'l 0F nonmsou UluESOE.

some?

   

  
  
 

  
  

but, as soon as he culled to them, six . 4 . in the foremost, or
highest has: to us, tumor! their cnnucs l roxu us, and, stou' rs; down, put them-
selves in a very indecent yosLure. Whether this was a. defiance, or: challenge,
we knew not; or whether it was done in more contempt, or a signal In ill-c
rest; lmt immediately li'ritiny m'imi out, they were going: to slinoi; and
nnliappily For him, your Fellow, they 1:: fly about three hundred of their
urrc'wa, and, to my inexpressible grief, 1:205 pom- 3')'5<lay,_ no other man
I) l" in their sight. The poor Follow was shot with :10 less than l-iu'ee
an 'MS, sud about three more full. very nigh him; such unlucky marksmon
the}; were:

I was so enraged at the loss of my old servant, the companion of all my
sorrows 1d solitude hot I immariu's-Jzoly <<filmed live guns to 1m landed with
small shot, 51ml :"(n'ir will great 3 and gave them such :1 broadside as they had
never had in their lives before, to he sure,

They were not nhovn lmll' (L cable's length of? when we fired; nnd our
gunners took their zin so well, that thrco or {our of their canoes were orc--raet,
:is we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

'l'lir'r ill manners gave us no great oil'enoo; neither dial I know for carlaiu
whether thni, which would pass for the greatest contempt :unong us, might be
understood so by them or not; therefore, in rchn'n', IIle only resolved to have
fil'etl foul: or five guns with powder only, which I knew would fright tlilsu :zifii-
tly; but when tlmj' shot zit us directly with all the Fury filmy were czi'puhln
(If; and especially as they had killxl my poor 1' lay, whom I so cntimly loved.
and. valued, and who, iizrlcerl, so well deservedi I not only had been justiliod
before God nntl man, but would have been vex Ilnd, if I could, to have over-v
l'. arm-y ennoo there, zuicl drowned every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor limv many we wounded so. this
broadside, lint, sure, such a fright and hurry never was soon among such a.
multitude: there were thirhmn or fourteen of their canons split and ov
"-11:1'414 the mm all set. a. swimming; the rcst, l'riglifened out of their wits,
scom'ccl may sis in
boats were split or spoiled with our shot: so I suppose Eliot they were inn:
their. lost; and our men m1..- up one poor fellow swimming for his life, alumni
an hour after they were all gone.

Our small shot. from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great many,
but; in short, we nom' knew anything how il- weiil: with them; for they fled so
fast, that, in threu hours or Lhcrmboula, we could not soc ohm-e three or four
straggli g canoes; nor did we ever see the may. any more; for a broom m" wind
springing up the. some evening, we weighed, aural act mil for tho ls'mzils.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that ho woull
nail-humannorspeak, and we all fancier! lie would starve himsell'to death;
Isz took 9. way to cum ' m, for I mmle them take. him and turn him info the
long-hank and make him believe they "'(n'llo'l Loss him into the son again, and so
leave. hiuiwlicro 1.119;; found him, if lie would not. speak; nor would. that do,but the); really (lid. throw him into the sea, and came awav from him; and then
he followed them, for he swam like It cork, and called (.0 them in his tunune;
though the." knew-not. one word at" what he. said. However, at last, they took
him in again, and then he begun to he more tractable; nor (lid I ever design
they should drown him. '-

Wc were new under sail again; but I was the most disconnoiam creature
alive for want. 01' my man Friday, and. would have been very glnzl to hm
bank to the island, to have taken one of the rest from :hencu far my occasion;
but it. could not he, so we went on. "'0. lzsrl one prisoner, as .T limit: snitl, and
it was a long while lml'orc we could make him understand anything; but in
time our men taught him some English, nm'x he began to he 9 little trxc'lnble;
afterwards we inquired What comitryhe came from, but could make nothing
of what he said; for his Speech was. 5n nth, nil gutturnls, nml apokcn in the
throat in such a. hollow and odd manner, that we could never form a word from
him 5 and we were all of opinion that. they might. speak that language as well
if they were gagged, as otherwise' nor could we no civc that they 1le any
occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or ynlnte, hat 'med their words just us
a hunting-horn forms a. tune, with an open throat: he told us, however, some
time sitar, when we lmcl taught: him to speak a little English that they were
going with their kings to fight a great battle. When he (l kings, we ask: ll
him, how my a); kings? He said, " there were five nation ' (we could nut
mnke him understand the plural a), " and that they all joiuexl to go against two
nation." We aelgerl him, " W'lmt' anlu them come up in us ?" He said " 'l'o
malice (6 grant wonder look." "Where it is to he observe-l, that all they:
natives, as also those of Africa, when they learn English, they also add two c's
at the and of the words where We use one, and place the min m2 rinnn the lual:
ol' them--2:3 71:41:62, retire, and the like; and we could not: hreul: them el'it; \
any, I could hardly make Friday leave it; all, though at last he did.

And now l name the poor fellow once more, I must. take my last leave of
him--poor honest; l'v'riday! We hurled him with all (lee-"nay and ssolcinnitl',r
possihlcfljy gutting him into it collin, and throwing; him iuw the sun; mnl l,
caused them to lire eleven guns for him: null so emit-ti the lil'c of the imm-
gt'nlcl'nl, faithful, honest, and mom; affectionate servant that ever inzni haul.

We now went sway with a fair wind for Brazil, and in u'hnut twelve days!
time we made land, in the l titnilc of five degrees south of the Line, lrei
north-eastcrmust lnncl of :13! that part: of America. We kept on smith-ll) m
in sight of the shore. four (lays, when we made the ( p4 St. Aug} iine,:1nil
_. the old place ofmlv'

 

gone

 

   

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
   

 

 
 

 

in three- (lays czunn to am anchor oll'the Bay of All S
deliverance, From whence cninc both in}; good and evil title.

Never did a ship come to this part that haul less business Linux I. hml ; and
yet; it was with. great difficulty that we were admitted. to hold the least corre-
Not my pm'tncr himself, who was alive, and made a
two merchant trustees, nor the Fame 0? my
mil, could obtain me that lawnr; but my

 

spomlencc on shore.
great. figure among them, no: my
wonderful preservation in the i
 

partner, remembering that I had given five hundred moidores to the prior of
tho monastery of the Anguslines, and three hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went, to the monastery, nnd obliged the prior than than was to go to
the governor, and beg leave for me presently, with the captain, and one more,
besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more; and this upon condition
absolutely annihilated for, that we should not ofl'er to land any goods out of
the ship, or to carry any person away without licence.

They were so strict w 11 us as to landing any goods, that it'was will) extreme

_ difiicnlty that I got. on shore three holes of English goods, such as fine broad-
cloths, stuffs, and some linen. which I had brought. for a present to my partner,

He was a very generous broad-hearted man, though (like me) he came from
little at first; and though he know not that I had (he least design ot' giving
him anything, he senl. me on board a prosent of fresh provisions, wine, and
swectmoals, worth above thirty moidoros, including some tobacco, and three or
four fine medals in gold. But; I was even "with him in my present, which, as I
have said, consisted of fine brood-cloths, English stnfl's, lace, and line Hollands.
Also, I delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in the
some goods, for other lures; and I obliged him to set up the sloop which I had
hronghtwirh me from England, as l have said, for the. use o[' my colony, in
order to rend the refreshments I intended to my plantation.

Accordingly he got hands, and finished the sleep in a. very few days, for
she was already framed; and I gave the innster ol' hor such instructions as he
could not miss the place; nor did he miss it, as I had an account- from my
partner sl'torwawda. I got him soon loaded with thesmoll cargo I had sent
them; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore with me Llioi'e, viii-roll
to go with tho sloop, and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard,
to allot. him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation, and giving him
some clothes, mid tools for his planting work, which he said he under-
stood, having been on old planter in Maryland, out! a. bnocanccr into the
bargain.

l encouraged the fellow, by grouting all he desired; and, as an addition, I
gave him the savage whom we had (alien prisoner of war to be his slave, and
ordered the governor Spaniard lo give him his share of everything he wanted,
with the rest. '

When we came to ill; I. man out, my old partner told me, there was a.
certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his, acquaintance, who had fallen
into the displeasure of the church. "' I know not what. the matter is with him,"
says he, " but, on my conscience, I think he is a heretic in his heart 5 and he
has been obliged lo conceal himself lYor Yam: ol' the Inquisition; that he would
he very glad of such an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and two
(laughlars; and if I would let them go to the island) and allot them a plantation,
he would give thorn :1 small stock to begin with; for the officers of the
Inquisition had seized all his oil-outs and estate, and he had nothing left but a
little household stnli', and two slaves; and," adds he, "though [ hate his
principles, yet I would not have him fall into their hands, for he will assuredly
be burnt alive if he does." I

I granted this presently, and joined my Englishman with them; and we
concealed the man, xmd his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till the.
sloop put out to go to sea; and than (having put all their goods on board the
sloop some time before), we put them on board the. sloop,-nfier she was got
out of the bay- '

Our seamen were mightily pleased with this new partne'; and their sleek,
indeed, was much alike rich in tools and in preparations for n. fan-m; hut
nothing to begin with, but as above. However, they carried over with them
[which was worth all {he rest) some materials for planting sugar cumrs "ith
some plains of cnnes, which he (i mean the Portugal man) wider-stood vm;

Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the island, I sent them,

by this sloop, three milch cows and fire calves, about twenty-two hogs among
them, three son-s big with pig, and two mares and a horse. - '

For my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal
women to go; and recommended it to them to marry them, and use them
kindly. I could have procured more walnut, but I remembered that the poor
persecuted man haul two daughters, and there were but five of the Spaniards
that wanted; the rest hm! wires of their own, though in another country.

All this cargo arrived. safe, mid, us you may easily suppose, very welcome
to my old inhabitants, who were now (with this addition) between Sixty and
sevent}r people, besides little children, of which there were a great many. I
found letters at London from them all, by way'of Lisbon, when I came back*g'er-wmw*remt~'m= -

:\DV}3N'I'|:REE OF ROBINSON ClillfiOl-I.

 

to England, being sent. back L!) the Brazils by his sloon; of which I a
some notice in in: place.

I have now (lane with my island, and all manner of discearse about 15.; and
whoever reads the rest of my me: oremlnms, would do well to turn his
thoughts entirely from it, and expect up read only of the follies of an old 2mm,
not warned by his own harms, much lees by those oi" other men, to hewnm of
the like; not cooled by alumat forty years' misery and (lisappoinhnenfs; not,
satisfied. with pruspcrity beyond cxpectai-ions; not made millions by nl'l'lictien
and distress beyond imitation.

l had no more hnsiness to go to the East. indies than 51 man ai, lilll lib
and having committed no crime, has to go to {he turnkey at Neaa'gate;zil1tl
desire him to loci: him up among the prisoners there, and starve' m. Hml I
taken a small vessel from England, and gone. directly to the island--41ml I
lorrled her, 5.1 l, (lid the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plants on,
mid .i'ou my people--look a patent. For the government hero, to have secured
my preperty, in snbjectiou only to that 01' England, which, to he sure, I might
have olflninei--had I carried over cannon, zumminition, servants, and peoplx': to
plant, and, taking possession. of the place, fortified and strengthened iiin the
name of Englwnl,and increased it, with people, 95 I m _:ht EUR21,1in hM'e dune---
had I then settled myself there, and sent. the ship hack loaded with gone rice,
as I might also have done in six months' time, and. ordered my friends to have
fine/l her out again for our supply--had I clone this, and staid Linn-c myself, I
hat/Lat least, acted like a man of common sense: lml. I was anF",..e(l with a
wandering spirie, scorned all advantages, pleased myself with being the pain)"
nl'these people I had placed there, and doing for them in o hind of llaugligf
majestic way, like an old patrim'ohal monarch~pruvidieg for them as it" I lxad
hlzan Fol-her oi'ilze whole family, as well as of the plaumtion: but I never so
much as pretended to plant in the name 01' any government or nation, or to
"knowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects to any one nation mom
than mother--nay, I never so much :15 gave the ylacc a name, but left it as I
lblmd it, belonging); to no men, and the people under no discipline av Govern-
ment but my own: who, though I hail an influence over them an: lather and
benefactor, had no a'utlrim'it}r or power to act or command one way or other,
lit her than volunlm'y consent moved them to comply" yet- even (higlnull
at Ll there,-w:>uld have done well enough; but: as I .r..nhlccl from them and
came anther no more, the last letters I had from any of [1mm were by my
partner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop to the plate; and who
sent me word, lltmggh l had not the. letter till live years after it was written,
l-lme they want on but poorly, were malcontcmt with their lung 5.3137 there---
that Will Aiki'ns was (leadmthm': live ol' the Spanisrcls were come away--21nd
theL though they hall not been much molested by the six-rages, yet the}r ail.
had some skirmishes will). them--(lint they bags; of him to write to me to
think of the promise I had made to fetch them imay, that they might see their
own country again before they died,

lake
 

Bur I was gene a. Wde-goase chase, indeed, and they who will lun'c anv
more ov" me, in " he content 1/.) follow me ilirougli n new variety of follies,
hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the justice of Providence rim he duh.-
ohservnd, and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us wirh'mn- owir
desir '_. inulu- tho strongest of our wishes in be our affliction, and punish us
most severely with those very things which we think it would be our utmost
happiness to be allowed in.

L2: no wise man flatter himself with the strcngih of his own judgment, as
El'hn were <<'17:: to choose any particular station oi'life for himself. Man is n.
short--sighed. creature--sees inn. :1. very liitlc way before him; and as his pas-
sinus are nonn ol' his hast; friends, so his particular nil'eotions are generally his '
worst counsellors.

I my this with walnut to the impoiuous desire I had, from a youth, to
. wmider inio the world, and how evident it new was that this yrinciple was
) . Purser-v01! in me For my punishment. How ii; came on, the manner, the cir-

 

   
 
 
   
 

 

cumstance, and the conclusion of it, . is easy to give you hisbuflcnllv, mid with
utmost variety of particulars. But the secret ends of Divine I'rnvidmre, in

 

thus permitting; us to he huri'ied down Lhn stream of our own dosirua, are only g

L0 be understood. ol' those who can listen to the voice of Providuice, and draixr E?
reli ions consequences from God's justice and. their own nustakcs. \' '
13s it I had business or no business, uwuyI went. It is no time now to E
enlarge any further upon the reason or absurdity of my own conduct; hut k
to mum to the history--I was emlmrkcd. for the W, E
went. ' S
.i shall only :Lild here, that in}" honest. and truly pious clergyman loll. mu g
.
l

e, and. the voyage l

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

here --a. ship being randy to go to Lisbon, he asked me lcm'c: Li) go thither;
1min; 'till, as he observed, hound never to finish any voyage he begun. How
ham," had it been for me if I had gone with him!

But it, wns too late now--all things Heaven appoints are hast. Ila-'1 I gone
with him, I had never had so many things to be thankful for, and you had.
never heard ol' ihc second part ol the 'l'mv is and Adventures ol' Robinson

1
VJrnsoe; so I must leave here the PSmitless exoluiming at myself, and nu on with g;

   
  

 

my v0 'age.

ii: on: tho .Brnzils we. 1118le directly away over the Atlantic Sun to the Cape
do Bonne Esperancc, or, as we call it, the Cape of Good Hope, and had a
tolershic good voyage, our course generally south-east; now and then a storm,
and some contrary winds. But my disasters at 5951 were at m end--my future
ln. appear the land

    

 

rubs and cross events were to hel'all me on shore--than": )
was as well prepared to be our scourge an the son, when Heaven, who directs
the circumstances or" things, pleases to appoint it to be 59.

Our ship was on :1 trmling voyage, and 'mid a snporcm'go on board, who
was. to direct all her motions nfler she arrived at the Cape; only being; limited
to a certain nunihtsr of days for stay, by charter--pal .t Lint several parts she
was to go to. This was none of my business, neither did I meddle wiL'n it at:
<<--SS-{W

 

 

 

..~

i ~1-
, ,. _ .\ .
@hsrsamwww um i. amm'flaWWw

ADVENTURES 01" IIOIUNSON CRUHOE.

all; my nephew, the capluiu, and the super-cargo, adjusting all those things
between them as they thought fit. _

We made no stoy at the Cape longer than was neonli'ul to take in fr it water,
but made the best of our way for the coast ol' Coromumlcl; "'0. were, indeed,

 

informed that a French mun-oliwar of fifty guns, and two large merehnntships,

 

 

were gone for the Indies: uml as l knew we were at war 1th France. I had
some apprehensions of them ; but they went their own way, and we heard no
more of thorn.

I Elm" not pester my account, or the reader, with descriptions of planes~
journals 0? our voyages, variations of the cmnpnss, latitudes, meridirm distances,
trade-winds, situation of ports, and the like--finch as almost all the histories of

 

long navigation are full of, and which make the reading tiresome enough, and
are perfectly unprofitable to all that read, except only to those who are to go to
those places themselves.

It is enough to mm: the ports and places which we touched at, and what
occurred to us upon our pnssing from one to another. We touched first 91
the island of Madngnsear, where, though the people are fierce and treacherous,
and, in particular, very well armed with lances and bows, which they nse with
inconoeivahlc dexterity, yet we fared. very well with them awhile; they treated
us very civilly, and for some (rifles which we gave them, such as kniVCS,
scissors, 5%., they brought us eleven good fat hulloclts, middling in size, but

408. -.--_----- ..., 1-M'

_,VAm>ENTL-m-:s 01c nomxsox (:nurso fi'\

  

very goon m flesh, which we tau};
spending, and the rest to salt.

.. ll

m. :9 'vlndnngn-n]

[The

We were obliged to stay here for some Lune aft-w we had furnished nur-
seh'es with provisions: an} I, that was always too curious to lmzk into every
' neck of the world wherever I came, was for going on shore as often as I
could. It was on the cast side of the island that we went onshore one evening,
 

and tlm people, who, h3- Llle way, are verymnnerous, cmnc tin-angling aboul
us, and stand gazing at ms at A distauct'. A3 m) had traded freely with them,
and had linen <<kindly 115ml, we thouvvht ourselves in no danger; hul. when we
saw 11w, people, we cut threu lmughs out oe' a. tree and "Luci: them up at a dis-
tance from us, which, it seems, is. a mark in lhc country not only of ' a and
friendship, imt, when it. is accepted, the other side set up threa poles or houghs
also which is a signal that they accept the truce too; but then thia is :1 known
cuu . {ion of the truce, that You are not to pass beyond their three poles towards
them, nor they cmno past _ ur three poles or imughs towards you ; so that you
aux-1pc: 1.5:! secure within the three poles and all xlm space betwaen ynnrpnlos
and Ilu. 1-3 is, allowed, like a market, for . converse, Hallie, and commerce.
When you go thither, you must noi- mrr our weapons with you; and if they
conmint'o that spawn, they stick up thci. Javelin: and. lnnces all at the first
poles, 313:1 come on unarmed; but, if any violence is oiil' Shem, and the true:
thereby broken, may they run to the. pales, and. lay hold ui' rliuir weapons, and
than the truce is at an and.

11. happened. one waning when we went. on shore Ills! a greater mimlmrof
their people came down than usual, but all was very friendly and ciril. They
Brought with them several laiml; ot'_ provisions, for w sch \m aniieficd them
ll such toys as we "had; their women also brought us milk and roof: and
several ihingomry accept o m us, and all was quiet: and W0 made us u little
tent, or hut, of some lionghs of trees. and lay on share all that. night.

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well sarislied 1.0 lie. on
shore ms the rest: and the boar. lying at an anchor about a. stone's cast. from the
land, with two men in her to tulil.' care of her-,1 made one of them come on
sign-e: and, netting some Lough: of treat) to cover us also in the boat, I spread
the. snil on the bottom al'thc boat, and. lay on board, under the cover of the
branches of the trees, all night.

Abom. two o'ulnck in the morning. we heard out: of our men make a terrible
min on the shore, calling out for (i'ofl's sake to bring the hon: in, and come
and help them, for they were all like to be murdered; nuke same time I heard
the firing of five muslmts, which was the rmmher oi' tho guns. they had, and
that three times over; for it seems the natives here were not. so easily
1' 'gghmncd with guns'ns the savages Were in America, where I lmd to do
with them.

All this while I knew not what was the matter; but rousing immediately
from sleep with the noise. I caused the heal: in be thrust inmml newly-ell, with
three fusils we hurl on hoard, to lmzcl and as at our men.

We got the heal: soon to the shore; but. our men were in too much haste ;
for, living come to the shore, they plunged into the water to get to the hunt
with all the expedition they could, being pursued "by between three; and four
hundred men. Our men were but nine-in all, and only live had fusils; the
rest, indeed, hail. pistols and aworclfi, but they were of small use to them.

We took up seven of our men, and with diiliculty enough mo, three of them

410
" WWWWWM

ADVENTURES 01" ROBINSON "RUSOE.

    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

being very ill wounded; and that which was still worse was, that while ,
stood in the boat to take our men in , we were in as much (longer as thov were
in on shore; for they poured their arrow in upon us so thick, that we were
thin to hurt file the side of the has: up with the benches and two or three loose
boards, when to on:r great satisfaction we. had by more nccident, or providence
rather, in tin: boat.

 

 

And war>> had it been daylight, they ure,it serum, snob exact marksman, that
if they could, have seen but the least pm't ol' any of us, they would have been
snrc Cu" us. "'0 had, by the light of the moon, 9. little eight ol'ihcm as. they
stood peiting us from the shore with dam and arrows; and having; got run
our lira-21mm, we gave them :I. volley, and we could hear by the er s of no
of them, that We had wounded several; however, they stuud thus in battle
array on the short: tillvbreak of day, which we suppose rim that they might see
the better to take their aim at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor, or set
up our mail, because we must needs sixnd up in the boat. and they were as sure
to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. Q

We made signals of distress to the ship, which, though sim rode: lepgne
oil} yet my nephew, tho captain, hearing our firing, and by glaxses lie", .iring
the pasture we In},' in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well under--
nLoud us; and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he
clurst with the ship, and then sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist
us; but we called to them not to come too near, telling them what condition we
were in. However thor stood in nearer to us; :md or . oi' the men taking: the.
end ofe tow line in his hand, and keeping on): boot between hint undthe enemy,
so that (hay could not perfectly see him, swam on board 115, and made the line
fast-to the. bout, upon which we slipt- our little cable, and leaving onr anchor
behind, they towed us out of the reach of the arrows, we all the while lying
clams behind the hurricude we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore; she could
lo).r her side to the s ore, we run along just by them, and we poured Hi abroad-
sitle among them, loaded with pieces of iron Hid lead, small lmllvts, and such
stuff, besides the great shot, which maulu a to?) thin havoc among; them.

When we were got on board, and on: of danger, we had time to examine
into the occasion of this frn and indeed our suporenrgo, who had been often
in those parts, put me upon it ; for he said he was anre the inhabitants would
not lmvatouchtd us '1. . ' we had made a. truce, if we had not done something
to provoke them to it. At length it came out, mm 1y, that an old woman, who
had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, with a young
woman with her, who also brought- auiiie roots or herbs ; and while the old
woman (whethcrshc 'us mother to the young woman or no they could not
tell) was selling us the milk, one. (if our men ofl'z'i'od some. rudeness to the {girl
that was with her, at which the old woman made it great: noise, l-lowe\'el'i"-"9
seamen would not quit his prize, hut curried her out of the old, woman's sight

an
 

among the trees, it being almost dark. The old woman went. away Without her,
and, as we suppose, made an outer}' among the neople she_came from; who
upon notice raised this great army upon us in three or four hours; and it was
great odds but we had all been destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at him, just at the
beginning of the attack, as ho snlliecl out, of the tent we haul made; the rest
came oil'l'roo, all lint the fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief, who
paid dear enough for his black mistress, for we could not hear what became of
him a grout while. We lay upon Lhc shore two days after, though the wind
presented, and made signals for him; made our boat sail up share and down
short; several leagues, but in rain: so we were obliged to give him over; and
if he alone had sull'cred for it, the 1055 had been the less.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore once more,
to try if l could learn anything of him or them. It- wzos tho third'nigllt
after the action, that I lmd a great mind to learn, ii'I could by any means, what
mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the Indian side. l was
careful to do it. in the dark, lest we uhould he attacked again; but I ought
indeed to have been sure that the men I went with had. been under my com-
mand, before I engaged in a. thing so hazardous and mischievous, as Iwas
brought into it without- iny knowledge or desire.

We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the super<<
cargo, and myself; and we landed two hours before midnight, at the some place
where the lndians stood drawn up the evening before. I landed here, because
my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they had quitted the field, and
if they had left any marks behind them, or of the mischief we had done them;
and I thought it" we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps we might- get
our man again by way of exchange.

We lauded without. any noise, and divided our men into two compnuies,
whereof the boatswaiu comimwdod one, and I the other. W'e neither could
lieu- nor see anybody stir when we landed; so we marched up, one body at. a
distance from the other, to the field of battle. At first we could see nothing,
it being very dark; but by mid bye our boatswain, that led the first party,
stumbled and fell over a dead body. 'l'lu's made them halt there a. while; for
knowing by the circumstances that they were at the place where the Indians
had stood, they waited for in y coming up. Here we concluded to halt till the
moon hogan to rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour, and then
we could easily discern the havoc we had xuuxle among them. We told two-
oud-thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead. Some
had an arm, and some n. log shot. oil", and one his head: those that were
wounded we supposed they had carried away.

When we had made, as I thought, o full discovery of all we could come at
the knowledge of, I was for going on board again ; but the buniswain and his
party often sent. me word that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian
town) where these dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and desired me to go along
with them, nucl if they could find them, as they still fancied they should, they
(lid not doubt, they said, getting a. good booty, and it might be the}r might
find Thomas J effigy>> there--that was tho. man's name we had lost.

Haxl they sent to ask-my leave to go, I knew well enough what answer to
have given them; For I would have commanded them instantly on board,
lmowing it was not a. hazard lit for us to run, who had a. ship and- n ship's
loading in om- charge, and a voyage to make, which depended very much upon
the lives of tho men; but as they sent me word they were resolved to go, and
only asked me and my company to go along with them, I positively refused it,
and rose uy (for I was sitting on the ground) in order in go to the boat. One
or two of the men begun lo importune me to go, and when I still refused
positively, began to grumhlc, and say they were not. under my command, anzl
they would go. " Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go with me 7
1 will go for one." Jack said he would; and another followed, and than

another; und, in a word, they all left. me but one, whom, with much (lllllcnlty
too, I persuaded 1.0 stay: so (he supprcargo and l, with one nuunweut. hack
to the boat, where, I told them. wcr would stay for than), and take cure to take
in as many of them as should lu- lelt for I told them it was a mad thing they
were going about, and snppu'setl most of them would run the Tale of Thomas
J emu-"5.

'l'hey told me, like seamen, they would wan-um it they would come all
again, and they would take care, the. So away they went. I onti'eutccl them
to consider the ship and the voyage: that their lives Were not then' own, and
than. they were entrusted wilh the vnynge in some. meusurc; that if they nus:
carried, the ship might he lost for want of their help, and that they could nol
answer it lo God and man. I said u great. deal more to them on that head,
but. I might as well have talked to the mainmnst of the ship; they were mad
upon their journey, only they gave me good words, zmrl begged I would not
be angry _: said they would he Very cautious, and they <<lid not doubl- hut they
would he back again in about an hour at farthest; for the Indiun'wwn, they
said, was not above half u mile oil", though they found il; above two miloshcl'orc
they got. to it.

l-Vcll, they all went away as above; and though file atlempl. was desperate,
and such as none but madmen would have :gone about et, to give them their
due, they went. about it warily us well as boldly. ' 'h v were gallantly armed,
timl. is true; for they had every man a fusil, or musket, a bayonet, and every
man a pistol; some of them haul broad rmtlasses, some of them lmn em, and
'the huatswnln and two more had pole--axes; besides all which, they had among
them thirteen hand-grenade". Bolder fellows, and holler provided, never
Went. uhoul. any wicked work in the world.

When the}r went out, their chief (leiile was plunder, and they were in
mighty hopes of finding gold them; but. .9. c. rumstnnco, which none of them
were aware of, set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of them all.
W hen the; cnme to the few Indian houses, which they thought had been the
WW": which were. not Above half a. mile all". they worn under a great disap-
pointment; for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses: and w 'ucrn the
town was, or how big, they know 110?. 'l'lmy consulted, therefore, what to do,
and were some time before they could resolve 5 for, if they fell upon those, they
must cut all their throats, and it, was lieu to one lull. some of them might escape.-

- w iu llie night, though the moon was up; and if one escupcil, he would
run away, and raise all the town, so they should haw: a whole army upon
them: Again, on (he other hand, if they went away, and left those. unlonclmd
(l'ur the people were all asleep), they could not tell which way to look for the
town.

However, the last. was the best advice; so they resolved lo leave those
homes, and look for the lmvn as well as they could, They went on a lilllu
w: and found a cow tied to a. tree; this they com-lulled would be n good'
guide lo @310)"; il)!' l'll :utl the cow cerluinly hrlongorl to the town before
them, or the town behind them, and if they untiud her, they should see which
way she. want: if she went back, they had nothing to my to her, but if she
Went forward, they had nut-hing to do but to follow her; so the); out the cowl.
whirh was made of twisted flags, and the now went on before them. In a
word, the. Cow led them directly to the town,which, as they reported, consisted
of :levc two hundred houses, or hum ; and in some ol' these they found several
families living together.

Here they found all silent; as profoundly secure as, sloop and :1 country that.
had never seen an enemy of that kind could make them. Upon this: l-hnj
mrllod another council 1n consider what they haul to do, and in a word they
resolved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set three houses on fire
Abvnx'rnnas or nomxsox cncsoxc.

in three parts of the 1mm, and :15 the mun came. out, to seize them and hind
them: if {my resisted, tlmy need not. he nrkml what to (lo than, and so to search
the rest of the houses for p.untlur; but resolved to march silently "12% through
the town, and. see what dimensions it was of, and mnsieer if they might renlurn
upon 1: or no.

They (lid so, and desperately resolved that. they would Venture upon them;
but while they wore mtimnzing one another to tho worlr, thran ol' lhoin that
were 5: little bei'ore the rest, called out aloud, and tohl them tlluv i found
'j'homzs Jel'fi-ys; "my all ram up in the place. and so it was, indeed, for then-v
they found the poor fellow hanged up naked hy one arm, anti his throat. out.
There was on Indian house just by the tree, where they ibnnd sixteen or seven-
teen of the principal Indians, who had been concerned in the. frav with us
l): are, and two or three 0:" them wonnxlezl with our shot; and. our than linnul
they were awake, and talking one to another in that. house, but know not thrir
number.

The sighs. of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, or: hr .re, that
they swore to one another they would he revengerlfind that not. an lmlinn
who come into their hnuds should have quarter; and to work they "out
immediately, and yet not so mmlly wa hy the "e and fury they were in mi
be expecte'l. The care was to get. something that. would soon take fire;
but. after a. little search they found that. would. he to no purpuin, for must: of the
houses were low, and thatched with flags or rushes, of which L: country is
full ; so the]; presently made some wild-tire, as we call it, by wetting 1|
powder in the min>>; of their hands; and in a. quarter of in: hour they '
town on fire in four or live places, and particularly that houst' win. 0 the
lndians were not gone to bed. As soon as the. fire begun to blnzu, the poor
frighmd creatures began to rush out to save their lives, but me: with their
fate in the attempt, and. especially at the door, where they drove them lunch,
the liontswnin himself killing one or two with his pole- the house being
lnrge, and many in it,_he did not. dare to go in, hut called for :L howl-"mimic,
nntl Lhrew it among them, which :ll. fir l'righted them; hut. when it hnrsl.

 

  

 

   

   

 

 

 

 

made suxzh haven among them, that they cried out in a. hicleonr manner.

In short, most ol' the Indians whi) were in the open part of the house were
Mind or hurt. with the grenwloj CXCepi. two or three more who presmcl to the
door, which the huntswain and two more kept with the lmyonets in tho muzzles
ol' their pier s, and despalched all who came that Why. But there. was another
apartment in the house, where the prince, or king, or whatsoever he was, and
several. others, were; and they kept in till the hon-'0 which wus by this time
all vi" a light. Home, fell in upon them, and they were mnnthercrl or hum:
together.

All this while they fired. not. :i gun, because they would not "when the
people faster than they could nmstcr them; but the iii-o began to woken them
ust enough, and. our follows were glad to keep it little together in bodi for
the fire grew so raging, all the houses being made of light combhstihle stnfi',
that they could hardly bear the street between them, and their business was to
follow the fire for the. suror execution. As fast as the fire either forced the
people out of those houses which were burning, or Frighted them out of others,
our people were ready at their doors In knock them on the head, still calling
and hallooing to one another to remember Thomas Jeii'rys.

While this wns doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and especially when
I azuv the flames of the town, which, it- being night, seemed in be just. by me.

My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men, too, seeing such a
fire, was very uneasy, not. knowing what the. matter was, or what danger I was
in; especially hearing the guns too, for by this limo they began to use their
fine-arms. A thousand thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and the
supei'czu'go, what should become of us; and at last, though hn could ill 3pm,,

. any more men, yet, not knowing what oxigcnce we might be in, he takes
number boat, and With thirteen men and himself, comes on shore to me,

He was surprised to see me and the snperuurgo m the boat: with no more
than two men, fur one had been 1ch to keep thr- hnnt'. and though he was glad
that we were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know what
was doing, for the noise connnued, and the flame increased. I confess it was
next to an impossibility for any men in ihc world to restrain their curiosity of
knowing who: had happened, or (llml' concern for the safety of the men. In
a word, the captain told me he would go and help his men, lot what would
come. I argued with him, as I did before with tho. men, tho safety of the ship,
and the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and merchants, &c.,7" WmP--o-w--
ADVENTURES or ROBINSON unusuaw 93/:

i - _ - H_m_-_';d.m'

 

and told him I would go, and the two men, and nnlv see if we could
distance, learn whaf was like to he. Lin.- evont, and semi: hack and tell him.

It was all one to tall: to my ncgnliew, as it was in talk to the rest lml'orc- he
would go, he said, and ha only wished he had left but ten men in the ship: for
he could not think of having his men lost for want of help; he had rather he
said, lose the ship, Elk" vq go, and his life, and All ; and so away went he ,

Nor was I any inure able (0 stay behind now than I was m~ persuade them
not (-3 go before; so, in short, thr: nptnin ordered. Lwo men to row back the
pinnacn. and ("etch twelve men more from the ship, leaving the long-boat m an

, at a

  

 

 

anchor: and tlml when tlxeycnme hack. six men should keep the. two boats, v
and sixmorc come after us, so [halt he li-l't only sixteen men in the ship; for
the wlmle ship's company consisted of Si \t-five men, whereof two woro lost

    

in the first. quarrel which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the nmrch, you may he sure we felt little of the ground we
trad (m; and hi-ing guided by the lll'l', we kept no path, hm: went directly m
the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was surprising to us before,
the cries of the. poor people were now quite of unutluzr nature, and filled us ~
with horror. l must. mnfns: I never was at. the sacking oft; city, or at tho { '

417~ " - '9 ' .--------'---r-W
$(r)$W(r)EM~WIWM
ADVEKTUEES 01" liOlllNSON CRUSOH.

  

'0' 21.101 i by storm : l. have heard of Oliver (.mmrell taking Drogllctla
l, and killing; mnn, woman, and child; and I had read of Count Tilly
sacking: the city of Magdehourgh, and cutting llin throats oi' twenty-two
ill sexes; but I never lmd an idea of l-hn thing itself before,
which was upon our mind; at

     

 
  
     
     
      
     
   

   

:1
However, we went. on, and at length came to the town, though there was no

entering the streets of it for the fir .

' The lift) ohjcct that we met x ' l was the ruims or s: lint, or house, or rather
the ashes o , for the harass was cons-tuned; and just before it, plain now PS0
be 5mm 13' tho light of the fire, In}; bur men nail three "while" killed; 11ml,
as we 9 on t, one or two more lay in the heap among the um. ln she-rt,
..i:x_~'.i immuces ohm rage altar/ether has: :u'ous, mid of 2i fury mm:
tho-g beyond what \"flfi human, tlmt we thought it imposrihla our men could
be guilty of it : cr, if'tho'xf were tlm anchor-3 of it: we thought tl ' one
r-I'ihc-m might (ohm-1 put. to tlu; arms>> or x" 5 B1 i was not all; \\
the fin: ll Sail. flu-ward, min] the cry Went on jn the lire went on, so
that we were in The utmosl. canfusipn. We advanced a, little way -l':irt'ner, and
\5tanishment, three \Tumml naked, or g in a most dreadful
. liner, and fig ., as if they had indeed harl wings, und :ificr tlaem sixteen
av: seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and constersiminn, with three
01" our English Butchers (for I can call timm no butter) in the rear, who, when
they would over who them, fired in among ilirm, marl onn Ll: . was killed by;
" l (Em-'11 in our sight: when the rest. SAW us, believing us to he
and that we would murder tlmm as well as those that pursued
up a most (lrr-adf'ul Sill'lflkgfilipcciully the women, and. two ol'llioni

' {iv dcurl, with the fr 'hli.
"k within me, and my blood uni chill in my veins, when
, h sailors that 1: nrsncd the-m come
on, I had "male our men kill them all. Iluwnxer, we took some wn_ to let
the your flying cream: :4 know that we would not hurt them, and immediately
they come up tn us, and. kneeling down, with :1 ir ands lil'mri 11y, made
we. llwm, which w lul. them know we would

 

 

 

 

          

    

         
         
     
 
    
     
  

 

tl: 121, th _
l'cll down, us i

1\' y soul slu
and I balk-re 12ml llIC: t'lu'c.. Eng.

  
     

      
 

     

    
   
      
   
   
        
 
         
     
  

 

   

 

     
  

-lI.og-:lhr:r in a huddle close linllind us for protec-
.wn up together, and Phargetl than: to hurt nobody,

(lo; W
tlou.
but il" 1m

 
   

1; mini d1"
.- l at: some of our people, :1 see what devil : was put;-
at they intended to do; and, m a word, to command them
ring the") that. if they staid till Lla A ' t, l-ltt'y \rmild have {I hundred
thousand men about their cars--I en I, left them, and went among those
flying people, taking only two of our mes; with me; and there was indeed a
pitcous spectacle among them; some of them liarl their Fact terribly burnt with
n. mpling mid running through the fire, others their hands l)ll}'l'.l.; one of the
women had Fallen down in the fire, and was nlmnsl burnt, to d .tl: liel'orc she
cnuld get ouL again: two or three of the men had cuts in their backs um!ADVERTISERS 02-" ROBISSON \'

   
 
 
 

vhs, from our men pureu'
(lied while. I. was there.

1 would l'nin ltzwe learnt what the occasion of all this was, inn, 1 could not.
understand one word they said, though lJ'J signs I perreivecl that some of them
knew not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terrified in mv thoughts
at. Ehia outrageous attempt, that I 0011ch not v there, but want In: to my
own men: I told them my resalution, t cgmmanded them m Hallow me;
when in the very moment, came l'nur of our men, with the lunar-twain at: their
writing m'm' 'the heaps: ui' l'Ioflies they had killed, 2;!) Curm'CI'I with lvlaull
and st, :15 if they \mutcd lzioi'u pedple to I'JRHHOTC; when 0111' mm lmllnoeil
to' threat as loud as they could "milk-o, -
them hear, so that the}' knew who we r r, and <<:nme r to us.

As soon as the ho wain saw Im,l\c ..3: up u hnlloo, l. c :1 rJiont: ni' triumph,
for having, as he thought, more help come; and without in n; in hear me,
"Gap: ' ," snys he, "iznlile captain,I nan glad you are <<:0 We have not
half done yet; ' l'cll-lmunrl (lu I will kill as many or them as poor
Tom has lvairs'upbn his 1 iii. "'(2 have sworn to spare mum (il'lhmn ; we will
not an: the very Wine of them from the earth." Anal thus In>>. run on, out. at"
Ezra too with a.. ion, and weuld not give us leave to speak a "'01-.-

At l2 ng my Voice, that I might silence him a. little, "Burhnrum
8.0;; l" smfl, I, "what are you doing? I won't have (me creature {one zecl more
1111-311 [min of death; I charge you upon your life to stop your hands) and stand
still here, or '011 are (I, {lead mam this minute."

" W'hy, sir; says he, "(lo you know What" you (In, or what they
If you want a. reason for what we hr, '9 (10113, con'm hither ;" and 1.
showed me the poor fellow hanging upon a tree with his throat enl.

Iconi'ess l. was urgril (hen mvseli', and a: another time Sltnllld have I:
Forward enough ; but I thou}. E. il lmd car "ed their rage too far, and thonght
ol'Jacoh's words to his sons Simeon and Lea, "(f-urged he their anger, l'nr it
was fierce; uncl their wrath, lb)? it was crnn ' But I had now a. new task ugmn
my hands; for when the men I carried with me saw tlze Eight as I hail done,
I had. us'muclt to do to rail-min them, as I should have had. wkh the others;
"9331'"3' negliew himself fell in "ml: 9.: , :1an told "us, in 'h r hearing, that
he was only concerned for fear of the me): lming orcrpon-ou.m for as in the
people, he thought not one of them ought to live; litr they 11ml :. "flutteil them-
selves with the. murder of the peer 1mm, nnd t they or f to he used like
murderers. Upon these words. away rum ci ht of my man With the honiswaizi
alt-fl his crew, L0 complete their 'aody war 5 and I, seeing it quite on! of my
power to rest-min them, came an pe 'e and and, for I cunlcl not bear the
sight, much less the liorrihle noise and uuea of the poor wretche: that fell into
their hands.

   

'. and mmrher v. :15 shot through the hotly, and

 
   

  

   
 

'l with much ado our: of them made

 

     

 
   

   

Ill

 

  

 

   

 

 

    
 

. (lone?

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

     

  

   

     
      

  

with the-so. I wnlketl hurl: to fix! lZ-mtis. It; was A very grc.
me, I confess, to venture back as il; were alone: for us it began now in lzc

mm

 
  
 

--w

=6 .
*C/__._..

WWW

n W, .<<cscxyz.

malmost day, and the alarm had run over (he country, there stood about forty
men, armed with latices and bows, all a. little place where the twelve or thirteen
lionsea stood, mentioned before, but by accident {missed the place, and came
ditectlyto the sea-side; and by the time I got to the sea-shin it was broad
day; immediately I took the pinnace and went aboard, and sent; her back to
assist the men in what might happen.

Iobserved, that about. the time I came to the hontsicle, the fire was pretty
well out, and the noise abated; but. in about half an hour al'ter I got. on board,
lheard a volley of our mon's fire--arms, and saw it great smoke; this, as I
understood afterwards, was our men falling upon the forty men, who, as I
said, stood at the few houses on the way; of whom they killed sixteen or Seven--
teen, and set all those houses on fire, but did not meddle with the women or
children.

By the time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace, our men began
to appear; they came dropping in some and some, not in two bodies, and in
form, as they wont-out, but all in heaps, straggling here and therein such a
manner that a. small force of resolute men might have cut them all ofi'.

But the dread of them was upon the whole country. The people were
amazed and surprised, and so frighted, that I believe a hundred of them would
have fled at the sight. of'lmt five of our men. Nor in all this terrible action
was there a man who made any considerable defence; they were so surprised
between the. terror of the fire, and the sudden monk 05' our men in the dark,
that they knew not which way to turn themselves; for if they fled one way,
they were met by one party, if beak again, by another; so that they were
every where knocked down. Nor did any of our men receive the least hurt,
except one who strained his foot, and another had one oi'liis hands very much
burnt.

I was very angry with mynephcw, the captain, and indeed with all the men,
in my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting so out ol'liis duty,
as commander of the ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in
his prompting rather than cooling the rage 01" his men in no bloody and cruel
an enterprise. My nephew answered me very respectfully, but. told me that
when he saw the body of the poor oeanzau whom they had murdered in such a
cruel and barbarous manner, he was not master of himself, neither could he
govern his passion; he owned ho slmuldnm: ha w done so, as he wascommander
ol'thc ship ; but as ho was a man, and nature 1110"ePSllliln,llc could not bear it.
As for the rest ol' the men, they were not subject to me at all, and they knew
it well enough, so they took no notice of my dislike.

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any More of it. Our men
dill'cml in tho account of the number they killed: some said one thing, some
said mother; but according to the best of their accounts, put altogether, they
killed and destroyed about a hundred and fifty people, men, women, and chil-
dren, and left not. a house standing in the town.

As for the poor follow, Thomas Jell'rys, as he was quite dead, for his throat

    

   

   
 

 

l
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

was so cut that his head Wm: half oil', it wuulcl do him no service in hrinu him
away; su they left him where they found him, only took him down fro; the
iron, where he was hanged by one hand.

HOWever just our men thought this actiun tv be: 1 was naainst them in it,
and I always, after that time, told them God would blast the vovnge foil
looked upon the blood the)- slied that night to be xmxrder in them ; "for though
it is true that they hillad Thomas Jain-3's, yet it was us true that. Jcil'rys was
the aggroswr, had broken the truce, and had violated or debauched a young

wwhan of theirs, who came to our camp innocently, and on the faith of their
capitulntlon. -

 

' -'u defended this quarrel when we were afterwards on lmm'd.
He said it. was (rue that we seemed to bread: tln; truce, but really had not, and
that the war was begun (he night before by the natives themselves, who had
allot at us, and killed one of our men without any just provountion; so that as
we were in a capacity to light them, we might also be in n capacity to do our-
selves justice upon them in an extraordinary manner; thal, though thcpuor
man had taken liberty with :1 girl, he ought not to have been murdered, and
lhat- in such a villanmls manner; and that. lhc)' (lid nothing but what was just,
nnfl what. lhe laws of God allowed to he (lone to murderers.

One would think this should havu been enough to have warned us against
going on shore among the heathem :md barbarians; but it. is impossible tomake

fll

:--
D
5"
o,
E;
m

 

_ ,.ADVEN'Ll'lElH-IS OF INJI'JXEOX (IRUSOIL

 

 

mankind 'wise but at their own cxpuricnce ; and their experience seems (.0 be
always of most use tojhcm when it is dearest bought.

We wera now lmnnrl to live gulf of Persia, :iml From thence to the coast of
Cotzinmndel, only to touch at S but the. clzicl' of the super: '5 design
in); at the Bay of Bengal, where, if he missed of the baselines outward bmmd, ho
was to go up to China, and return to the cans: :15 he again harm.

The first disaster that heft-l us was in the gulf of Persia, where five of our
man, venturing on ashore on the Amhisn sinlo. oi the Gulf, were snrrnunalel by
the Arabs, and either all killed or curried away into slavery; the rest o." the
hc- 3 crew were not able to resme them, and had but jusl. time to gel nfli
lltnir bout. l began to npln-nid them mm the just mlribnliou ol'Hcm'cn in
this case; but: Lhe boatsn-nin very warmly told me, he tlwuglat I went; farllm': -
in my censures than) I could Show :mv Wnr="|nt for in Scripture, and 1"--"ei*;'er.l
to he thirteenth ol' St. Luke, 1: .. 4th, where our Sm'irmr intimates, that-
Ill/"e men on whom the to - of Silom'n l'cll were nol; sinners above all the
Gnlilemzs: but. that which indcad put me to silence in this case was, that rune
of those five men who wen} now lost, were of the number of those who went
rm Shara to the nmssxirre of Madagascar (so i Alway nllccl il', leng'n our men
ruulcl not "bear the word 5' massacre" will: any patience); and, inzlenrl, this
inst circumstance, as 'l'. have snid; put me to silence for the prcsmf.

Eat my frequent preaching to them on llxis sulijsrct had mu :3 consequences
than 1' nxpecied; utd the boalswx-in, who hail been the head oi' the attempt,
came up boldly to me 'one time, and told me he' found timil coniinu:
brought tlm'. nll'air upon the stiigc~~that l walla unjust reflection: upon in, and
had used llm men very ill on that account, and hiaxzselr" 'ixi particular--film: as
Iwns but a. pnsscngm-fiunl had. no comafinngl in th' 'liip, or concern in the
voyage, film}: were not bbliged in hear iL--lel. lhey !. . me know but I might
have some ill design in my head, and perhaps call fihexfl to an account for it
when they cnme to Englunde--mid that, thci-cfnrc, unless .1 would resolve to
have done with it, and also not 14) concern myself farther with him, or any of
his all rs, he would leave the a} p, for he did not think it was safe to sail with
me nmcng them.

I heard him patiently enungh tiil he had (lone, and then told him, that I did
confess I had Sill along opposed the massacre of Mafingascm, for such l W'ould
always call it; and than hall on all on .0115 spoken my mind l'mely about
it, though not more upon him than any a? the rest; that as to my
command in the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise any nutha
took l-he liberty n!" spanking my mind in things which publicly concerned us
all: as to whxtconccrn I land in the v0} 'e,tlmt ".3 none of his business;
stzs a consii'mrnblc (r r of the ship, ancrin 1.2m: claim 1 conceived I had a
right to speak, even farther than l lmtl yet (lone, nml would not be uccountnbln
to him or any one else ; and began to be a little warm will: him: he 'nie but
little reply to' mm at 13ml; time, nnd I ibonglu; ills: nli'nir haul been over. We
were at this time in (he road to Bengal 3 and being willing to see (he place, I
422

   

 

 

  

   

  

a
  
   
     
    
  

went, on shore with the supercnrgo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself; and
towards evening was preparing to gt: on board, when one of the men came to
megmd told me he would not have me trouble myscli'tn come down to the
heat, for they had orders not; to can . me on board. Anyone may guess
what. a surprise I was in at so insolen! a message; and asked the nimiflwhn
hnde him. delim): that errand to me? He told me the coxswain. I said no
'more to the fellow, but. Ludo him let. them know he had delivered his mess
and that I had given him no answor to it,

I immediately went: and found out the snpnrcargo, and told him the storr,
adding, what I presently foresaw, namely, that there would certainly huh
mutiny in thn ship; and entrcatcd him to go immediately on board the ship
in mi Indian hunt, and acquaint the captain of it; but I might. have spared this
inmlligencc, for before I had spoken to him on m, the matter was eflizctml
on board: Lhn hnatswain, the gunner, the carpentvr, and. in a. word, all Iln:
inferior officers; 3;; man a; l is one oi? in the hunt, came up to the (12m |'i.|"l'
(lack, and desired to Speak with the captain; and them the hunts in, limiting
a lo: 2 lmmngnc (for the fellow talked very well), and repca all he had
. d to m ., told the captain in a few words, that- us I was non' gone peaceably
on thorn, they were loath to use any violence with me,- which, it' I had not.
gone on shore, th- -' would. otherwise have done, to oblige mo to have gone.
'Nmy therefore thought {it to tell him, that: as they shipped the . i to
serve in the ship, under his cmnnmnd, they would perform it faithfully ; but if
Ivoul-zl not quit the ship, or the on main oblige m0 to quit it) l-i would all
0. the ship, and sail no fart h him; and at, that. word ALL, he tin-mil
nhom'. towards the nn' i--nmsl, which was, it seems, the signn! rig zed
cannen hiring brought togeilmr, "my cried

 

 

i9;

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

   
  

    

on between them, at which all fl

out, "One and .\I.l'.l One and ALLl '
My nephew, the captain, was a man ul" spirit and of grant presence of minrl;

 

and though he was surprised you may he szu . i the thing, yet, he told them
calmiylw would consider oi' the ma , hut: that he could (lo not in}: in it
till he had spoken to me about it; n, used some arguments with them, to
show them rho um'casmmhlcncss of the thing, but it was all in vain; they
and, shook hands round before lll$ fare, that they would go all on shore;
unless he would 02133543 to them not to mfl-'er me In come on board the ship.
This was uhurd zu: cle upon him, who knew his oblig ion to me, and did
not: know how I might take it; so he hogan to talk L-zwaliorly ta Lhmn--tuhi
them tlmt'I was :1. very considerable owner of the ship, and that, in jusfico, he
could. not put me At of my own house--that this was next; (loor to serving me
in! the famous ni Ln Kid had done, who made the mutiny in the ship, set the
cnptnin on shore on an uninhabited island, and ran {may with the ship--mat
let them go into who: ship they would. ever they came to England again,
it would cost them dear--<<that the ship was mine, and film: he would not put
. me put of ii~--nnr.l that he would rather lcse the ship, and the v0; e too, than
disoblige me so much-so they might do as they pleased. However, he
4%Anvuu'rum-zs 011 mmmsnx CRUSOE.
would go on shore, and talk \1i1l1 mo.- 111010., and invi1e<l the hoalswuin to go
' with him, and, perhaps, they might accommodate the matter with me.

But they all Injected the proposal, and snid'lhey would have nothing to do
with me any more,1:either on board 1101' on shore; 11nd, it" I cmne 1111 board,
they would go on shore. " Wall," said the captain, "' if you are all of this -
111i11d,letme go on shore and talk wi1h him:"' so away he came to me. whh
llxis account, 11 little after the massage had been brought in me from the

"KS" .1111

Iwns vex-h Glad to see. 1111 112111191151 must confess: lin' l "as not 1111110111
apprehensions lh'at they 11' ouhl confine him by xiolcnce, set sail, and 1.1111 away
with till: ship; and 11112111 had been stripped naked, in :1 rcmoh'. couniry, and

nothing 1>> help 1111sel1': in slm-'l l hml been' 111 :1. "-3190 case than 11 hen I was
all alone on the island.

But they had not come lo Lhat length, it spams, 11:1 my great satisfaction:
and when my nephew told me what they had said. to him, and how they had
sworn, and shook hands, that they wuuld one and all leave the ship, if I was
walked to come on honrd, I told him he should no: he concerned 11?. all, for I
would stay on shore; lonly desired he would 1:11:11 cnn- and send 1110111111151
necessary things on shore, and leave me :1 sufiicicnt sum of money, and I would
find my way to England as well 113 I could.

'l h"; was 11 hcnvv piece M news to 111v 11cpl1e\1~'; hm there was 110 w: 1y 10
help it, but 11) comply with i1.So, 1n shark i1e "(-111 on bomd the ship again
and satisfied the men that his uncle haul yielded to their impommitv, and hadsent for his goods i'rom on board the ship. So the nutter was over in a verv
few hours; the men returned to theirduty, and I began to consider what coursl'
I should ulcer. ' I
I was now alone, in the rcmolcst part of the world, as I think I may call it,
For I was nem- threc thousand leagues. by sea, farther 01? from England than I
was) at my island; only, it is true, 1 might travel here by land, mier tho. Great
Mogul's country to Surat; might go from thence to Bassora by sen, up fllfl Gulf
of Persia, and from thence might take the way of the caravans, over the deserts
of Arabia. to Aleppo and Scandcroon, and from thence luv sea :wuin to "HI"
and so overland into France: and this, put together, might be, a: hiasl, a full

 

diameter of the globe; but, if it'were to be measured, Iaupposc it would appear
to be a great deal more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait. for some English ships,
which were coming to Bengnl from Achin' on the island of Sumatra, and get
passage on board them for England, but as I came hither without any concern
will) the English East India Company, so u would be difficult to go from hence
without their license, unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, or of
the company's factors; and in hath I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the particular pleasure, Speaking by coutmrielies, to see the ship
set sail without me--a lgeatment, I think, a, man in my circumstsmccs scarce
 

over-mot with,oxccpt from pirates running away with the ship, and setting
those that would not. agree with thoir villnny on shore: indeed, this was the
next door to it both Ways. However, mynephcw loll: me two servants, or
rather, nno companion and one servant: the first was clerk to the parser, whom
he m god to go with me; and the other was his own servant. I tool: mc also a
good lodging in the house of an English woman, whore uevcrnl- merchants
lnrl ed, some French, two Italians or rather Jews, and one Englishman. Hero
1v. 1; handsomely enoug _6fltel'iainc(l; and that I might not he snid to run
rushly upon anything, I - hid hero above nine months, considering what conrsc
to take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods with mo of
value, and a. considerable sum of money; my nephew furnishing me wich n
thousand pieces of eight, and n letter of credit for more, if I had, occasion, that:
I might not he semitoncd, whatever might happen.

I quickly disposed of my goods, mu! to ndvzuitage, too; and, as I originally
intended, I bought 11ch some very good diamonds, which, o-l'nll other thing>>,
were the must proper for me, in my circumstances, because I might always
carry my whole estate about me.

Allen a long "my hero, and many proposals made for my return to England,
but none falling to my mind, the English merchant, who lodged with me, and
with whom I had contrach an intimate. acquaintance, come to me one
morning. " Country-man," says he, "I have a project to communicate to you,
which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for might I know, suit with yours
also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it.

" Hora we are posted," says he, " you by accidtmt, and. I by my own choice,
in :1 part of the world very remote from my own country; but it is in a.
caunlry where, by ms who understand trade and business, a great deal ol'
money is to be got: if you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds,
we will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds; you shall ho
mirtuin, I'll be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China; i'or
what should we stand still for? Tho Whole world is in motion, rolling round
and round; all the creatm'os of" God, heavenly bodies and em-thly, are busy
and diligent: why should we be idle? There are no drones," says he, " living
in the world but men: why should we be of that number?"

I liked this proposal very well ; and tho more because it: seemed to be
expressed with so much good-will, and in so friendly a manner. I will not
say bui- that I might, by my loose and unlzingcd circumstances, be the filter to
embrace n proposal l'or lrade, and indeed for nnything else; or otherwise trade
was none of In}; element; however, I might, perhaps, say with some truth,
that. if trade was not: my element, rambling ms; and no proposal for seeing
any part ol' the world, which I had never seen before, could possibly come
amiss to me.

it was, however, some time before we could get u ship to our mind; and
when we got an vessel, it \st not (easy to get English sailors; that is to any, so
runny as were necessary to govern the voyage, and-manage tho sailors whicham'nn'runns or ROBINSON cnuson.
we should pick up tllCl'E. After some time we got a mate, a. boatswain, and a
gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese l'oremastmcn: will:
these we found we could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as their
are, to make up. "

There are so many fravellers who have written the history of their voyages
and travels this way, that. it would he but very little diversion to any body to

' give a long account of the lJlQWGS we wcnl. to, and the people who inhabit there:
those things I leave to others, and refer the reader to those journals and travels
ol' Englishmen, many of which, I find, are published, and more promised every
(lay. IL' is enough for me to tell you {hat we made the voyage {A Achin, in thc
island of Sumatra, first: and from thence to Siam, where we ciohungcd sonic-
ol'onr wares for opium, and some for Arrack _: the first a. oomnm-Llitv which
hears'a great price among the Chineso, and which, at ihat. time, was V01) mucl:
wanted there: in a word, We went up to Snshani, made a very great. vovwc,
were eight months out, and returned to Bengal, and I was very well satisfied
with my adventure. '

I observe, that our people in England oftun admire how the. ransom whom
the camyamy send into India, and the merchants who generally slay there, get
such very good estates as the}r do, and some. limos come home worth 5'
seventy, and fl hundred thoumunl pounds at a time. But. it is no wonder, or
least, We shall see n'mch farther into it,wlmn we consider (-1.0. innnmnmlzlc ports
mid places where they hsxc :1- free conunerce, that it will then be no wonder;
and much less will i!: bu so, when we consider, that n: all those places and porn:
ville-re the English ships come, there. is so much, and such commit: demand for
the grnwlh 01' all other countries, that there is a. certain vent for the return, m,
wall as a market aim-ml lot: the goods carried out.

in short, we made 3 var" good voyage, and I got. so much money by the

. first adventure, and such an insight int/.1 the method of getting more, l, 3.1., had

f I been twenty years younger, I should have been tempted 1o have stayed here,

uud sought. no farther for making my fortune; but what was all this 1:0 3. man
on the wrong side of thraescore, that. was rich enough, and czune abroad more
in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire. ul'

gelling in it? And, indeed, I think if. is with great justice that I now call il.

a. restless desire, for it. was so : when I was at. lmmc, I was rest-less to go

almond; and now 1 was abroad, l was restless to he at. home. I say what was:

this gain to me? I was rich enough already; nor had I any uneasy ll". 0-"

about getting morn money; and therefore, the profits of Lhe voyage were thi
of' no great. force to me, for the prompting H1"- l'orward to lin'threr innlertakings:
hence I thought, that. lij' this voyage I had madu m) progrws nt- ull; lmcnnse

I was conic hack, a I might. call it, in Lhc place from whence I came, as to :1.

home ; whereas my eye, which, like that which Solomon speaks: of, was never
satisfied with seeing--r, s slill more desirous of wandering and. seeing. I was
come into a parl. or the world which I never was in helium-<<(Ll l(l that part, in
particular, which I had licard much of~zmd was resolved to see: us much Of it

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

 

 

    

4'2?
is 1 could; and than 1 thought} might say 1' had seen all the world that was
worth seeing.

But: my fallow-traveller and I had clifl'erent notions. I do not name this to
insist upon my own, for I acknowledge his was most just, and the most suited
to the end ofa merchant's life; who, when he is abroad upon adventures, it is
his wisdom to stick to that, as the best thing for him, which he is like to get
the most money by. Mvnow Friend kept himself to the nature of the thing,
and would have been content to have gone, like a carrier's horse, always to the
same inn, backwwl and forward, provided he could, as he called in, find his
account: in it--on the other hsmd, mine, as old as I was, was the notion of unmd
rumbling boy, that nevorcares to sea a. thing twice over.

But this was not all. I had a kind of impatience upon me'm be nearer
homo, and yet. the most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In
the interval of those consultations, my friend, who was always on the search
for business, proposetl another voyage to me, namely, among the Spice Islands;
and to bring home a. locxl oi' cloves from the Monillas, or thereahouts; places
where, indeed, the Dutch (lo' trade, but. the islands belong partly to the
Spifitim'ds; though we went not so fan-lint to some other, where they have not
the whole power, as they have at Bnmvio, Ceylon, M. We were not long in
preparing for this voyage: the. chief difficulty was in hri 'ng me to come into
it; however, at last, nothiug else offering, :uul finding that really stirring about
and trading, the profit being so grout, and, as I may say, certain, had more
pleasure in it, and more satislnetimt to the mind, than sitting still, which, to me
especially, was the unhappiusl 1):er of file, l resolved on this voyage too, WlliCh
we made very successfully, touching at Borneo, and several. islands, whose
names I do not remember, and came homo in about live months. We sold our
Spice, which .jns chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants,
who carried them away for the Gulf; and, making near five of one, we really
get :1 great. deal of money.

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me. "' W'ellniow,"
said he, with a. sonof an agreeable insult: upon my indolent'tcmper, " is not
this hotter than walking about here, like it man of nothing to do, and spending
our time in stirring at the nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans?" " Why
truly,"snid l, " my l'riond, i think it. is; find I begin to be a convert to the
principles of merchandising. But I must. cL-ll you," said I,"'hy the Way, you
do not know what: I am doing; for if onee I conquer my backwardness, and
embark Itezu'tily, as old as Inm, I shall harms you up and. down the world till
i tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lie still."

But. to be short with my speculations. A little while after this there came
in 9. Dutch ship from Botavia; she was a. coaster, not an European trader, and
of about two hrindretl tons burden: the men, as they pretended, having been so
richly, that the enptnin hurl not man enough to go to sea, he. lay lay at Bengal ;
and, as if having got money enough, or being willing, for other reasons,-to go
for Europe, he gave public notice that he would sell his ship: this came to myears before my new partner heard of it; and I had a great mind to buy it. So
Iwcnl home to him, and told him of it: he considered a. while, for he was no
rash man neither; but musing some time, he replied, " She is a little ma big;
but, however, we will have her." Accordingly, we bought the ship; and
agreeing with the. master, we paid for her, and took possession; when we had
done so, we resolved to entertain the men, it we could, to join them with those
we had, for the pursuing our business; hill. on a sudden, they not having
received their wages, but their share; <<if the money, as we afterwards luamt,
not one of them was to he found. We inquired much about them, and at
length were told that they were all gone together, by land, I.>> Agra, the great
City of the Mogul's residence; and from thence were to travel to Surat, and
so by sea to the Gulf of Persia. -

Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as that I missed the
opportunity ol' going with them: for such a ramble, I>> thought, and in such
company as would both have guarded me and diverted me, would have suited

mightily with my great design; and I should holh have seen the world, and
gone homcwards too; but 1 was much better satisfied a l'c-.w days war, when l
name to know what sort of fellows they were; for in short, their history was,
that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the commander;
that they had been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked 'on shore h3-
somc of the Malacmus, who had killed their captain and Lhree of has men; and
that after the; captain was killed, these men, eleven in number, had resolved to
runaway with the ship, which they did; and had lax-Pugh: her in at the Bay
of Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore; ol whom we shall
hear farther. .
W'ell; let them some by the ship how they would, we chine honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confessi, examine mm things sir
exactly as we ought; for we never inquired anything of me seamen, w 30, ll
we had examined, would certainly have filtered in their accounts, coutrurlmted
one another, and perhaps have coulmdicted themselves: or, one how or other;
we should have scan reason to have suspected them: but the 1mm showed us

421)M
a hill of sale for the ship, in one Emanuel Cloatershoven, or some such name
(l'or I suppose it was all a. forgery), and called himself by that name, and we
could not conundict him; and being withal a little too unwary, or at least
having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our bargain.

However, we picked up some English seamen here after this, nml some
Dutch, and we now resolved for a second voyage to the south-east, for do --s,
&-c.: that is to any, among the Philippine and Malacca isles; "LL-in short,
not tn fill this part of my story-with (rifles, when what: is yet 1.0 come is so
remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six years in this country, trading from
port to port, backward and forward, and with very good success; and was now
the last, year with my partner, going in thn ship above mentioned, on :1 Voyage
to China, but- designing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, lining by contrary winds obliged to heat up and down a
great while in the straits of Malacca, and among the islands, we were no
sooner got clear of these difficult seas, but we found our ship had sprung a
leak, and we were not able, by all our industry, to find out where it was.
This forced us to make for some port; and my partner, who knew the country
better than I did, directed the captain to put. into the' river of Cambodia; for
I had made ihn English mate, one Mr. Thomson, captain, not being willing to
take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river lies on this north side of
the gram, buy or gulf, which goes up to Siam. '

While we were here, and going often on short: for refreghmem, there comes;
to me one clay an Englishnnm, and he was, it seems, an gunner's mute on board
an English East India ship, which rode in the same river, up at, or near, the
City of Cambodia: what brought him hither we knew not; but he cnmes up
to me, and, speaking English, " Sir," says he, " you are a, stranger to me, and
l f>> you 3 but 1 have something to tell you that very nearly concerns you."

I lanked steadfastly at him for awhile, and he thought ac (first I had known
him, but I dill not. "If it very nearly concerns me," raid 1, "and no:
yoursalf, what moves you to tell it me? "--"I am moved," says he, "' by the
imminent dangzr you are in; and for aughl: l see, you have no knowledge ,
of it."-----"I know no danger I am in," said I, " but that'niy ship is
lanky, and I cannot find it out; but I propose to lay hcr aground to-morrnvr,
to see if I can find it."--" But>>, sir," says he, " leaky or not lanky,
find it, oi: not find it, you will be wiser than 1.0 lay your ship on shore
to~xnorrow, when you hear what I hnvc to say tn you. Do you know, sir,"
said he,"the town of Cnmhodia lies about. fifteen leagues up this river, and
there are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and three
D'ulch?"--" Well ," said I, " and what i: that to me l"--" Why, sir," says he,
' it for a man upon such adventures as you are, tn come into port, and not
examine first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to denl with
them? I suppose you do not think you are a match for them 1"" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive what
he meant; and 1 turned short upon him, and said, "Sir, I wish fan wouldnovnx'rtmas or" ROBINSON CRUSOE.

explain yourself; I cannot imagine what newton I have to be afraid of mm of
the Company's ships, or Dutch ships; I am no imcrlopcr; what- cnn they have
to soy to me .7" ' -

He looked like omen half angry, helt' pleased; and pausing; a. while, but
smiling, "W'ell, sir," says he, "if you think' yourself secure; you must tnlco

your chance--l am sorry your Fate shnnlrl blind you against quell :nlriro; hnt '

(\SSrn'c yourself, if you do not put. to sea. immediately, you will the very next
tide he attacked by five long--boats full 01' men; and, perhaps, il' you m-elnken,
you will he hanged for u pirate, and the nurtieulurs he examined into attor-
wsrds. I thought, sir," added he, " I should have met with a better reception
than i. ii: for (loing you a piece of servim of such ilnportnnccP--J' I mm "0'",
be luigrnlaefui," said I, "for any service, or to any man that oll'urs me anv
kindnea. but it is past my comprehension," said I, " what they should. hurl:
such a design upon me for: however, since you my there is no time to ho Inst,
and that there is some villnnons design in hand against- mc, I will go on hoard
this minute and put to son immediately, if my men can stop the leak. or if we
can swim without. stopping it: hut, sir," said. I, "' shall .1, go own}: ignorant of
tilt! reason of all this? Can you give me no further light into it '5":

"I can tell you but part of the story, sir" says he; " but I have a Dutch
seamen hero with me, and, I believe, I could persusirle him to tell you the rest;
bur. there is source time for it: but the short ol' the story is this, the first part.
of which, I suppose, you know well enough--nmnely, that you were with this
ship at Smuutm; that there your captain was murdered by the h'lnlncczzns,
with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were on bolu'Ll with
you, ran away with the ship, and are since turned PIRATES. This is the sum
of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure, not! executed
with Very little ceremony; for you know merchant ships show but little low to
pi ' ' if they get: them in their power."

"Now' you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you; and though I.
know nothing that we have done, like wh ' you talk of, but I am sure we come
honestly and fairly by the ship; yet seeing such work is n-doing, as you 32w,
and that you seem to moon honestly, I will he upon my guard. '----~" Nay, sii,'
says he, " do unit-ails of being open your guard; the best defeucu is to be out
of' the (hunger: if you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all your
men, put out to sea, without fail, at high water; and as you have a whole tide
before you, you will be gone too for out before they can come clown; for they
will come away at high water ; and us they have twenty miles to come, you'll
get near two hours of them hy the difference of the tide, not reckoning the
length of the wny; besides, as they are only hunts, and not ships, they will not
venture. to follow you far not to sea, especially if it blows."

" Well," said I, "' you have been very kind in this: what shall 1 (lo for you to
make you amends ?"--" Sir," says he, " you may not be so willing to make me
amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it: I will mnke an
offer to you; [have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship'----~,
 

which I came out of England in, and the Dutchman that is with me lfiis seven
months' pay due to him ; if you. will maize good our pnyto us, we will go along
with you; il'you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do
convince you that we have saved your life, and the ship, and the lives of all
le men in her, we will leave the rest in you?

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and. the two
men with me. As soon as I cmne to the ship's side, my partner who was on
board, came on the quarter-deck, and culled 10 me with a. great deal of joy,
"0110! 0110! we have stopped the lea:3"---"SSnyyou so ?"said I; "thank
God; but weigh the anchor, then, immediately ' " Weigh 1" says he, "what
do you. mean by that ? What is the matter 2'" says he. " Ask no questions,"

said I, " but all hands to work, and weigh without losing a. minute. He was
surprisecl: but, however, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered the
anchor to be got up, and, though the tide was not quit-.2 done, yet a little land
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea; than I called him into the cabin, and told
him the story at large; mid we called in the men, and (hey told us the rest. of
it: but as it took us up a great: deal of time, so before we had done, a 'senman
comes to the cabin door, and calls out to us that the captain bade him mil. us
we were chased. "Chased I" said I, " by whom, and. by what?"---" By five
sleeps, or boats," said the fellow, " full of men."-----" Very well," said I, " then it
is apparent there is something in it." _ In the next place, 'I ordered all our men
0&3??? A DVENTURES

to he called up, and told them that there was a design to seize the ship nml to
take us for pirates ; and asked them if they would stand. bv us nnd,bv one
another? The men nnsworml cheerfully, ono and all, that the"; would liviz and
3. die with us. Then I asked the captain what wny he rhonizlit best for us in
j manage a. fight with them, for resist them I resolved we wuulil, and that to ill-
i last. drop. He said readily, that the way was to hoop them all with cur <<rent
shuf- ns long as we could, and tin-n to fire at. lhom with our small arms, 1010011

them from hoarding us; but when neither of these would d0 smv lung'm', we

 

open our bulk-hands, 01' get. in upon us.

'y The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns to bent fore and

7 all, out of' the steerage, to clem- the deck, and load them with musket bullets

<< and small pieces of old iron, and what uoxt came to hand: and thus we nmde ll-
<< family" (or light, but all this while kept. out Lo sen, with wind enough, and could

.. M? the boats at a distance, lining five large long~lxoals, following us, with all I:

the sail they could make. '

I l
E slmnld retire to our close quarters--perhaps theyhml not inalmials tn lax-ml: i{am'ns'wuus 01" 1:031:80)! ezurson.

Two 0!" these boats, which, by our glasses, we could see were English, had
ouisnilod tho rest, were new two leagues a--hcnd of them, and ,gaineil upon us
considerably, so that we found they would come up with us; upon which we
fired a gun without a shot, to intimate that they should bring to, and we pui
out a. flag of truce as 51 signal for parley, but they kept crowding afmr us till
they came within Shut. Upon this, we tool: in our white flag. they having
iuzulcno unswor In it, 1:: ng out the red flag, 9nd fired at them with allot:
notw ,listancling this, they comb on till they were near enough to cull to them
with a 31mm - umpct which we hurl on board; so we called to them, and
luck: them kc .p of? at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded aft/er us, and eudoswourctl to come uncler our
stern, so to bouml us on uui' quarter; upon which, seeing they were resolute
for mischief, and depended upon the strength lhnt followed them, I ordered to
bring the ship to, so that. they 1in upon our broadside, when immediately
we fired live guns nt thank--one of them had been levelled so true as to
curry away Lhc stern of' the iiintleriuosi. hoot, and l-i-iiig.tliein to the ne-
cessil._y of taking clown their sail, and running all to the hand of the boat.
eu keep her from sinking--so she lay by, and haul enough of it; but
seeing the foremost hon: still crowd on after us, we made ready Lu fire at her
in particular.

While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being ('01--
warcler than the other two, made up to the boat which we had disahlell to
relieve her, and wt}. couhl ulim--wanlx see her talm out the men; we called again
in the foremost boat, and ofi'crcd n truce to pnrley again, and to know what was
her business with us; but had in) answer, onljr she crowned close uncler our
stern. Upon thin our gunner, who was a very (lcxteroua follow, ran ma his
two chase guns, and tired or her, but film shot missing, the men in the boat.
shoulezl, waved their caps, and came on ; but the gunner, gelling quickly ready
nguin, lived among them a second time, one shot of which, though it miuscd the
boat itself, yet fell in among thc men, and, we could easily see, lmd done a
grual. _dcnl of mischief among them; but we, taking no notice of that, wcnred
the ship Again, and brought our quarlcr to bear upon them, and, firing three
guns more, we found. the boat was split almost to pieces; in particular, her
rudder, and :1. piece of llCl' stern, were shot quite away, so they handed their
sail immediately, and were in great (15 order: but, to complete their misfortune,
our gunner let fly two guns at them again; where he hit them We could not
tell, but We found the haul. was sinking, and some of the men already in tho.
wn'uzr. Upon this, I immediately maimed, out our pimiauc, which wc had kept
close by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they couh'l, and
sure them from drowning, and. immediately to come on board with them,
because we smv the rest. of the boats began to come up. Om: men in the
pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men, one of whom was just
drowning, and it was a. good while before we could recover him. As soon in;
they were on board, we crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther
" :35)" C/$fl5m%_

ADVENTURES OF. .ROIHNEON CRCSOE.

out to sea; and we found, that when the other three home calm-.- up to the first
two, they gave over their chime.

fining thus delivered from a danger, which, though Ilmew not the reason
of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, I wok cam rh.
should change our coursn, and not let any one imagine whither we were {1 34;
so we stood out in sea eastward, quite out. of the course ni' all European isliip-s,
whether they were bound 00 China, or any where elsc within the commerce of
the European nations.

When we were now at sea, we hegan to consult with the two seamen, and
inquire, first, what the meaning; of all this should he 2" The 1)nlr-.hm;m hil. us
into the secret of ,it at once, balling; us, that the fellow that. Said us Lhu sh .
we said, was no mom than a. thief 11ml. hsd run away wilh her. Then he told
us. how the captain, whose name too he nwntiouecl, :hough I do not remember
it now, was trenchcrously murdered by the nnt'ives on the coast of Malacca,
with three or his men; and that he, this Dutchman, and {our more, got. into HM:
woods, where they wandered about :1. great. while, till at length he, in particular,
in a miraculous manner, mmlc hi. wpo, :unl swam 03' m a Dutch ship, which
sailing near the shore, in its way from China, had sent their limit on show For
fresh water--that he clurst not come [0 that part of the short: when>> the limit
was, but made shill. in the night to Lake in the water furtluzr oil, and, swimming
9 grcaL while, at last. the ship's hunt took him up.

He then told us that he went to anm'ia, where Lwnol' llK'. seamen holnngiuq
tn the ship had nrrirerl, having (Inserted the reef. in llwir travels; um] gave. an
account that the fellow who had run away with the ship, sold her at Bengal
to n. set of pirates, which were gone n-cruising in her; and that they had
already lake" :1!) English ship', and two Dulch ships, very richly laden.

This latter part we found to concern us directly ; and though we know in; In
be false, yet, as my purtner said very well: if we had fallen into their hamln,
and they had such a. prepossession against: us hclhrclmnd, it hutl been in vain
for us to have defended ourselves or to hope for any good quail-tors at ihcir
hands; especiallr considering that our necnsers had been our jnclg ., nncl that
we could have expected nothing from than) but what rage would h. '0. dicmml,
and ungm'nrned passion have executed; and, therefom, it was his opinion, m,-
should go directly back to Bengal) from whence we came, will-(mt priming in at
any port whatever; because there we could :: c an account oi" mum-Hrs, and
could prove where we were when the ship put in, whom we honght her of, and
the like: and, which was more than all the rest, if we were put. to the ncccs<itv
of bringing it before the propnr judges, we should he sure to have some justice;
and nm'. he hanged first, and judged aflerwurtls.

[was some time of mypnrtner's upiniun; but alter a little more serious
thinking, I told him,I thought: it was :1 very great hazard for us in attempt
returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the Straits of
Malacca; and that: if the alarm was given, we should he sure to be wayhxid
on every side, as well by the Dutch of Batzwia as the English elsewhere; that.

   

"'3'5'" " '

#915>> five]. new:

1:91:

 

)1 \

 

 

 
 
 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

if we should he taken, :15 it were, running away, we should even condemn
ourselvux, and there would want. no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked
Lhn English sailor's opinion, who snid ho was of my mind, and that we should
tam-thinly be taken

This danger a little startled my partner, and all the ship's company; and

we immediately resolved to go away to the coast of Touquin, and so on to

China; and from thence, pursuing the first design, as to trade, find some wny
or other to digpnsc ol' the ship, and come back in some of the vessels of 11m
connlry, such as we could get. This was approved oi", as the best method for
mu" security; and, accordingly, we steered away north-1101'tl1-eust, keeping
above fifty leagues of? from the usual course ('0 the eastwurd.

This, however, put us 1.0 some inconveniences; for, first, the winds, when
we came 90 1.11111. distance from the shore, sceli 10 hr. more steadily against. 11!,
lulcwing almost trade, 3.3 we call 1'1, from the east and uushnorth--east; so that.
we were a 1011;; while upon our voyage, and we. were but ill provided with
victuals for so long :1 run; and, which was still worse, there was some danger
that (host: EngliSSh and Dutch ships, "hose hunts pursued us, whereof some
were bound Hint. \vny. iliiwhl he got in before us; and if not. some other rhip
bound to China. might haie infounation of us liom them, and pursue us nith
the same vigmu.

I must. confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including the
late escape From the long-boats, to have been in the 11105!- dangcrous coudiliou
that ever I was in through all my past life: for, whatever ill 'circumsmnces I
had. been in, 'l was never pursued for thin? helbrc; nor had I ever done 1111;;-
thing that merited. the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish. I
hnd chiefly been my own enemy; or, as 1 might rightly say, I had been
nobody's enenuy but my own. But nuw.l was emha :st in the worst.
condition imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, 'I was in no
condition to make that innocence uppeur; nnd if I had been taken, it had
been under 11 supposed <<Hill. of tho worst hind--an lvust, :1 (:1 nc esteemed 50
among the people I had in do with. I

This made me vciy anxious to make an escape, though which wiry to do it
I knew-1101.; or what p01 t. or place "t: >ll0l|lll go to. My paltnm seeing me
thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at first, began to eucuurugu
mo; zmd describing to 11:2 the several ports of that 1'. .1st, told me he would
put in on the coast-01' Cochin-China, or the hay of 'l'onquin; intending to go
afterwards to Macao, u town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and
where still a great many European I'nniilics resided, and particularly missionary
priosls usually want zhi1.hc1-,in order to their going forward to China.

Hither we then resolved to go; and accordingly, though :1er n tedious
and irregular course, 11nd very much straitc'ned for provisions, we came within
sight of the coast. very early in the 11101'11ing; and upon reflect-ion upon the
past. circumslnnces we were in, and the dunger, if we had not escaped, we
resolved to put into :1 small river, which, however, had depth enough of water

436

 

 

   

 

---"\\

 

 

 

 

 

 

r.
g
' \
a
  

for us, and to see if we could, either overland, or by the ship's pinnucc, Cume
to know what. ships were in any port tlmrwbants. This happy step was,
indeed, our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any European
ships in the bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning IlK're came into the buy
two Dutch ships; and a third wiLbonl. any colours spvend out, but which we
believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two lengno's' distance, starring
for the coast. of China; and in the afternoon went by two English ships,
steering ihe same course; and thus we thought. we saw uursclvcs beset with
enemies, both one way and the other. The place we were in was wild anal
barbarous, the people thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though,
ii. is true, we lmtl not much to SC'Ik of them, and, cxcqn getting a few
prm'isions, cared not how little we had to Lie with them, yet. it was wit h much
rlifliuulty that we kept ourselves
from being insulted by llleuisevcral
ways.

We were in a small river of this
country, within a few leagues of its
utmost limits northward, and by our
lunat- we coasted north-east to the
point ni' land which opens to the
great- ha)' of 'l'onquin; and it was
in this healing, up along the share
that we discovered as above, that
in a word, we were surrounded with
enemies. The people we were among
were the most barium-cm of all the
inhabitants ol' the coast; having no
correspondence will: any other na-
tion, and dealing only in fish and
ail= nml such grozs commodities;
and it maybe particularly seen that
they are, as I said, the most barbaroui of any of the inhabitants, Immelv:
that aiming other customs they have this one, that if any \'I'n' -l had illi' mif-
l'oi'lunv to be shipwr had upon their coast, tlzry pro Intly make Ihv men in!
prisoner-R that is to say, slaves; and it was not. long hclbrc we lounnl a slum:
0? their hindno . this way, on the occnsiun following:--

I have cl): 'cd above, that- uur ship sprang a. leak at sea, and, that. wu
could not find it out; and however it lmpycned, that, as l haverml, H. ".5
stopped 111)?x'-ccthly, in the happy minute of our being to ln': ~ well- '4' ""5
Dutch and English ships, near the hay of Siam; yet, ns we Jul not. hnd the
ship so perfectly tight. and sound as we desired, we resolved, "'llllc "'0 "'0" '"
this placeJ to lay her on shore, take out what heavy things we had on lhoarrl;
which were not many, and to wash and clean hm: bottom, and, If IWSS'L'IC': '0
find on! where the leukn were.Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns, mu] other
movenble thing, to one side, we tried to luring her dorm, that we might come
at her hotmm; for, on second thoughts, we (lid not. care to lay her dry aground,
neither could we find oul: a proper place for it.

The inhahitzmts, who had "0331' been acquainted with snoh n siglxt,cz-.1;w
wondering down to the shore to luck 116113; and seeing the .hip lie. down on
one side in sneh 11. manner. and lmeling ton-11.1 1'15 the shore, and not '(zcing our
men who new at work on her bottom with stages, 11ml with them boats on
the. off side, they presently concluded 1:11:11; the ship was cast. away, and lny so
very (list on the ground.

- 011 this supposition, they came all about 1:3 in two 01' lle lionis' time,
with ten or twelve large boats, hrwing some 05 them eight, some (on men in :1

 

 

-bonEUR., intending, no doubt, to have come on board and plunder the ship; and

if' they had found us there, in have carried us away For slaves in their king, 01'
whaSSever they call him, for we knew not who was their governor.

When they came up 10 the ship, and began to row round her, they
(liscoveml us all hard at xvmk on the outsida of the'ship's bottom and side,
washing, and graving, and stopping, as even- seafaring man knows how.

They sinotl for a. "hile gazing at us, and we, who won: a little smpriaed,
cn'nld not. imagine what their design wnsybnt. being willing, to he sure, we
took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and others ((1 hand
down arms and ammunition to those that were at work, to defend themselves
with, if thin-e should he occasion; and it. was no more thnn need, for in less
than :1. quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it. seems, that- 1l1e ship
was renlly x1 wreck, that: we were all at work endeavouring to smrc her, or to
save our lines lvy the help of our boats; and when we handed our arms in"
the beam, they concluded lay tlmt motion that we were endear-011mm to snve
some of unr goods. Upon this, they look it for granled they all belonged to

them, and may they came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line bl"

battle.

Our man seeing so runny cf them, began to he l'rightod, for we in but in
an ill posture to fight, and eriorl out to us '10 know what they xlmnld do? I
immediately caller! to the men who worked upon the stages, to slip them down,
and get up the side into the ship, and bncle those in the hunt to row round and
mum on heard ; and those fc ., of us who were on board. worked with all rhe
strength 11ml hands W1: lmrl to bring the'ehip to rights; but, however, neither
the men upon the stage, nor those in the hunts, could do as they were ordered,
befaro the Cochin-Chinese were upon them, and, will: two of their boats,
boarded our long-1mm, and began to lay hold of the men as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English snmmm, a. smut,al:rong
fellow, who having :1. musket in his hand, never oil'ered to fire it, 1111!; laid it-
<low11 in the heat, like :1 l'nol, :13 I thought. But he understood his business
better lhnn I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged him
by main force out of their own boat'inlo 0111's, where, taking him by the two

'35-. .- .mm'grfleizwmiszsmyfma ar-
_ _, ..

ADVENTURES 01' ROBINSON GREECE.

ears, he heat. his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the follow (lied.
instantlym his hands; and in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood next,
took up the musket, and, with the butt-mid of it, so laid about him, that he
hunched down five of them who attemplod to enter the boat. But this was
little towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, hecnuxe ignorant of
their danger, hogan to throw themselves into the long-boat, where we had but
five men to defend it. But one nmidcnt gave our men a complete victorv,
which deserved our laughter rnther than any thing else, and that was this:----v

()ur carpenter, being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well as
to pay the seams where he caulhed her ('0 stop the leaks, had got two kettles
just let down into the boon-one filled. wit-h boiling pitch, and the other with
yogi") fellow, and oil, and such stnil' as the shipwright; used for that work;
and the man that. tended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand,
wish which he supplied the men that were at work Willi that hot stufi': two of
the enemy's men entered the boat: just where the follow stood, being in the fore.-
simois; he immediately saluted them with a ludleful of the stutl', hailing hot,
which no burnt and scolded them, being half naked, that they roared out. like
two balls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter
saw it, and cried out, " Well done, Jack, give them some more of it," when,
stopping forward himself, he takes one of their mops, mid dipping it in the
pitch-pot, he nnd his man threw it among them so plentifully, that, in short, of
all the men in three boats, there was not one that was not scolded and harm.
with it in :1. most frightful, pitiful manner, und made such a howlin5r and crying,
that I never heard a worse noise, and, indeed, nothing like it ; for it was worth
observing, that though pain naturally makes all people cry out, yet. every
nation have a particular way of exclamation, and make noises as diil'oront. from
one another as their speech. lcunnot give the noise these creatures made a.
better name than howling, nor a, name more proper to the tone of it; forI
nercr heard any thing more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said,
I heard howl in the forest. on the frontiers of Lnugucdoc.

lwns'never pleased with a. victory better in my life; not only as it was a
perfect surprise to me, and that. our danger was imminent before; bur. as we
got this victory without any bloodshed, except, of that man the follow killed
with his naked hands; and which I was very much concerned at; for I was
sit-l; of killing such poor ravage wretches, even though it was in my own
defence, knowing they came on errands which they thought. just, and knew no
better; and that though it may be njnsL thing, because necessary, for there is
no necessary wickedness in nature, yet I thought it was a. sad life, when we
must he always obliged to he killing our follow-orcntures to preserve ourselves
wand, indeed, I think so still--and I would, even now, suffer a great deal,
rather than I would take away Lhe life even of the worst person injuring me.
I helium also, all considering people, who know the vnluo of lil'e, would he of
my Opinion, it' they entered seriously into the consideration of it.

But to return to my story. All the whilo this was doing, my partner and l,

.439'\- fi'mfifivm" "' -

       

   

ADVEXTURES 01" ROBINSON CBUSOE.

who managed the rest of the men on hoard, had, with great dexterity, brought
til the ship almost to rights; and, having gotten the guns into their places agnin,
- tho gunner called to me to bid our boat got out of the way, for he would let
fly among them. I rolled bncl; again to him, and bade him not ofi'erto fire,
I for the carpenter would do the worl: without him; but bndo him heat nnothcr
1' pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of. But the enemy
was so terrified with what they met with in their first attack, that they would
not come on ngnin: and some of them that were farthest of, seeing the ship
g' , swim, as it were, upright, hogan, as we supposed; to see their mistake, and
,9 gum over the enterprise, finding it wns not as they expected. Thus we got
{i clenr of this morry light; and having gotten some rice, and some roots and
_ , bread, with shout sixteen good big hogs on hoard two days before, we resolved _
V to stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came ot'it; for we mndo no
danht but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues enoughhpmhnps
more than our pitch-kettle would dispose ol' For us. .

We, therefore, got all our things on'honrd the same evening, and the next
morning were randy to soil. In the meantime, lying nt'nn anchor some dis-
lance from the shore, we n to .not much concerned, being new in a lighting
, posluro as well as in a sailing posture, if any enemy had presented. The next
' day, having finished our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly

healed of all her looks, wo sot sail. We would have gone into the bay nl'

'l'onquin, for we wanted to inform oursoiros of what was to he known concern--
A lug the Dutch ships that had been there; but. we dlll'$l not slnnd in there,
A lmtanso we had seen several ships go in,_ us we supposed, but a little lit-fore; so
. we kept on north-east. towards the ' h: of Formosa, us much oft-aid of being
L soon by a Dutch or English merc- int shin, as it Dutch or English merchant
ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine 1nnn-'of-n'ar.

When we were thus gone to son, we kept on nortlt~oost., or, it" we would go
to (he Mnuillns or the Philippine Islands, and this we did, that "'L' might not
full into the tray of any of the European ships; and than no steered north
again, till we- cmno to the latitude of twenty--two (legions twenty minutes, by
which menus we made the islnnd of Formoso directly, where we came to an
anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions, which the people there,- who
are very courteous and civil in their manners, suppliod us with willingly, and
dealt very fairly and pnnctually with us in all their engagements and bargains,
which is what we did not find among other people, nnd may be owing to the
rmnnins of Christianity, which was once planted horn by a Dutch mission of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what. I have often observed, namely, that

a,

   

the Christian religion always civilises the people, and reforms their manners, 1 t
. where it is roceived, whether it works saving effects upon them or not. . l
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of Chitin nt an equal '

distance, till we knew we were beyond all. the ports of China where our Euro-

pean ships usually come; but being resolved, it possible, not to fall into any of

their hands, especially in this country, where, as our circumstances were, we'. "Anvnxrmms ow nomusozc (muse-mm

 

 

   

. coutld Ilotlfa-xl ofth'cing entirely ruined: nay, so great was my fear in particular,
- . . > z . ' ' ' '-
n? as o my mug; mum b3 (huh, m>>: I helluva firmly I would much rather have
chosen to fall mm the hands of the Spanish Inquisition.

 

1TH: Gm: Wm of mm.)

atimae of thirty degrees, we resolved to put into [3
the shore, a boat

 

Being now come to the l
the first trading port we should come at: and, standing in fur

4Hcame ofi' two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who,
knowing us: to be an European ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed,
we were very glad of, and tool: him on board; upon which, without asking
un whether we would go, he dismissed the hour he came in, and sent it back.

I thought it was now so much in our choice. to make the old man carry us
whither we would, that I began to tell: to him about carrying us to the Gulf
of Nanquin, which is the most norlfhern port oi" the coast of China. The old
mun suid he ken; the Gruli' of Nanqniu veer}.r well 5 but, smiling, asked us whac
we would do there?

I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase China wares, calicoas, raw
silks, ten, wrought silks, liter, and so would return by the same course we. came.
He told us our best part had been to have put in at Macao, where we could not.
fail of a market for our opium to our satisfaction, and might, for our money,
have purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at Nanqnin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was very
opinionated, or cmmeited, I told him we were gentlemen as well as merchants,
and that we had a. mind to go and see the great city of Pckin, and the famous
court of the monarch of China. " Why than," says the old man, " you should
go to Ningpo, where, by the river that ruins into the sea there, you may go up
within five leagues ol' the great canal." This canal is a navigable made stream,
which goes through the heart of all that vast empire of China, crosses all the
rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and goes
up to (he'cityof Pekin, being in length nearly two hundred and seventy leagues.

" "Well," said I, " Scignior Portuguese, but that is not our business now;
the great- question is, if you can carry us up to the city of Nmiquiu, from
whence we can travel to Pekiu ailerwurds ? "---" Yes," he said, "he could do so
very well; and there was n great Dutch ship gone up tho: wnyjust before."
This gave me a little shock; a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we had
much rather have met the devil, at least, il' ho had not come in too frightful a
figure. _\-\"e depended upon it that a Dutch ship would be our destruction, for
we were in no condition (0 light. tho-m; ull the ships they trade with in those
parts being of grant burden and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern, When be

mixed :1. Dutch ship; and said to me, " Sir, you need be under no apprehension
of the Dutch; I' suppose they are not. now at war with your nation." " No,"
said I, " that's true; but I know noi- whut liberties men may taha when they
are out of the reach of the laws of their cvnuiiry."--"Why," said he, "you
are no pirate; what need you fear? They will not; meddle with peaceable
merchants, sure."

If I had any blood in my hotly tha't did not ily up in my face at that word,
it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appoinlnd by nature to circulate it
--l'or it put me into the greatest disorder and coni'uaion imaginable: nor was ll:
possible for me to conceal it so but that the old man easily perceived it.

" Sir," said he, "I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts at my

442
talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think tit, and depend upon it, I'll
do you all the service I ea.iL"--"W'hy, scignior," said I, "it is true I am a
little unsettled in my resolution at this time whither to go in particular: and I
am something more so for what you said about pirates. I hope there are no
pirates in these seas; we are but in ill condition to meet with them; for you
see we have but. a small force, and but very weakly manned."

" 0 air," said he, " do not be concerned; I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except one, which was seen, as
I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a. month since; but you may be assured she
is gone to the southward; nor was she a ship of any great force, or fit for the
work; she was not built for a printout, but was run away with by a. reprobatc
crew that were on hoard, after the captain and some of his men had been
murdered by the Melee-cans, at. or near the island of Sumatra."

" What! " said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did they murder
the captain F"--" No," said he, " I do not. understand that: they murdered him;
but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is generally believed they
betrayed him into the hands of tho Melamans, who did murder him; and,
perhaps, they procured them to do it."--"Why then," said I, " they deserved
death as much as if they had done it themselves."--" y,"sa,id the old man,
"they do deserve it, and they will certainly have it if they light upon any
English or Dutch ship; for they have all agreed together, thatif they meet
that rogue, they will give him no quarter."

" But," said I to him, " you say the pirate is gone out of these seas; how
can they meet with him t'lien'r'"----" Why, that is true," said he. " they do say
so 3 but he was, as I tell you, in the hay of Siam, in the river Cnmbodia, and
mm discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who
were left on shore when they rrm away with lit-1;; and some English and Dutch
traders being in the river, they were within :1. little or taking him. Nay," amid
he, "it' the foremost bouts had been well seconded by the rest, they had
certainly taken him; but he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked
about, and fired at these two, and disabled them before the others came up;
and then, standing olt' to sea, the otlmrs were not able to follow him, and so he
got away. But they have all so exact a description of the ship, that they Will
he sure to know him; and, wherever they find him, they have vowed to give
no quarter to either the captain or seamen, but. to hang them all up at the
yard-arm."

" What!" said I, "will they execute them, right or wrong; hang thcm
first, and judge them afterwards ? "--4' 0 sirl" said the old pilot, "there is no
need to make a formal business of it. with such rogues as those; let them tie
them hack to hack, and set them a-diving; it is no more than they rightly
deserve."

I knew 1 had my old men fast'uhoard, and that he <<Ould (if 3119' 110 Ila-I'm;
so I turned ohm-t: upon him. " \Vell, soignior," said I, "and this Is the very
renson why I would have you carry us to Nanquin, and not to put lmclt to

 

 

' 4-13

,- M "ii ammo--N"

 

 

a}
'5)
\
Macao, or to any other part of the cormtry where tho English or Dutch 512i ps
came; for, be it. known to you, soignior, those captains of the Engiish and '
Dutch ships are a parcel of rush, proud, insolent fellows, that neither kuuw
what belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the lanes of God and
nature direct; but, being proud of their Milan, and not understanding their
power, they would act the murdererd to punish robbers--would take upon
thmu to insult men falsely hemmed, and determine them guilty without. due
enquiry; and, perhaps, I "my live to cull some of them to an account or it,
where they may be taught how justice is to be executed; and that no man
ought to be trained as a. criminal, till some evidence may be hull of Lhe crime,
and that ho is the man."

With this I told him, that this was the very ship they hnd ultuclmd; and
gave him it full account of tho skirmish we had with their boats; and bow
foolishly and coward-like they had behaved. I told him all the story 01' our
buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us. I told him the reasons I
had to believe that this story of killing the master by the Malziecans was not
true, as also the running away with the ship; but that it was all n liction of
their own, to euggost that the men were turned pirates: and the}.r ought to
have been sure it was so, before they had ventured to attack us by surprise,
and oblige u: to resist them ; adding, that they would have the blood of those
mun who were killed there, in ourjust defence, to answer for.

The old mm was amazed at this relation, and told us, we were very much
in the right to go away to (he uor'xh ; and that. if he might advise. us, it should
be to sell the ship in China, which we might very well do, and buy or build
another in the country. "And," said he, " though you will not. get so good
a ship, yet you run)' get. one able enough to curry you and all your goods back
again to Bengal or any where else." '

I told him I would take his advice when I come to any port where I could
find a ship for my turn, or get any customer to buy this. He replied, I should
meet. with customers enough for the ship at Nunapfin, mid that u Chinese junk
would eerveme very well, to go back again; and that he would procure me
people both to buy om; and sell the other.

"' "roll, but seignior," says I, "as you say they know the. ship so well7 I
may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some honest,
innocent. men into a terrible broil, and, perhaps, he murdered in cold blood ;
l'or wherever they find the ship, they will prove tho guilt upon the men, by
proving this was the ship; and so innocent man may probably be overpowered
and mnrdoro "--1' Why," said the old 1mm, "I'll find out away to prevent
that also; for :ls ] lmow all those commanders you speak of very well, and
Shall see them all as they puss by, i will be sure to set them to rights in the
thing, and let them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that
lhough the [maple who were on board at first might run away with the ship,
3'" it "'21:; not true that they lmcl turned pirates; and that in particular those
were not. the men that first went oli' with the ship, but innocently bought herXxx: -

 

 

ADVEXI'CRES OI" ROJHXSON CRUISOE.

 

 

for their trade; and I am persuaded they so {311' imlieve me, as. at lcasl.
to net more mutiously far the time to come." ' Well," said I, "' and "ill mu
deliver one message to them from me? "----"Yes, I will," says he, "' if you :vill
give it under your hand in writing, that I may be able to prove it mine. from
you, and notnnt of my own head." I answered, that I would reach] Give it
him under my hand. So I took a pen and ink, and paper, and "-mkiaillm-ge
the story of assaulting me with the, lung-boats, &c., the pretendhd reason of it,
and the unjust, cruel design of it; and concluded to the commanders, flint the
had done what they not only should have been ashamed ol', but alsor that 1'.'
ever they came. to England, and I lived to sue them there, ElIQV should-nil pay
dearly for it, if the laws of my country were not grown out-0t use before .1
arrived there.

My old pilot read this over and over again. and asked me several times ii'I
would stand t9 it. I answered, I would stand to it as long as 1 had any thing

 

 

 
 

 

left in the world; being sensible that I should, one time 01' other, find an
opportunity to put it-hoine to them. But we had no occasion ever to let the
pilot carry this letter, for he never went back again While those things
were passing between us, by Wuy ol' discourse, we went forward directly for
Nanquin, and, in about thirteen tlays' sail, came to anchor at the mink-west
point of the great Gulf (nl' Nnnquin, where, by the way, I came by accident to
understand, that the two Dutch ships were gone that length below: me, and
that I should certainly fall into their hands. 1 consulted my partner again in
this exigency, and he was as. much at a. loss as I was, and would, very gladly
have been safe on shore almost any where. However, I was not in such
perplexity neither, but I asked the old piint if there was no crack or harbour,
which I might put into, nnd pursue my business with the Chinese privately,
and he in no danger of the enemy. He told me, if I would sail in the south>>
 

Wind about two-nud- form lengncs,tlic1e was n little port called Quinchnng,
~wheie the l'aihms oi' the mission usually lmiclczl l'rmn Macao, en lhcir progncss
to touch the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships
ever put in: and if I thought proper to put in there, I might- consider what
further course to take when I was on shore. He confessed, he said, it was not
a place for merchants, except that at. some certain times they had :1 kind of fair
there, when the merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese
merchandise.

W'e all agreed to go back 1:0 this place: the nnme of the port, as he called
it. I may, perhaps, spell wrong, for I do not particularly remember it, having
lost this, together with the names of many other places set down in a little
pocket-book, which was spoiled by the water, on an accident which I shall
relate in its order: but this I remember, that the Chinese or Japanese mer--
chants we correspond with call it; 11v 3 dill'cmnt name from that which our
Portuguese pilot gase it, and monounced it as above, Quincnznm.

As no were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, no weighed the
next day, having only gone twice on shore, where we were to get fresh water ;
on both which occasions the people of the country were very civil to us, and
brought us alnnulnnce of things to sell to 113--1 mean of provisions, plant-".-
roots, tea, rice, and some fowls---l>nt nothing without money.

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five days; hut
it was very much to 0111' satisfaction, and I wns joyful, and I may say thankful,
when I set my 1110:. snl'o on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it was
possible to dispose of ourselves and effects any other way, though not every
wag/1v.) our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that unhappy
vesrL-l again: and, indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the ciieumstnnccs
of life that over 1 had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so oomph.- e \'
misemblc as that of being in constant fear. \V ell does the Scripture saw, "The
fear of 1mm brings a snare;" it is :1 life oi: death, and the mind is so cniimly
oppressed by it, that it is capable of no relief; the animal spirits sink, and all
the vigour ol'nature, which izsnnll},r supports men under other nfi'liciions, and is
present to them in the greatest exigencies, fails them here.

Nor did it fail its usual operations upon the fanny, h); heightening every
danger; representing the English and Dutch captains to be men incapable
oi' hearing reason, or distinguishing between honest men 'and rogues--m-
lmtween a. story calculated For our own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose
to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole voynge, progress, and
design--for we might many ways have convinced any reasonable creature Limb
we were not pirates; the goods we had on board, the course we steered, our
frankly showing ourselves, and entering into such and such ports--even our
very manner, the force we had, the munlmr of men, the few arms, little ammu--
nition, and short provisions--all those would have served to convince 51113? man
that we were no pirates. The opium, and other goods we had on board, would
make it appear the ship lmd been at Bengal; the Dutchmen, who it was sniri,
 

had the names of all the men that were in tho ship, might easily see that we
were a mixture of English, Portuguese, Indiana, and but two Dutchmen on
hoard. These, and many other particular circumstances, might have made it
evident to tho. understanding of any commander, whose hands we might fall
i No, that we were no pirates.

Bin. fear, that blind useless passion, worked another way, and threw us inlo
the vapours; it bewildered our understanding, and set. the hnagimnion at Work,
In orm a thousand terrible thin -, that, perhaps, might never happen. We
fir - supposed, as indeed ovary ho y had related to us, that the seamen on
Lozu'dt' ,! English and Dumh ships, hm. especially the Dutch, were so enraged
at the mum) ol' a pirate, and especially at our heating oil' their boats and
escaping. that they would not give thenmelres leave to inquire whether we
were pll'fllCS or no, bu:r would execute us off-hand, as we call ii, without. giving
us any room For a. defence. W0 reflected, 'lhai. there really so nun-h
apparent evidence before them, that the, would scarce inqn; c after any more:
as, first, that the ship was certainly the same, and that some of the seamen
among them know her, and had heon on board her; and, secondly, that when
we had intelligence or the river Cambodia, that they were coming down to
examine us, we fought. their boats, and fled: so Lhni. we made no donht they
were as fully satisfied of our heing pirates, as we were satisfied ol' the contrary;
and I often said, I knew nothut -l should have been apt to have taken the like
circumstances for evidence, if the tables were turned, and my case was theirs;
and have-made no scruplo ol' cutting all the crew in pieces, wi:hout believing,
or perhaps considering, what they might have to (diet in their defence.

But. let. that be how it will, those Were our apprehensions; and both my
partner, and I too, scarce slept in night without dreaming ul' halters and yard-
:u'ms; that is to say, gibhels--of fighting, and being taken--of killing, and
being; kill-2d.

These thin'rs tormented me, and my partner Loo, night and day 3 and I can-
not. refrain taking notice what refleciinns I now had upon the past variety of
my particular circumstances; how hard I thought: it was, that I, who had
spent forty years in a life of continued (lillicnlties, and was at last name, as it
were, at. the port or haven which all men drive at, namely, to have rest and
plenty, should. he a volunteer in new sorrows, by my (in-n unhappy choice;
and that I, who lmrl escaped so many dangers in my youth, should now coma
to he hanged in my 01:1 age, and in so remote a place, for a crime I was no! in
the least inclined to, much less guilty of; and in a place and circumstance
where innocence was not like 1.0 be any proeemion at all to me.

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in; and I would be
considering that this seemed to me to he n disposition of immediate Providence,
and I ought to look upon it, and suhmil. to it. as such--that although I was
innocent as to men, I was far from being innocent as to my Maker; and I
ought to look in, and examine what other crimes in my lil'o were mosl. Obvious
to .me, and for which Providence might justly inflict this pnnislnnent as a
retribution; and that. I ought to submit to this just as I would to a shipwreck,
if it lwl pleased God to have brought. such a- disaster upon me. _

But by how much the grcnter weight the anxieties and perplexities of thou-
tliings were to our thoughts while we were at sea, by so much the greater was
our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore; and my partner told me he
dreamed that he had a very heavy load upon his back, which he was to carry
up a. hill, and found that he was not able to stand long under it ; but the For-
higncse pilot came and took it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the groom-:1
before him showing all smooth and plain ; and truly it was so; we were all
like men who had a loud token ofi' their books.

For my part, I had a weight taken off from my heart that I was not alile
any longer to bear; and, as I said above, we resolved to go no more to son in
that ship. When we come on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friom'l,
got us a lodging and a warehouse for our goodx, which, by the way, was much
the same: it was a little house or hut, with a large house joining to it, all built
with canes, and palisatloerl round with large cones, in keep out pilfering thieves,
of which, it seems, there were not in. few in the counlry. However, the magis-
trates allowed us a little guard, and we had a soldier with a kind of halberl, or
halprike, who stood sentinel at our door, in whom we allowed a. pint ni' rice,
11ml a little piece of money, about the value of ihreepcnco, per day: so that our
goods were kept very safe. '

The fair or mart usually kept, in this place had been over for sometime,
however, we found that there Were three or four junhs in the river, and two
Japxmners--I moon ships from Japan, with goods which they had bought in
China, and were not. gone away, having Japanese merchants on shore.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was to bring us
acquainted with three missionary ROI-fish priests, who were. in the town, and
who had been there some time, converting tho people to Christianity. One of
these was 51 Frontal-Juan, whom they called Father Simon ; ho was a jolly, well-
comlilionorl man, very free in his conversation, not seeming so serious and
grave as the other two did, one of whom was a Portuguese, and llio other a
Genoase; but Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner, and very
agreeable company; the other two worn more reserved, seemed rigid and
austere, and applied seriously in the work they came about. This French
priest, Father Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the
mission, to go up to Pokin, the royal seal, of the Chinese emperor; and wuiied
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him f'rorxi Macao, to go
along with him; and, we scnroo ever met together but he was inviting me to go
that journey with him, telling me how ho would show me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire, and amongst the rest, the greutest city in the
world--"n. city," said he, "that your London and our I'aris put. together,
cannot bo equal to." This was the cit},r ol' Pekin, which, I confess, is very
great, and infinitely hill of people; but as I looked on those things with
difl'eront eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in fewwords, when I com-2, m the ymu'sc <<F my trawhgm spmk more particularly of
mom. -

 

[Th5 lJuLi

Dining with the missionary one dny, and being very merry together, I
shuwed some H1110 inclinalion to go with him; and he pressed me and my
partner very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to cement. I likedV ' 39.0%,. ..W "mw'fiWesflf/a

i ADVEX'I'UREE 01* 31031350}! CRUSOE.

 

\' this part. of his discourse very well, but we had something else before us at. that
time; far we hacl nll this while our ship and our merchandise to dispose of;
14 _ and we began in he very doubtful what we sheulti do, for we were now in n
1'3 place of very little business. At length cm: prospects began to clear up a
l l: 11:. The first thing that offered was, that our old Portuguese pilot brought
'apan merchant to as, who began to inquire what goods we had ; and, in ilie
lust place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very,- good price For it, pay-
ing us in gold by weight, Hunk? in small pieces of their own coin, and some in
small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces cnch. Whila we were dealing
with him for our opium, it. came into my head that he might, perhaps, (lcnl
with us for the ship too; and I ordm'cd tho interpreter to propose it to him.
. IIe shrunk up his shoulders at. it when it was first proposed to him; but in a,
i for: days nf'ter, he came in me, wish one ol' the niiSsionary priests for hia inter-
preter, anti told me he hall a. proposal to make to me, and that was this: he
. , 12a: lmughl. a. great quantity of goods of us when he had no thoughts (or pro--
'. pnsais made to him) of liuyini: the ship, and that, therefore, hohacl not money
enough to pay for the ship; but if I would let rho same. man that were in the
ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to .l'apan, and would send 1.3mm
., from thence to the Philippine islands with analhe: la. ' g, which he. would
' [my the freight ul' before they; wont to Japan; and. that, at their return, he
I would buy the sup. I Began to lisimr to this prupnsnl, and so eager did my
head still run upon rambling, thnt I could uni but begin to entertain a. notion
myself of going with him, and so to sail l'rmn the Philippine Islands away to
Lim South Seas; and accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would
not hire us to the hilippine Islands, and discharge us there. He said, nu, he
' muld not (in that, For the" he cvuld not have the return of his cargo; but he
would discharge us in Japan, he said, at the ship's return. \Vell, still .T \\-'&s
i for taking him at that prflpnsul, and going myzell'; but my partner, wiser than
: myself, persuaded me from it, representing the dangers, as well of the sea; as
l of the Japanese, who me a false, cruel, treacherous people; and than of the
' Spaniards at (he Philippines, more false, more cruel, more treacherous than
they.

Bni, to bring this long mm ofnnr nfihirs to a conclusion, the first thing we
lmd to do was to consnll with the captain of the ship, and with the men, and
know if they were willing to go to Japan; and, while I wns doing leis, the
young man whom, as I said, my nephew had left with me as my Companion for
my travels, came to me and told me that he thought the voyage promised very
fair, and ilml. there mm a great prospect ol' advantage, and he wenh'l be very
glad il' I undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he
would go as a merchant, or how I pleased to order him; and if ever he came ii)
10 England, and I was there, and alive, he would render me n faithful account 1
ul' his success, and it should he as much mine as I pleased. q

l was really loath to part with him; but considering the prospect. of udvau- 4,3,4

i

 

     

 

 

tags, which was really considerable, and that. he was a. young fellow, as likely
4.30'> ._:,_

WBZK'ZVAWLA; .

  

ADVENTURES 01" R0111 '-

to do well in it us any I knew, I inclined to let. him go; but first: I told him, I
would consult my partner, aml give him an answer the next day. My partner
and I discoursecl about it, mid n y partner made at most gang-rang oli'er: ho. mhl
me, You know it has been an unlucky lip, and we hal'n resolved not. h) :40 to
sea in it :iguin ; if your steward (so he called in}! mun) will venture the. re
I'll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him make the 1",," of it, "1
if we live to meet in England, and he meets with . in thread he. shall
account for one half of the profits oi" the ship's freight. in us, the other shall be
his own." _

ll' my partner, who was no way concernml with my young nuui, made him
such an offer, I could do no less than oll'nr lzlm the same; 1 all the ship}
company 5 Eng willing to go wiih him, we made over half the ship to him in
, :mrl lnnk a writing irom him, ohliging him to account for the other;
aylie went to Japan. The anan merchant. proved a very punctual
honest mm to him, protected him at Japan, and gel: him :3 limiter. m came on
shore, which the Europemis in general have iwt-lulely obiuinml, paid him his
freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and
China wares, and it supercnrgo of their mm, who, trliltlclzing with
Spaniards, brought back European goods again, and n grout quant' y of c';
and other spice; and there he was not only paid his Freight; very well, and M1
a very good price, but. being not. willing to sell the ship than, the m m'
furnished him with goods on his own account; that for some money nurl some
spices of his own, which he brought with him, he went back to the Man"? ' m
the Spaniards, where sold be his cargo very well. Here, having gutten a
ncqunintanoe at Manilln, he got, his .ship made :1, free ship; and the governor
of Manila hired him in) go in Acapulco in America, on the coast of Au
and gave him a. licence to land there, and travel to Mexico; and to pass in any
Spanish ship to Europe, with. all his men

He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily. and there he snld his ship;
and having there nlso obtained allowance to travel lay lmnl to l'urln ll'llo, he
found means, some how or other, to go to Jamaica with all his m ' -
and about eight years after came to England, exceedingly rich, of "'llll" I
shall take notice in its place: in the meantime, I return In our pni .ilztr
all'airs.

Being new to part with the ship and ship's company, it came hel'ore us, of
Course, to consider what recompense we shouh'l give to the two men taint y 2
us such time" notice of the design Against us in the river of C' mlmclia. ' he
truth was, they had done us a considerable service, and dose: ed well at our
hands--though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too: for, ma they
believed the stow (if our hing pirates, and that: we haul I with
the shin, they (mile down to us, not only to hctr , the (lea
nguinstlns, hut. to go to sea with us as piml llllfl one of them confessed
afterwards, that nothing else hut. the hopes of 340' :i-rngumg brought lulu to
do it, However, the. service they (lid us' was not the hiss; "Nd; "ml'Ch'l'c; "5
.15:

   

 

11:0,

 

     

 

  

   

 

  

 

 

 

    

 

 

)V A-. , --, r _
9 H? 2-5";

 

nur'l-JNTURES or: nomxsox CILUSOE.

I had promised to he grateful to them, I first. ordered the money to he yaid to
them, which they said was clue to them an hoard their respective sliips----t.lmt is
to say, to the Englishman nineteen months' pay, and lo the Dutchman seven ;
and, over and shove that, I gave mull of them a small sum of money in gold,
which cont/smell them very well: n I made the Englishman gnnncr of the
Ship, the gunner being now mzule second mate and pursm'; the Dutchman I
made homswnin: so they were both Vi, v well pleased, and proved very
scrriceahlc, being both able seamen, and r ry stout l'ellows.

We were now on shore in China, If I thought. myself banished, and remote
from my own country, at. Bengal, where I had many ways to get horns 1171' my
money, what could I think of myself now, when I was gotten shout. at tlwusmid
leagues farther of? from home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of prospect
of return!

All we had for it was this: that in about four months' time them was to he
another fair at that place where we were, and then we might be able to
purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the country, 8nd withsl might
l'vnssilily find some Chinawe junks or vessels from Nmtquin, that would hr. to he
sold, and would carry us and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked V '3:
well, and resolved to wait; hesidcs, as our particular persons were no
obnoxions, so if any English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we might
have an opportunity to load our goods, and got passage to some other place in
lndin nearer home.

Upun (hast: hopes we resolved to cuzitinue here; but, wdivcrt oureclms,
we took two or three journeys into the country. First, we want ten days'
journey to see the city 01' Nunqui v well worth seeing, indeed '. they _'c'
it has a million of pconlc in it, whit-Inhuavcvcr, I do not believe. It is rugnlnrly
built, the shunt; are exactly straight, and cross onc another in direct: lines,
which gives the figure of it great advmiiagc.

But when I came to compare the niiscrshlc people of these countries with
ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their government, thair religion,
their wealth, and t'unir glory (as some call it), I must. confess, I do not so much
as; think it worth naming, or worth my while to write of, or any that shall come
after me to read.

It is very observable, that we wonder at. the grandeur, thn riches, the pomp,
the ceremonies, the gm'ermncnt, tho unumflxcturcs, the commerce, and the
conduct of these people--no: that they are to he wondered nt, or, indeed, in
the least to be regarded 3 but because, having first a notion ol' the hurlmrity of
those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance that prevail there, we (lo not
expect to find any such things so far ofi'. _

Otherwise, what are their buil" to tho. palaces and royal buildings of
Enrique? "'11." their trade, to the anncrsal cunnnercc of England, Holland,
Frame, and Spain ? What their cities to ours, for wealth, strength, gala-y 0f
apparel, rich furniture, and an illilllllfl vzu'ichy? What are tlmir ports, supplied
with in few junlts and harks, to our nawgntion, pnr merchants' fleets, our large

 

 

 

   

v. nil
 

and puwerl'nl 11mins? Our city of London has more trade l-lmn all their
mi ht}; empire. 0n: English. or Dutch, or French mam-M-wm', ul' eighty
gin-.5, would fight Will) and destroy all the shipping or China. But the
greatness of their wealth, their trade, the power ol' their urernmeut, and.
strmwih of their armies, are surprising m us, because,
.c {wing them as a barbarous nation of {raga little hm
we did not mpg. ' inch things among them; and '

\\ il'n which all their greatness and pow
in itself nothing at all: for, as l have said of leexr ships, so it may 1)
their :u'mlux :mCl h'O
bring two millions at men intu the field together, would be able In (7.0 nullxlng
but, ruin the country and starve themselves. If they wvro to besiege a

   

l have said,
llnm .

       
 
  
   

 

 

 

 

wrong town in Flanders, or to l'l -'
cuirassicn ur of Fr nclr cavalry; would. 0>> I'Llll'DW ull I'lm imrsc of China; a
in lion of t. .r foo; could nnl. sinnd belln'c one cmlmtnlud burly c-i' our inlay-dry;
posmcl so as not. [,0 lift surrounded, though they were no!- ln be one to twenty-Viz!
number--mar, I do not bur 5!, 1'1" I my, tlxul. mil-{V thousand (iormun or lun-vheu
(2)013, and tell {lxousand French ho u, wnuld fairly beat all (he linrccs of'Gh
And so of our fortified towns; and of the art of our engineers, in assaulting and
defending towns: there i: not a fortified Lawn in China coulal lrold out one
month ng st the but _~_A and attacks 01' an European army; and, n!- tlw sen":
time, all we armies of (3')th could numr taliu such a. town as Dunkll'l":
provided i1, \rns not it .'vml-<<no, not in ten years' sicgu. ' Tl-my lulvc firc-arlxnc.
it is truo, but they are awluvard, clumsy, and lmcertulu- "l gnu); off--turf
have powder, but it is of no strength--tho); have m-ithor dumplme m the field.
.153

 

     

 

 

In.their arms, skill to attack, nor temper to retronL And therefore, I

must con! , it seemed strange to me when I come henna, and heard our peuyle
my such fine things of the power, richos, glory, magnificence, nnd trade of the
Chinese, because I saw and knew that they were a contemptihlc herd or crowd
of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to :1. government qualified only to rule such
a people; and, in a. word--for I run now launched quite beside my design--J
say, in a. word, were not its distance inconceivably great from Mnseovy, and
were not the Mnscovito empire almost as rude, impotent, and ill--governed il.
crowd of slaves as tlie-y,'the Czar of Muscory might, with much ease, drive
them all 0112- of their country, and conquer them in our camp 411; Md had the
Czar, who, I since hmr, is :1 growing prince, and begins ro appear lbrmidublaz
in the world, fallen this way, instead of attacking 1hr: warlike Swedes (in which
attempt none of the powers ol' Europe would have envied or interruptcd him),
he might, by this time, have been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten
by the king of Sweden at Nnrm, when the latter was no: one to six in number.
As their ere-ngtli and their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, and
husbandry, are imperfect and impotent, compnrod to the name things in
Europe. Also, in their knowledge, their leul'niug,tl1eir skill in the sciences:
they lmrc globes and spheres, and a. swatch of the knowledge oi' the: mathe-
matic ; but when you come to inquire into their knowledge, how short-sighted
are the wisest. of their students! They know nothing of the motion of the
heavenly bodies; and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that when the sun is
eclipsed they think it is a great dragon has assaulted. and run sax-3:.- with it, and
they all u cluttering with all the drums nnd kettles in the country, to fright
the monster away, just as we do to hivo a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of this kind which l have made in all the
necom , T, have given of my travels, so I. shall make no more descriptions
of countries and people: it is none of my business, or any part of my
design; but 2 '1g an nccount of in}; own adventures, through :1 mi: oi'_
infinite wanderings, and a. long variety of changes, which, perhaps, l'ew liuve
heard the like ol', I shall say nothing of the nriight}.r places, desert countries,
and numerous people, I have yet to pass through, moi-o than relates to in y own
, and ii-hich my concern among them .will make 'neressary. l was nevi,
as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about the latitude of thirty
degrees north of the line, for \ve were returning from Nnnquin; I had, indeed,
a mind to see the city of .Pt'lilll, which I had heard so mud!) ol', and Father
Simon importnned mo. daily to do it. At length his time of going 8' being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived from
Macao, it was nocesenry ilmtwe should resolve either to go, or not (0 go; so
I 1'0 erred him to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at length
resolved it in the Mill-motive, and we prepared for our journey. W 0 set out
with very good advantage, ns to finding the way ; for we got leave to travel in
tho. vetinuo of one of their Inaudarins, a kind of Viceroy, or principal our #-
trata, in the province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,

 

 

 

    

 

 

ill-l

u .. 2 . , "Wu-v.1: .,

"WW--o
,..____.._--_.--.._.. -_ _ "H,

travelling with great attendance, and with great. homage from the people, who
are sometimes greatly impoveriaheil by them, because all the countries they
pass through are obliged to furnish provisions for them, and all their attendants.
That which I particularly observed, as to our in veiling with his baggage, was
this: that though we received sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our
horses, from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged
to pny for every thing we had after the market. price of the country, and tho
msnderin's steward, or connaissury of the provisions, collected it duly from us;
so that our travelling in the retuiue of the mandarin, though it was in. very
great kindness to us, was not such a. mighty favour in him, but was, indeed, it
grunt advantage to him, ,musixlering there were about thirty other people
travelling in the some manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue,
or, as we may call it, under his convoy. This, I say, was a. grout advantage to
him -, for the country furnished all the provisions for nothing, and he look all
our money for them.

We were five-und-twenty days travelling to l'o'sin, through a country
infinitely populous, but miserably cultivated: the husbandry, economy, and the
way of living, all very miserable, though they boast. so much of the industry of
tho peoplewI say miserable; and so it is, if we who understand how to live,
were to endure it, or to compare it wilh our own ; but not so to these poor
wrntchos, who know no other. The pride of these people is infinitelyr great,
and exceeded by nothing,r but their poverty, which mzlrls to than" which I call
their misery. lmnsl: needs think the naked savnges of America live much
more linppy, because, as they have nothing, so they desire nothing ; whereas,
there are proud and insolent, and, in the main, are men: beggars and drudges;
their ostentatiou is incxpressihle, and ii chiclly showed in'their clothes and
buildings, and in the keeping multitudes of servants or slnves, and, which is: to
the lust degree ridiculous, their contempt of all the world but themselves.

I must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards, in the deserts and
v9 t Wildernesses of Grand 'l'nrtary, than hero: and yet the roads here me well
pan-ed and well kept, and very convenient for travellers; but nothing was more
awkward to me than to see such a, haughty, imperious, insolent- people, in the
midst of the grosses . simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed ingenuity is
no more. My friend, Father Simon, and 1, used to be very merry upon those
occasions, to see the beggarly pride of those people. For u'xmnple, coming by
tho house of at country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten
le-nrues oil" l'rom the city oi" Nauquiu, we had, first ol' all, the honour to ride
w h the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
perfect Don Quixotism, being a. mixture of pomp and poverty.

The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a scarnmouuh. or merry-
:zm'lrew, being a. dirty eulico, with all the tawdry trappings of a. fool's c at, such
as hanging sleeves, tufl-'ary, and cuts and slashes almost on every side; it
covered a rich tafl'ety vest, as greasv as u butcher, and which testified, that his
honour must needs be a. most exquisite Blorcu.
  

Ill: horse Visas :1 puor, leun, starved, bubbling ercature, such. as in England
might sell for about. thirty; or forty shillings; and ho had two slaves followed
him on foot, to drive the poor crcalnre along: he had a. whip in his: ham], nnri
he lit-laboured the. boost as fast about the head as his slaves did about the toil ;
and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we were told-he
was going from the city to his country seat, about half o'lcngnc before us. We

' travelled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and
as we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we came by the
country; seat of this great mam, we saw. him in a little place bcl'orn his door,

' _ his l'cpns:-; h. "-11:21 zi'ltiml 01' a gm'den, but he was easy 1.0 he seen; mnl
we were given to understand lhat the more 'we looked on him the better he
would be pleased. .

He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto tree, which tellrectiwllf,~
shaded him over lhe heut'i', and on the su_utli.side; but under the lreo also was
placed :1 large umbrella, which made that part look. well enough; he sat lolling
back in a great elbow chair, being a heavy eorpulent man, and his mom. heir __
brought him by two women slates; ho haul two moro,_whosc otlioo, l think,
few gentlemen in Europe would accept of their service in, namnly, one. fed the
squire with a spoon, and the other held tho. (ligh with one hand, and scraped
ol'l' what lu- let fall upon his worship's board and tat'iety vest; with the min;
whilo the great for hrute thought it below him to employ his own hmnls in any
ol'thuse familiar offices, which kings and monarchs would rather do than be
troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants. - .

I Look this time to think 'whnt 1min men's pride huts them to, and how
troublesome 9. haughty temper, thus ill managed, Inns}. he to n man of common
sense; and, leaving the poornrctch to please himself with our looking on. him,
as if we admired his pomp, wlmreas'wc really pitied and routemnml him, we
pursued our jnnr , ; only Father Simon had the mu-iosit ' to stay, to ll)yll'ln
himself'whnt (lainlies the conning-justice had to (bed on, in'nll his sizite, which,
he snid, he had the honour to taste of, andwhich was, I think, a dose that an
English hound wonhl'scarce have eacm), if it had been offered him, namely, :1
mass of boiled rice; with a. grcnl. piece of garlic in it, and 2. little hug filled \\'ll.l|
green pepper, and. another plant which they have there, something like our
ginger, but smelling like musk, and lasting like mnsmrd--all this was put
together, and n smnll lnmpor piece 01' lean mutton'boilcd in it; and (his was
his worship's rcpsxst, four or five servants more ntinucling at n distance. ll'llm
l'm'l lhem manner tlmn'he was l'erl himself, the spice excepted, they must. I'm-e
very coarsely indeed. ' .

As for our mnndzu'in with whom we travelled, he was rcspeolml like a king
--surroundecl always with his! gentlemen, and attended, in all his appearances,
With such pomp, that. I saw little of him but at a distuncn; but this I nhserved,
that there was not a horse in his I'etiuue but that: our carrier-5' pachhorses in
England seem [0 me to look much better; but the).r were so covered with
oquipnge, mantles, trapping>>), and such like trumpery, that you cannot see
wt.whether they are fat or lean Tn 'l word ' '
. . . ' - , we could scarce see an ' flnnu but
then: feet and then! heads. 3 a

2:
Z
a
a
a
g
E
..

'I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexily Hm I had
given an account of being over, I had no nnxious 'lhoughis about meJ which
made this journey mnch the pleasanter to me; nor had I any iIl-nccident attendedwumfim>> .1.. .... ,, 51:19:12.>>,-

,mvmz'mmns or nonwaox (1111:3011.
111e,ollly1n the passing or fording amnall 1ive1', my 1101 ~11 fell, and made 1110
free of the country, as they call' il--thnt 1s in my, threw me in; the Flow was
not deep, but it .vrettcrl me all over. I mention it, because it. spoiled in};
non: 41001;, whmein [had set down. the names of several people and. nieces
which I had occasion to rcmmnber, and which, not. taking due care of, Lhn
loan as 1-,otl.cd and the Words 11 e111 never after to ho re:11l,to my: areal: loss as to
line 11511195 oi some places which I touched at. in this vo'vngo.

At length we anived at I'eln'n. l had nobody wilh me but the 11011111,
whom my nephew the captain had given me m. ntleml me as n servant, and who
proved very 11.11%}: and diligent , and 1113 partner haul. nobody with him but one
servant, who "'21:: :1 kim'mun. As for the Portuguese 1.11.11, he being desirous
1.0 sec .110 court, we gave him hi: passage, that' is to say, hora his chmges for
his company and lo use him as an inteiju'etm--fur he understood the lama-unto
ol the country, and spoke good I'rench 111111 a little English; and, indeed, this
old man was a most uscl'ul 1111p! .emeut to us ch'ywlieie; for we had not been
Above :1 11' eel: at Pekin, when he came laugrhing: " Ah, Soigniur Inglese ' said
he, "I have something to tell vou will nmke ymxrl1nartSShul.'----" My heart
glad. "' said I, " when can that. he? I don't know an - thing 1n this country can
either give me joy or griefhto any great degree."---" Yes, yes," said the old
11121.11, in broken English, " make you glad, me sorrow "--sofly he would have _
said. This made me more inquisitive. " Why," said I, " will it make you -
..- sorry?'---"Bec1use,"said he, "vmi have l):'00fY=ht me here twenty-five (law i
}' journev, and will leave me to :10 back 11lone;nml which wnv shall I "(it to my .' I
V port mini-wards, without a. ship. without a liaise, without pet-111105" 210 he called .;
money; being his broken Laiin, of which he had abundance to make us
momr with. -

l'n sl1mt,l1e told us there was a great cam an of Museory and Polish mer-
chants in lho cilv, and that 11103? were preparing to set out on their' 10111 noy by
land, to Muacory, within four (11' the weeks, and he was sure we would take
the opportunity to go wi'lt them, and leave him behind to go back alone. I
confess I was 1111111114211 at this news: :1. sucret jov spientl itself 01- er my whole
soul, which I cannot describe, and. never fall. before or since, and I had no
11011 er, for :1. good while, to speak :1 wmd [.9 the old 111:1.11; but. at. last I tnr nod
to him. "How do you know this?" skid I; "are you sure it is true fr"--
" Yes," he said, " I met this morning in the street an old acquaintance of mine,
an Armenian, or one you call a Grecian, who is among them 5 he came last
from Astraenn, and was designing to go to Tonqnin, where I formerlyknew
him, but has altered his mind, and. is now resolved to go back with the carer 1m
to Moscow. and. so. down the river of Wolga to Astrncnn." -" Well, Seignior," 1
said I, "do not be uneasy about being left to go hat-l: alone; if this be u .
method for my 1'.'ol111n to England, it shall be your fault if vou go hackle " '
Mncao at all. ' We then w cut to consult together what was to he done, and
I asked my partner who: he thought of the pilot's news, and 11 hether il: would
suit with his affairs: he told me he would do just as I woultf; for he hadAlWl-I'STURES on nomxgnn cur-503,
settled all his affair! so well at Bengal, and lelt his eil'ecta in such good hands,
that as we made a good voyage here, if he could rest it in China silks, wrought
and raw, such as might be worth the carriage, he would be content to go. to
England, and than make: his voyage hack to Bengal by the Company's ships.

Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that, ii" our Portuguese nilot would
go with us, we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to England, il' ho pleased;
nor, indeed, were we to he continued over-generous in thou part neither, if we
had not rewarded him further; for the service he had done us was really worth
all that, and more; for he had not only been a. pilot to us at son, but he had
been also like unbroken for us on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan
merchant was some hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted
together about it; and, lining willing to gratify him, which via-9, indeed, hm
doing him justice, and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he
was :r most: necessary mm on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity
of coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to about one hundred and seventy-
live pounds sterling between us, and to hear his charges, both for himself and
horse, except only a. horse to corr)r his goods.

Having settled this among ourselves, we called him to let him know what
we had resolved upon: i told him he had complained of our being like to let
him go hack alone, and I was now to tell him we were resolved he should not
go hawk at all-thal:, as we had resolved to go to Europe with the caravan, we
resolved also he should go with us, and that we called him to know his mind.
He shook his head, and said it. was it long journey, and he had no pecunc to
carry him thither, nor to subsist himself when he come thither. \Vc told him,
we believed it was so, and, diuefore, we lmxl resolved to do something for him,
that should let him see how sensible we were of the service he had (lone us,
and also how agreeable he WM to no: and then I told him what we had
resolved to give him herotwhioh he might lay out as we Would do our own;
and that as for his charges, if he would go with nu, we would not him snl'u
ashore (life and casualties excepted), either in Mnscovy or in England, which
he would, at our own charge, exoopt only the carriage of his goods.

He received the proposal like a, man transported, and told us he would go
with us over the whole world; and. so, in short, we all prepared ourficlves for
the journey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants
~theirhaxl many thingsto rim-lurid, instead of being ready in five weeks, it
was Four months and some odd days before all things were got logothcr.

It was tho beginning of February, our style, when we. set out from Pekin.
My partner and (he old pilot had gone express hack to the port When! ho hnd
first put in, to dispose of some goods which we had lol't there; and I, wnh a
Chinese Mel'dmlll-, whom-l had'sonie knowledge of at Nmiquiu, and who came
to Pekin on his own affairs, wont to Nauquin, whore I bought ninuty pieces oi"
fine damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silks, ol:scvcrnl
sorts, some mixed with gold, and had nll those brought: to Pxihili nggiuist nrv
partner's return: besides this, we bought a very large quantity of raw Silk,
 

and some other goods, our cargo amounting, in these goods only, to about three
thousand five hundred pounds sterling, which, together with tea, and some fine
calicoes, hud three camel-loads of nutmeg: and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for-om- shm-e, besides those we rode- upon; which, with. two or three

spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-

six cn'mcls and howeu in our retiuue.

The compan) was veryh <<root, and, 11:; near us I can remember, made
between three and four hundred horses and camels, 11ml upumd of 11 hundred
and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all events. For, as the
custom caravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the
Tau-tars; but they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, not so har-
lmrm'ts when they prevail. '

The company consisted of pnoplo of'several nations, such as the Muscoritcs
chiefly ; for there wore about sixty of them who were merchants or inhabitants
of Moscow, though of them' some were Livoniuns: and; to our particular satis-
faction, five of them wem' Scots, who appeared also to be men of great expo-
rience in business, and verv good isubstuuce. -

When no 111111 navelled one doy'"s.iou1ncy,thc guides, who were five in
number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, l.l1at' is to say, all the passen-
gers, except the servants, to :1 great council, as they termed it. At this great.
council, 017913 one deposited 11 certain quantity of money to aoommon stock,

for the necessmy cupcnsc oi buying l'umgo on the way, where it was not
otherwise to ho had, {111d for satisfying 'hc Hui-lea, getting houses, and the like.
And' here the}r constituted the journey, as they called it, namel), they named
captains and officers to'dmw us all up, and give the command in case of an
attack; and gave ovary one their tum of command. N01- was this forming: us
into order anymore than what we found neodful upon the way, as shall be
observed in its place.

The 10nd all on this side of tho count1 y is very populous, and is full of
pottcis and emthmnkors--that' 15 to say, people that tempered the. earth for the
China. Ware; and as I was going along, our Portuguese pilot, who had always
something or other to 311)? to make 112.1 1111:1731. c1111": snoering to me, and told me
he would show the greatest rarity in all the country; and that. I should have
this to say ol' China, after all the ill--humourod things [had said of it, tlmtI
had seen one thing which was not to he seen in all the world beside. I was
ve1y importnnntc to know what it was; at Inst, he told me it was a. gentlemnn's
house, built all with China wore. " Well, " sad I, "are not the materials of
their building the p1oduct' or their own country; and so it is all China ware, is
it not??'~--"No, 110," says he, "I mean, his :1. house all made of China ware,
such as you call so in England; or, as it is called in our county, porcelain."--
"'_Well," said I, " such a thing may be:.how big is it? can we carry it in a
box upon a. camel? if 'we can, we will bu}r it."-----" Upon :1 camel i" said the
old pilot, holding up both his hands: "why, there is a family of thirty people
lives in it."I was then curious indeed in xee it- and W) I "m ' ' - '- I

, ieu came to see It, Ii. \\ a>> n

nothing buttllis~it was a timber house, or a house built, as we call it. in {El
England, with lath and plaster, but all the plastering was really China ware. E
that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that makes China whrc. -
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and lacked vcrv A
well, perfectly white, and {mini/ed wizh blur; figures, as the large China ware in ii
; England is painted, and hard as if it had been burnt. As to the. inside, all the a,
I: walls, instead of wninscot, were lilwd with hard and painted files, like the little
sqnm'c tiles we call galley tiles in England, all made of the finest China, and '

 

m

 

.If

   

the figures exceedingly fine indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours,
mixed with gold, many tiles making but one figure, but. joined so artificially
Y with mortar, being made of the slime earth, that i!>> was very hard to see whore
p the tiles met. The floors of the rooms were of the same composition, and as
5? hard as the earthen floors we havc in use in several parts of England, especially
\'*

 

\i" :

    

_ Lincolnshirc, Nntfinghamshirc, Leiceslm'shire, &c., as hard as stone, and

'.," smooth, but not burnt and painted, except some smaller rooms, like closets, I:
which were all, as it were, paved will) the same lilo: the ceiling, and, in n g.

l} word, all the plastering work in the whole. house, Were of the. same (myth; and, Q

,4 . '
 

 

         
     
       

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

 

 

 

after all,-thc roof was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining
black.

This was a China. warehouse indeed, truly and literally to be called so;
and had I not been upon the journey, I could have staid some days to see and
examine the partimilm-s of it, They told me there were fountains and lish- h..-
ponds in the garden, .ull paved at the hotlom and sides with the same, and finer
3 nine: set up in rows on the wants, entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and.
burnt whole. 5

As this is one of the singularities of China, on they may be allowed to excel ,_
in it; bill: I am very sure they excel in their accounts of ilwl'or they told me 7;
such incredible things of their performance in crockery-wore, for such it. is, ~
that I (am-o not to relate, as knowing it. could not be true. One told me, in "
particular, of a workman that mode at ship, with all its tackle, and masts, and
soils, in earthenware, big enough to carry fifty men. If he had told me he
launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in it, I, might have said something to
it indeed: but as it was, I knew the whole story, which was: in short, risking
pardon for the word, that the Yellow lied; so I smiled, and said nothing to it.

This odd night kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the louder
of it for the day fined me nhout the value of three shillings; and told me, if it 4
had been three days" journey without the wall, as it was three dag-'5' within, he
must have fined his four times as much, and made me ask for pardon the next
coiuxcil day: so I promised to he more orderly; for, indeed, I found al'lm'wnrds
the orders mnde for keeping all together were absolutely necessary for our
common safety.

In two days more we passed the great. Chins. wallnnade for a'l'ortification
against the Tat-laws; and a very great work it. is, going over hills and moun-
tnins in an endless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the precipiceu
such as no enemy could possibly enter, or, indeed, climb up, or where, if they
dithno wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thousand
English miles, but that the country is five hundred, in a, straight measured
line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and lurnlngs it
takes: it is about four fixthoms high, and as many thick in some places.

. I stood still an hour or tlxoreuhouts, without. trespassing on our orders, (in-
so long the caravan was in passing the gum--I say, I stood still an hour to
kink at it, on every side, near and for oil'. I mean what was within my View;
and the guide 01' our caravan, who had been extolling it for the wonder of the
world, was might-y eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most
excellent thing to keep all the 'l.'urlnrn, which he happened not. to um'loi'otautd
as I merml. it, and so tool>>; it for a compliment: but the old pilot laughed: " O,
Scignior 'lngleue," snid he, "you spool: in colours."--" In colmirsl" said I,
" what do you mean by that?"----" W 11y, you speak wind, looks white this way,
mid block that wny~gny one way, and dull another way: you tell him it is a
good wall to keep out Tartan: you tell me by that, it is good for nothing but
to keep out Tartan-s; or, will keep out none but. Tar-tars. I understand you,

462Scignior ,l'nglomJ nndm'stand you," saidhn, joliing; "but: 5 ignior Chinese
undarstand you his) own way."

" W'ell." said I, " Seigiiior, do you think it. would stand out an arnw of our
country people, with a good train 0F artillery; or our engineers, with two
Campanile>> ol"minors? Would they not batter it down in ten (law, that; an
army might enter in battalia, or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that
there should be no sign of it left?"~" Ay, try," said he, i= 1 know that." The
Cirinesn wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gavn him leave to tell him
a few days afiet', for we wm-a then almost: out ol' l.h( - country, and he was 5,,
have no in 9. little time afterwards: but when he knea- what I had said, ho was
dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more of his line story of Chinese
power and greatnc 55 while he staid.

Alim- wo had passed this mighty nothing, hailed a, wall, snmolhingz~ like
[he Picts' wall, so famous in Norrluunherland, nml built by tho liomalii, we
hegan to find the country thinly inhabited, and tho pimple rather confined to
live in fortified towns and civil ' as subgect to the inroads and deprcdations ol'
the 'l'ztrlars. who rel) in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted h)-
the naked inhabitants of an open country.

And here I began to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan, as.
we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tar-tors roving about; Inn: "iron I
mine to see them distinctly, I wondered how that the Chinese mnpiru could he

' conquered by such contempeible fellows; for they are a mere herd or crowd ol'
wild fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no discipline, or manner of
fight.

Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught nothing, and are ill.
for nothing; and this was found the first day we saw them, which was al'lcsr
we entered the wilder part. of the country. Our leader for the (lay guru lea>>. |'
for about. sixteen of us to go :L-hnnting, as they call it: and what was this lint.
hunting of sheep! However, it: may he called hunting too; for the creatures
are the wildest and swiftest of foot, that ever I saw of their kind; only Hwy
will not run a great: way, and you 3.11.9 sum of sport when you ling-in tho chasr;
for they appear generally by thirty or forty in a, flock, and, like true sheep,
always keep together when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd. sort. 01' game, it was our imp to meet with ahunt forty
Tar-tars: whether they were hunting inntton as we were, or whether they
looked for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as they saw us, one
of them blow 9. kind of horn very land, but with a. barbarous sound that: I had
never heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again. We all
supposed this was to call their friends abort: them; and so it was; for in last
than half a Quarter of" an hour, a troop of forty or fifty morn appeared, at about
a mile distance; but. our work was over first, as it happened.

Ono of the Scots merchants or" Moscow happened to be umonn - us; and as
soon as he heard the horn, he told us, in short, that. we had nothing to do hat.
to charge them immediately, without loss ol' film; and, dTWiflg "5 "P 1" a
 

line, he asked if we were resolved? We told him we were ready to follow
him; so he rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like o more
crowd, drawn up in no order, not showing the face of my order at all; but as
soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows; which, however, missed

' us very happily: it seems they mistook not their aim, but their "distance; for
their arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true on aim, that. had we
been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several men wounded, if
not killed.

Immediately we hnlmd; and though it was ot a great distance, we fired,
and sent them leaden bullois for wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop,
resolving to fall in among them sword in hand ; for so our hold Scot that led
us directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant, but. he behaved with that vigour
and bravery on this occasion, and yet. with such a. cool courage too, that I
never saw any man in action iiuor for command. A3 soon as we came up to
them, we iii-ad our pistols in their faces, and then drew ; but they fled in the
greatest. confusion imaginable; the only stand any of them made was on our
right, where three of them stood, and by signs called the rest to come back to
11mm, having is kind of soymitnr in their hands, and their bows hanging at their
hacks. Our bravo commander, without asking any hotly to follow him, golloued
up close to them, and with his l'usil knocked. one of them of? his horse, killed the
second with his pistol, and the third ran away--and thus ended our fight ; but
we had this misfortune attending it, namely, that all our mutton that we had in
chose getaway. We had not a man killed- or hurt; but, as for the Tm'Lm-s,
there were about five of them killed--how many worn wounded we know not ;
but this we know, that the other party was so i'righted with the noise of our
guns, that they lied, and never xmule any attempt upon us.

W'e were all this while in the Chinese (loininions, and therefore the Tartars
were not so bold as afierwursls; but,_in about five days, wo entered a vast:
great wild desert, which held :15 three dag-8' and nights' march: and we were
obliged to carry our water with us in great leather bottles, and to oncmup all
night, just as I have heard they do in the deserts of Arabia.

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in? and they told me this was
a kind of border that might be called No Man's Land, being port of the Great
Knrnknthy, or Grand 'l'artory, but that, however, it was reckoned to China;
that there was no care taken here to preserve it. from tho inroads of thieves;
and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in tho whole min-ch, though we
were to go over some much larger. _ '

In passing this Wilderness, which, I confess, was at the first view very
frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties of the Tartan, but
they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to haveno design upon us; and
so, like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing to say to us, we had
nothing. to say to them i, we let them go. I . _

Once, however, a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us;
whether it. was to consider what they should do, namely, to-attnck us or notMun-n

~:--.~.H

.m

to attack us, we knew not; but when we were passed at some distally-e by
them, we made a rear--guard of forty men, and 520ml read" for them llbttinlr
the caravan pas: half a mile or thm'eahouts before us, After awhlle the:
marched ofi', (ml).r we found they assaulted us with five arrows at their parting
one of" which wounded '9. horsc so that it disabled him; and we left him till;
next day, poor creature, in great need of :1 good fan-tier. 'Wc supposed ilwv
might shoot more arrows, which might [all shurt of us; but we saw no mun-Tu
arrows; or Tm'ttu's, at that timer

 

We travelled near a month after this,1.he w: 5 being not so good as at
first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but lay, for the
most: part, in villages, some of which were fortified, becuusn'. of" the incursions
of the Tau'teu-s. When' we came to one of these towns (it was about two and
a half days' journey harm-0. we.werc to come to Ihc city of Nanm),1wm1ml
to buy a. camel, of which there are plumty to be sold all the way upon that
road, and of horses also, such as they arc, because so many caravans coming

 

 

w
 

that way,tl1ey are very often wanted. The person that I spoke to get me a
cmnel, would have gone and ("etched it for me; but I, like a fool, must be
olficieus, and go myself along with him. The plane was aliout two miles out of
the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels and horses feeding under .1.
gum-d.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot in company, and a Chinese, being
desirous, l'orsool-h, of a little variety. When we came to this place, it was a
low marshy ground, walled round with a atone wall, piled up dry, withoul.
nun-hu- or earth among il, like :1 pink, with :1 little guard of Chinese soldiers m.
111;.- 110015. Hun/inc bought a camel, 11nd agieed for the price, 1 come nwav- ,
111111 the Chinese man that went with me led the camel, when 011 a sudden
come 11111 1' ve 1111 (ms on hmsebmzk: two ol' than seized the fellow, and took
the camel from him, while tho other three stepped up to me and my pilot;
seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for, I had no weapon nhout me but my sword,
which could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came up
stopped short upon my drawing sword (for they are arrant. cowards); but a.
second coming upon my loll, gave me' a. lilow on the head, which I never felt
till ellorwm'ds, and wondered, when I came to. myself, what was the mailer
with 11113,:u1r1 where I was, for he laid median 011 the ground; but my never--
failing old pilot, the Ponnguese (50 Providence, unlocked-for, directs deliver-
nnces from dangers which to us are unforeseen), had l1 pistol in his pocket,
which I knew nothing of, nor the 'l'm'lm's neither: ii' they had, I suppose they
would not have attacked us; but cowards; are air; uys boldest when there is'no
danger.

The old man, seeing me down, with :1 hold heart stepped up lo the fellow
that had struck me, and laying hold of his 111111 with one hand, 21nd pulling
him down by min force 9. little towards him with the other, he shot him into
the head, and laid him dead on the spot; he then immediately stepped up 1.1)
him who had slapped 11s, (is I said, and hefore he could come (in-ward gain
("11' il. was all done, as it were, in A moment), made a blow at him with :1
s-_-_y1nit:1r, which he always wore, but. missing the 111311, cut his horse into the
side of head, out one of his cars all by the root, and a great. slice down the
side of his face. The poor beast, enraged with the wounds, was 110 more to
be governed by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough foo, but away he
flew, 11nd carried him quil'e out of the pilot's reach; and, at some distance,
iising upon his hind legs, threw dorm the 'l'artur, and fell upon him.

In this interml the poor Chinese came in who had losl lhe c;ti11el,lml.ho
had no weapon; however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon
him, he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill- favoured weapon he had by
his side, something like it pole--axe, but not 11 pole-axe ei|.,hcr he 1v1e11ched it
from him. and made shift to knock his Tarmrian hriina out with it. But 111:.
old man had the lhird Tartar to deal with still; and,seei11ghe did not ilv as
he expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock
still, the old man stuml still too, and falls to work with his tackle to cinuge hisATH'ESI'CRIES OF ROBINSON (1111150112.

pistol again ; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, whether he supposed it
to he the same or nnathcr T know not, but away he matured, mid left my pilot,
my champion I called him afterwards, a comploee victory.

By this time I was a little awake; for l thonght,whcn I first hogan in
awake, that I had been in a, sweet sleep: but in! I said nlmvc, I wondered where
I was, how I came upon (hcgrouml, and w hat was the mailer: in a Ward, a
few minutes after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I <<lid not-lmow where;
I clapped my hand to my heml, and took it. away bloody ; (hen I felt my head
Robin; and then, in smother moment, memory returned, and every thing was
present to me ngnin.

I jumprd up upon my f'cet instantly, and got hold of my sword, hut. no
enemies in View. I founrl n Tartar lying dead, and his horse <<mulling wry
quietly by him'; and, looking farther, I snw my champion and. ( rower, who
had been to see wlml. the Chinese hacl (lune, coming back with his hangur in
his hand. The old man, seeing me on my feet: came running to put-,zuul
embraced me with a great deal nf joy, being afraid before that I luul bran
killed, and,'seeing mc bloody, would see how I was hurt--<<hut it was not much,
only what we call a broken head; neither (lid I afterwn (13 find any great in-
cmweniencevfrom the blow, other than the place Which was hurt, and whirh
was well again in two or three (la; is.

We made no great gain, however, by this victory ; for we lost a <<mud, and
gninctl a. horse: but that. which was remarkable, when we came hack to the
Village, the man demanded to he paid for the cam-e]. I disputed it, and it was
brought to a. hearing before lhc Chinese judge of the place; that i=. to my, in
English, we went before- n. justice of the peace. Give him his due, he acted
with a great- rleal of prudenc-'s and impartiality; and having heard both si '
l1?- gravely asked the Chinese man that went with nu: in buy the mun-l, wlmm:
servant he was. ?>>- <<"1 am no scrum," said he, "bur, went with the stranger."
"Al. whose requeat? .iicl the justice. "At the string-aria request? sum "in
" W'hy, then," said the ju ice, "you were _the stranger's servant for the lime;
and the camel being delivered in his servant, it was delivered to him, anrl he
must- pay for in" .

I confess the thing was so clear, that-1 hurl not :I worn! in say; but admiring
in see such just reasoning-upon lhe consequence, and so accurate slitting the
L 3e, I puinl willingly for Ihe (:xmul, and sent for another; but you Imyn. ,.-crvc,
I sent for it; I did not go to fetch it myscll'any more Iliad had enough of
that.

The city of Naum is a Frontier ol' the Chinese empire: 1hr); call it fortified,
and so it is as fortifications <<m lluaro; for this I will venture to aliinn, that all
the 'l'm'ears in Karallmthy, which, I believe, are some millions, could not hailar
(1mm [he walls will) their bows and arrows; but to call it strung, il'it were
attacked with cannon, would be to make "man who understand iL laugh at you.

We wanted, :13 I have said, about two days' journey 01" this a-i _ , \vlmn
messengers wore sent-express to every part of the road, to tell all travellers
 

and caravans to halt, till they had a guard sent in them; 'for that an unusual
body of Tartara, making ten thousand' In all, had appehrcd' In the way, about
thirty miles be) and the ciny >>

This was very bad news to travellers: however, it was carefully done of
the governor, and we was veI y glad to hem we should have :I guard Accm d- 1-,
l; V ingly. two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison (If i
x I Ihe Chinese on our left, and the: hundred mom from the city of Nauru, and '

"It with Ihuse we advanced boldly: the three hundred soldiers fmm N'aum \-
{f marched In our hunt, the two hnndIed In our rear, and any men on each side ' .

i' of our camels with our baggage, and the whole caravan in our centre In Ibis 6".
:3 order, and. well firepnred for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the i'
y" whole Ion thousand Mogul Tartnrs, if they had appeared; but the next day, ei"
when they did appear, it was quite another thing.

It was early in the morning, when, marching from II little well situated
town, called Changu, we had a river to pose, where we were obliged to ferry:
and had the Tartnrs had any intelligence, then had heen Ihc time to have _
nttaeked us, when, the caravan being over, the rem" guard was behind; but }
. they did not appem there.

1 About: three homs alter, when we wme cnIerctl upon n desert of about
_ fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at hand; and they were or, hand, indeed, for they came on upon e

- the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the day before,
hogan to stagger, and the soldiers frequently looked behind them, which is a
certain sign in :I Isoldier that, he is just- ready to run away. My old pilot was 1-,

. _of my mind; and being new: me, he called out: "Seignior Inglese," said he,

'; " those fellows must be encouraged, or they will min as nll; for if the Tamara
come on, they will never sland it."--" l aim of your mind," said I ; " but what. .'
course must be done ?"---"Done 1'" said he; let. {iii-y ol' our men ndvanee, and
flank them on each wing, and encourage them, and they will light like brave
fellows in brave company; but without it, they will every man turn his back."

' Immediately I rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; and accordingly, fifty of ne marched to the right wing, and 'fifty to the
left, and the rest made a line of reserve; for so we marched, leaving the last
two hundred. men In make smother body to themselves, and to guard the
camels; only that, if need were, they should send a. hundred men to assist the
last fifty.

In a. word, the Tartan: come on, and an innumerable company they were;
how main}r we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was the least. A
party of them came on "hit, and viewed our posture, traversing the'gronnd in
the front of our line; and a,>> we found them within gun--shot, our leader ordered
llIe two win'gs to advance swiftly and give them a mine on each wing with

 

"a

1;? We .. raven-area '

I...>>

 

 

IA their shot, which was done; but they went on; and, I suppose, went back to
53" give an account of the reception they were like to meet with: Mid,,indecd,

468

   

.3ng

Afifmfimqw

.6} kg
that snlnle clogged their stimulus; for they immediately halteil, stootl awhil;
to consider of it, and, wheeling ofl' m the left, they gaue over the design,':mil
said no more r.) us for that time: which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but. very indifi'crent. for a. battle with such a number.

Two (lays after this we came to the City of Nauru, or Naumn. We thanked
the governor for his care for us, and collected to the value ol' one hundred
crowns or l-liereabmxts, which we gave to the uoldiers sent to guard us; and
here we rested one day. This is n. garrison, indeed, and there were nine hun-
dred soldiers kept- here; but. the reason of it was, that formerly the Mnseovitc
frontiers lay nearer to them than the}: do now, lhe Muscovites having aban-
doned that part of the country (which lies from the city west, for about two
hundred miles}, as desolate and unfit. for use, and moi'u especially, lacing an
very remote, and so diflinuli to send troops hither for its defence; for we had
yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so called.

Afier this we passed several great rivers, nnd two drcaxll'ul deserts, one of

which we were sixteen days passing over, and which, as i said, waslu-he called

.'lo Man's Land; and, on UN 13111 oi' April, we came to the frontiers of the

Muscovire dominions. I think the first city, or town, or fortress, whatever it
might- he called, that belonged to the Czar oi' l\-luscovy,- was called Argun,
being on the west side of the river Argun.

I could not but. discover an infinite sutisfiwtion, that I was now arrived in,
as l called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in n country governed by
Christians; for though the Museovilea rlo, in my opinion, but just deserve the
name of Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are very devout in their

_ way. .It would certainly occur In any man who travels the world as I have
(louemnd who had any power of reflection--l say, it would occur to him, to
T050015 what a. blessing it is to he brought inio the world where the name of
G011: and of a Redeemer, is known, worshipped, and adored--and not. where

459{he people, given up by Heaven to strong delusions, worship the devil, and
prostrntc' thcmsclros to stocks and stones--worship monsters, elements, horrihly
shaped animals, and statues, or images, ol' monsters. Not a town or city we
passed through but had their pagoda, their idols, and their tamples; and
ignorant people worshipping even the works of their own hands!

Now we came where, at: least, a lime of the Christian worship appeared;
where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and, whether ignoramly or not, yet the
Christian religion was owned, and . the name of the true God was called upon
and adored; and it made the very recesscs of my soul rejoice to see it. I
saluted the brave Seota merchant I mentioned above, with my firslracknoiv--
ledgmcnt of this; and, taking him by the hand, I said to him, "Blessed be
God, we are once again come among Christiansl" He smiled, and answered,
"Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; thcsc Muscorites are but an odd sort:
of Christians: and but for the main 6r it, you may see vary lilxlo of the
substance for some months farther of our journey. '

"' Well," said 1, "but still it is better than paganism, and horshipping
of ilerils."---" Why, I'll mil you," said he, " except 'the Russian soldiers in
garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon tho road, all the rest
of lhis country, for above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by tho worst
and most ignorant. of yagaus." And so indeed we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid cm-Lh, il' I under-
stand any thing of the surface of the globe, that is to he found in any part of
the world: we had at least twelve hundred miles to the sea, eastward; ive had
at leagztwo thousand to the bottom of ihe Baltic Sea, westward; and almost.
three thousand miles, if we left that sea and went on west to .le British and
French channels; we had i'ull five thousand miles to the Indian, or Persian
'Scn, south; and about. eight hundred miles to the Frozen Sea, north--nay, il'
some people may be believed, there might be no sea north-cast till we came
round the pole, and, consequently, into the north-west, and so had a continent
of land into America, no mortal knows whore: though I could give some
reasons why I believe that to be a. miasLalw too.

As we cum-red. inho the Muscoviw dominions, n good while before we came
to any considerable town, we had nothing to observe there but this--first, that
all l-lle rivers ran l0 [he east. As I understood by the charts which sumo, (ll.
our caravans had with them, it was plain that all those rivers ran into the great
river Yainour or Gammour. This river, by the natural course of it, must run
into the East Son, or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth
of this river is choked up with balrushes of a monstrous growth, naunoly, three
feet ahm ind twenty or thirty fer-f high, I mum: he allowed to say I believe
nothing of; but as its navi" ion is of no use, because there is no trade (haf-
wny, the Tin-tars, to whom alone it belongs, dealing in nothing but call-la, so
nobody, that ever I heard of, has been} curious, enough either to go down to the
month of it in boats, or to come from the mouth of it in ships; but this
certain, thauhis river running due east in the latitude of sixty degrees, carriers
:1. vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an ocean to emptv itself
in that latiindc: so we are sure ol'srm there. i

Some leaguos to the north of this river there are several considornhle rivers.
whose streams run as due north as tho Yunnur runs east; and the" are all
found to join their waters with the great river, Tar-torus, named so from the
northernmost nation?- nl' the Mogul Torture, who, ihe Chineso say, were the
iii-st'l'armrs in the world; and who, as our geographers allege, are the (9mg
and Magog nxgniioped in sacred history.

There rivers running all northward, as well as all the other rivers I am wt
to speak of, made it. evident. that the Northern Ocean bounds the land algoiuu
that side; so that it does um: seem rational in the. least. to think that the lmnl
can extend itself to join with America an that aide, or that. there is not a ('mu-
muuication between the Northern and the Eastern Ocean: but of this I " all
say no more; it was my observation at that time, a. 1 therefore I take in .ice
of ii: in this place. We now advanced from the river Arguii, by mar and
moderate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the r of
M'uscovy has taken to have cities and towns built in as many places as are
possible. to place them, whore his soldiers keep garrison, something like the
stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of their
empire, some of which, I had real], were particularly placed in Britain fur the
security of commerce, and for the lodging of travellers; and [has it was here ;
though wherever we came at. iheso Mania and sinuous, the garrisuns and
governor were Russians, and professed Cin'islians, yet the inhahilants were
were pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars,
or all the host: (if heaven : and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and
pagans that ever I met w"-h, tho mast [mi-barons, except only that. they <<lid
not eat mmi's llcsh, as our savages of America. did.

Some instances ol' this we met with in the country hatwmn Ill-gun, where
we enter the Muscovitu (lon'rinions, and n city of Tartar>> and Russians together,
called Norrzinslmy; in which space is a continued desert or forest, which cost
as twenty (lays to travel over it. In a village near the last of those places, I
haul the curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most. hrutisl: and
instiflbrahlc: they llPS\(l,1 suppose, a great sacrifice 1.1m. day; for there stood
out upon an old stump of a tree an idol made of wuuxl, frightful as the (ac ii
at least as any thing we ran think of to rnprescnz the devil leL can be in .
It had a head certainly not so much as resembling any creature that the world
ever saw--ears: as big as goals' horns, and as high--eyes as big- as a crown
piece, and s. nose like a crooked rum's horn--"and a mouth extended four-
cornerefl, like. that ol' {1. lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot" under
bill. It. was (lreuaed up in the filthiost. manner that. you can auppos . . .5 upper
garment. was of sheep skins, with the wool outward : a great Tartar bonnet. on
the head, with two horns growing through it: it was ahout eight feet. high: yet
had no feet. or legs, or any other proportion of parts.

This scarecrow was set up at, the outside 01" the village; and when I came
 

near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether men or women I
could not tell, for they make no distinction by their habits, either of body or

' head ;' these lay all flat on the ground, round this formidable black of shapcless
wood. I saw no motion among them any more than if they had been logs of
wood, like their idol--at first I really thought they'lmd been so; but when I
came a little nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised :1 howling cry,
as ii'it had been so many deep--mouthed bounds, and walked away as if they
were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way off from this monster,
and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of sheep skins and cow skins, dried,
stood three butchers: Ithought they were such; for when I came nearer to
them, ll'oundthey had long knives in their hands, and in the middle of the.
tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it
seems, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol, and these three men
priests belonging to it; and the seventeen prostrntcd wretches were the people
who brought the offering, and were making their prayers to that stock.

I confess I was more moved at their shipidity, and this brutish worship of a
hobgoblin, than ever I was at anything in my life--to see God's most glorious
and has: creature, to whom he had granted so many advantages, even by
creation, above the rest of the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable
soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker and be honoured by him--I say; to see it sunk and degenerated to -
a degroe so more thnn stupid, as to prostrate itself to-a frightful nothing, n
were inmginory object: dressed up by themselves, and made terrible to them-
selves by their own contrivanco, adorned only with clonts and rags--and that
this should be the client of more ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion
by the devil himself, who, em-ying his Maker the homage and adoration of his
cresrures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting, sordid, and brutish
things, as one would think would shock nature itself.

But what- signified all the astonishment and reflectiouof thoughts? Thus it
was, and I saw it before my eyes;_ and there was no room to wonder at it, or
thinl: it impossible. All my admiration turned to rage ; and I rode up to the
image or monster, call it what you will, and with my sword cut the bonnet
that. was on its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by one of the
horns; and one of our man that was with me, took hold of the sheep skin that:
covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howling
ran through the village, and two or three hundred people came about my ears,
so that I wasr'glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and arrows; but I
resolved, from that moment, to visit them : <<rain. ~ ' '

Our col-even rested three nights at the town, which was about four miles
off, in ordor Lo provide some horses, which'they wanted, several of the horso's,
having been lamm and jaded with the badness of the way, and our long march

oner the last desert; so we had some leisure born to put my design into execu- -' - '

tion. ' I communicated my project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose
courage I had had a. slidicient testimony," above. I told him what I bail
seen, and with what inlligimtion I had since thought that human minim could
he so degeneraie. I hold him I was resolved, if Icnuld get but four or I'm:
men well armed to go with mafia go and destroy that vile abominable idol ; 1.0
let them set: that it had no power to help iiseli', and, consequently, could not be
an object of worship, or to he prayed to, much less help them that ofi'cred
sacrifices to 11.. .

He laughed at me: snid. he, "Your zeal may he good; but what do you
propose to yourself by ii.?"---" Propose!" said I; "to vindicate the honour of
Gull. which is insulted by this devil-worship."

"But how will it vinrlicni/e the honour of God," said he, " while the 11mph-
will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless you could speak to ilieui

ton, and tell them so? and len may will light you too, I will assure you, for
they are desperate fellows,-nnd that espccially in defence of their idolatry." _

" Can we non" said I, " ik>> it in the night, and then leave them the r axons in
writing in their own language? "- --" Writing!" said he: " why, there is not in
life nations of them one man that. knows any thing of a letter, or how it) read
a Word in any language, or in their own."--" Wretched ignorance i" said '1 to
him: " however, I have a great mind to do if; perhaps nature may rlmw ink--
fences from it to Linn"; in let lhcm see how hrutish they are to warship such
horrid l.l:iu;_SSs."-----" Look you, sir," suid he 1 " If your zeal prompts yuu tn ll: 30
wurmlv, You must. do it; but in the next placo, I would have you l30n$ldl"l'
these (villi nations of peeple are suhjm-teil by force Ito the (Mu- af Musccvy's
dominion; and if you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands
to the governor of Nertzinshny, and complain, and demand satisfaction; and if
he cannot. give them sat-islhol-ion, it is ten to one but they revolt; and it will
occasion a new war with all the Tartan: in the country."

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for a while, but 1 harped
upon the same. string still; and all that day I was uneasy to put my project in
execution. Towards the evening the Scots merchant met me by accident in
our wall: about the town, and desired in spcnl: with me. " I believe," said he,
"I have put. you oil'your gnarl design; I have been a little concerned aim at it
since; for I abhor the idol and idolatry as much as you can do.' ---" 'I'rulv '
said I, "you have put it of? a little, as to the execution of it, but ran la are not
put it all our, of my! thouahcs; and I believe, I shall do it still hoi'me I unit
this place, though I were to he delivered up, to them for satisiiiction. --" No,
no," said he, "God Rabid they should deliver you up to such a crew oi
monsters; they shall not do that, neither; that would he murdering you
inclccrl.'--- --'Whv," saidI. "lion would they use mo?"--~ " Use youl 'said he,
" I'll tell you how they scrvml a poor Russian, who afl'rontecl them an (heir
worship just as you did, and whom they'tooli prisoner, after they had lamed
him with an arrow, that he could not run away: they took him and strip'ped
him stark naked, and set him upon the top of the idol monster, and stood all
round him, and shot os'xnany arrows into him as would stick over his whole
boilv: and then they burnt. him, and all file arrows sticking in him, as a
sacrifice to the idol."~--" And was this the same idol? " said I.----" Yes; 5 'd he,
" the very same."-----" Well," said I, "I will loll you a, story." So I related 1.1m
story of our men at Madagascar, and how they burnt and sucked the Village
(hero, and killed man, woman, and child, for their murdering one of our men,
just as itis related hol'orgo and when I had done, I addeddhat I thought we
ought to do so to this village.

lilo listened var y attentively to the storv; but when I talked of doing so to
that villa age, said he, "' You mistake very niuch; it was not this village , i: was
almost a hundred miles from this place; bu! it was the same idol,' .or [hay

. carry him about in pronossion all over the comxtry"----"W'ell," said I, " then
thar idol ought to be punished for it; and it shall," said L "if I live this
night out."

In award finding me resolnm, he liked the design, and fold 111e,} should
not. go alone, but he would go with me; but he would go first, and bring a
stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with as; " and one," said he,
" as famous for his zeal as you can desire any one to be against such devilish
Lhings as these." In a word, he brought. me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he called Captain Richardson; and I gave him a full accouniof what I had
seen, and also what I intended ; and he told me readily he would go with me,
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only am three. I had, indeed,
proposed it to my purl-nor, but he deulined it. He said, he was ready in saris:
me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defence; but that this was anadventure quite out of his way: so, Iray, u'o resolved upon our work, only
we three, and my man-servant, and to put it in execution that night, about
midnight, with all the secresy imaginable.

IIowcrjcr, upon sownd thoughts, we were willing to delay it till the next-
night, because, the caravan heixg to set forward in the morning, we supposed
the governor could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us when we
were out of his power. The Scots merchant, steady in his resolution to
enterprise, and as hold in executing, brought me a Tartar's robe, or gown, of
sheep-shins, and a. bonnet, with n. how and arrows, and had provided the some
for himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, should not he
nhlo to determine who we were.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter with
oquuvitm, gunpowder, and Such other nmieriols as we could get; and having :L
good quantity of tar in a little pot, about whom after night we set out upon
our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that the
people lw.d not the least jealousyof danger attending their idol. The night
was cloudy; yet the moon gnvc ns light enough to sec that the idol sbood just
in the same posture and place that it. did before. The people seemed to ho all
at their rest; only that, in the great hut or cent, as we called it, where we saw
the three priests whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light, and, going up
close to the door, we heard people talking, .04 if there were five or six of them;
we concluded, therefore, that if we set wildfire to the idol, those men would
come out immediately and run up to the place to rescue it from the destruction
that we intended for it; and what- to do with them we knew nut. Once we
thought of carrying it away, and setting fire to it at a distance, but, when we
come to hrmdlc it, we found it. loo bulky for out" carriage; so we were at n loss
again. The second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hot, and
knocking the creatures that wore there on the hand, when they come out; lmt
I could not join with that--I was against killing them, il' it, was possible lo be
avoided. "Well, then," said the Scots merchant, "I will tell you what we
will do 5 we will try to make them- prisoners, iio their hands, and make them
atund and see their idol destroyed."

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about "5, WlllCll "'3
used to tie our fireworks together with; so we resolved to nttncl: tllObO people
first, and with as little noise as we could. The first thing we did we knocked
at the door, when one of the priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon
him, stopped his month,sm<l tied his hands behind him, and led him to the
idol, where we gagged him, that. he might not make a noise, tied his feet also
tngothcr, and left him on the ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that. another would tome out
to see whoi. the matter was; but we waited so long till the third man came
back to us, and than nobody coming out, we knocked again gently, and immo-
diately out came two more, and we served them just in the some nnmner, but'
were obliged to go all with them, and lay them down hy the idol some distance
from one mother; when going back we found two more were come out to the
'door, and a third stood behind lhcm within the door. We seized the two, and
immediately tied them, when the third stopping buck, and crying out, my Scots
merchant went in after him, and taking out n composition we had made, that.
would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it, and threw it in among them: by
that time the other Seeksmnn and my mnn taking); charge of the two men
already hound, and tied togmhcr also by the. arm, led them away to the idol,
:uul loll. them there, to see if their idol would relieve them, making haste
back to us. I '

When the l'urze we had thrown in had filled the hut; with so much smoke
that they were almost aull'oeomd, we then throw in a. :3li leather bag of'
another kind, which flamed like a. candle, and following it in we found there
were hut. four people loll, who, it seems, were two men and two women, and,
us we supposed. had been about some of lhcir diaboliu sacrifices. They '
appeared, in short, frighted to death, at lonst, so as to sit trembling and stupid,
and not able lo speak neither, for the smoke.

In a. word, we took them, hound them as we had the others, and all without
any noise. I should have said, we brought them out of the house," huh, first;
for, indeed, we were not able to hear the smoke any more than they were.
W hen we had done this, we carried them altogether in the idol: when we
come there we fell to Work with him ; and first, we dauhvd him all over, and
his robes :ileo, with Inf, and such other stuff as we lind, which-was tullow
mixed with hrimston'e; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, turd mouth, full of
gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great piece ol' wild fire in his bonnet; and
then sticking all the comhusLihlcs we hurl brought with us; upon him,we looked
about: to see if we could find any i.hing'clse to help to burn him; when my
Scotsman remomhered that by the tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay
a heap ol" dry forage, whether straw or rushes I. do not remember: away ho
and the other Scolsman ran, and fetched their arms in" of that. When we
had done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, having untied their
feet and ungagged their mouths, and made then: slrmd up, and set them just
before their monstrous idol, and then set. lire in the whole.

We staid by it. o quarter of an hour, or thereahouis, till the powder in the
eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up, and, as we could perceive, had
split and deformed the shape of iPmrd, in a word, till we saw it hurnt into a
more black or log of woodwind then, selling the dry forage in it, we found it
would he soon quite uonsumed--So we began to think of going away; but the
Scotsman said, " No, we must not go, for those poor deluded wretches will all
throw themselves info the fire, and burn themselves with the idol." So we
resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then we came away
and left them.

In the morning we appeared among our follow'travellers, exceedingly busy
in getting ready for our journey; nor could any man suggest that we had been-

. 476].
i"

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

ADVENTURES 0!" ROBINSON CRUSOE.

any where but in our beds, as travellers '<< ~ ~> - '
themselves for the l'ittigues ol' that day's jonrhucli'iht be MIPPOSLd '0 1"" t" m

But it did not end so; for the iicxt day enme a. great multitude of tiw
country people, not only of this village,bni. of a hundred more, for aun'ht- I
know, in the town gates; and in a maxi. outrageom manner, demanded :ntis-
faction of the Russian governor, for the insulting their priests, and hnrninv
their great. Cham--Chi-Thanngu; such a hard name thev <<rare the monstrou:
creature they worshipped. The people of Nertziuekay we): at. first in a great
consternation; i'nr they said the 'l'arturs were. no less than thirty lhonsmnh and
that. in a. few days more they would be mm hundred thousand stronger.

The Russian governor sent out. nwssvngers to appease them. and gave them
all the good words imaginable He nssnrecl than he knew nothing 'ol' iL, :unl

   

that there hm not. a soul of his garrison been ahruad : that it. could net be from
any hudy there. and il' they would let him know who it. was, he should he
exemplm'ily punished. They returned houghlily, that. all the country revv-
renced the great Climn-Chi-Thnnngu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal
would have (lured to ofikr violence. to his image but some Christian miscreants
----50 they called them, if. seems. and they therefore denounced wan- against.
him and all the Ruuians, who, they said, were miwrcmits and Christians.

The governor still patient, and unwilling to make 3 hr ' h, or to have any
cause of 'nr alleged to he given by him, the Czar luwiinr strictly charged him
to treat the conquered country with gentleness and civility, gave them Still all
the good words he could. At last, ho. told them there was a caravan gone
towards Russia that morning, and perhaps ii. was some of them who had dour
them this injury; and that, if they would be sntxslied with that, he would send

PS77

,..M'Iu'_r;--2.-:wK

1'

 

s

' _,- "fits-gnaw .' _, . -. . L,>> m-snfiaeWa-am"

 

 

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON C'RUSOl-f.

__.___________--___..--_--.____.--------------------------

after them, to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a, little; and
accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us it particular account how
the thing was, intimating 'wilhnl, that if any in our caravan hnd done it, they
should make their escape; but that, whether they had done it. or no, we should
nmko all the haste forward that was possible; and that in the meantime, he
would keep them in play as long as he could. '

This was very friendly in the governor. However, when it come to the
caravan, thoro was nobody knew any thing of tho matter; and, as for "s that
were guilty, We were the least of all suspected; none so much as asked us the
question; however, the captain of the caravan, For the time, took the. hint that
the governor gave us, and W}: mnrch'cd or travelled two days and two nights
without .any cousiderahla stop, and then we loy at :1 Village called Plothus;
nor did we make any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jm'nwemt:
another of the Czar ol' Muscovy's colonies, and where we cxyccted we should
be safe; but it is 'to he observed, that here wo hogan, for two or three cluys'
march, to enter upon a vast nameless desert, of which ] shall say more in its
place; and which, if we had now been upon it, it is more than) probable we lmd
been all destroyed. It was the second day's nmrch from I'lothns, that, by the
clouds ofdust behind us at a grout distance, some of our people begun to he
sensible we wore pursued; we had entered the desert, and had passed by :1
great lake, called Schanlcs Osier, when we perooivod a very great hotly of
horse u-pyeur on the other side of tho lake to the north, we travelling wast.
We observed they went away west, aswe (lid ; but had supposed we should have
taken that side ol'lhc lako,:u'liorons we veryhuppily took the south side; and in
two days more we saw them not, for they, believing we were slill before them,
pushed on,t.ill they came to the river Udda: tllis'is a very great river when it
passes farther north, but when we came to it, we found it narrow and fordnble.

- The third day they either found their mistake, or had intelligence ('1' "in and
name pouring in upon us, low-ards tho dusk of the evening. We had, to our
great satisfaction, just pitched upon a place l'or'our camp, which was vcry con-
venient. for the night; for as wc were upon a desert, though but at the begin-
ning of it, that was about five hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge
at, and, indeed, expected none but the city of J arnwona, which we had yet two
days' march to; the desert, however, had some few woods in it on this side,
and little rivers, which mu all into the great river Uddo. It was in a narrow
strait, hot-ween two small but. very thick woods, that we pitched our little czunp
for that night, expecting to he attacked in the night.

N ohod y knew but ourselves what wc wore pursued for 5 but as it was usual
for the Mogul Tartan-s to go about in troops in thnt desert, so the caravans
always fortify themselves every night against them as against armies of rah--
lzcrs; and it was therefore no new thing,r to he pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a. most advantageous
czunp; for we lay between two woods, with a little rirulet running just before
our front, so that we could not be surrounded or attacked any way but in our

418

   

,A/

"45:;

s f/,.

h
a":ADVENTUlLl-IS or 11013111503 0111-1101;.
front 01' reur: we took care also to make our front as strong 35'; we could, by
placing our packs, with our camels and horses, all in 9. line on the side of the
river, and we felled some trees in our rear.

in this yosturc we encamped for the night; but thc'cncmy was upon us
before we had finished our situation: they did not come on us like thieves, as
we averted, but sent three messengers to us, to domuud the men to he
delivcrcd to them that had abused their priests, and burnt. their god Chum-Chi-
Thauugu, that they might- hurn them with lire; and, upon this, they said, they
would go away, and do us no farther harm, otherwise they would hurn us all
with lira. Our 1111111 looked very hlsmk at this message, and hogan to sture :1:
one another, to see who looked with 11105: guilt in their faces: but nobody was
the word, nobody did it. The lender ol' the caravan sent word, he was well
assured it was not done lay any of our camp; that we were pcucoahlo 111011-
chnnts, travelling .011 our business; thut we had done no harm to them, or in
any one also; and therefore they must look farther for their enemies, who had
injured them, for we were not the people; so desired them not to disturb us,
for if they (lid, we should defend ourselves. ,

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer, and :1 great crowd
of them come down it! the 11101'11ing, by break 'of day, to 0111' camp; hut: seeing
us in such 1111 udrmugeaus situation, they durs-t come no further than the
brook in our front, where they stood, and showed us such 11 number, as, indeed,
{terrified us very much; for those that spoke least (11' them, spoke ul' 11-11
thousand. Here they stood,1md looked at us awhile; and then, setting; up :1
great howl, they let. fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were well enough
furliiicd for that, for we were sheltered under our hug-gage, and I do no:
remember that one man of 11s was hurt.

Some time after this we saw them more :1 little to our right, and expected
them on (1111' war when :1 cunning fellow, a Cossack. us they call them, of J:11':1~
won, in the p.1y of the Muscovilcs, calling to the leader of H10. carnv 1111, said to
ln'm, " I will send all these people aw 11y to Sihoilkax' 'l'his was :1 city four or
five claw-1' jourmrg,v at. least to- the south, and rather behind us. So he takes his
bow and arrows, m1d,getting,; on 1101 'clmcli, he rides away PS10111 our rcnr
di1cctly, 115 it wer,e hack to Ne1t2-iml after this, he takes a great circuit
about, and comes to the army of the T11 .113, as ii he had been sent. express to
tell them a long story, tlmt the people who had inunt their Glmm-Chi-'l'hnungu
were gone to Siheilha. wilh a (-111 111-111 of miscreants, as in. called them, that 19
to saw, Ghr-islians , and {hat they were resolved. to burn the god Scnl Ism'g,
belonging to the Tonguscs.

A: this fellow was :1. more Tartar, and perfectlv spoke l-h oir language, he
countmfeited so well. that they all look it from him, 11ml a." 11V their drove, 1n :1
most violent hur1v,to Sibcilkn, which, it seems, was live (lnys' iournev lo the
south, a11rl,in less "than thme l1onrs,they were entirely out of our siuht, and
we never hamd any more of them, nor ever know whether they went to that

other place called Sibeillm or 110._ V ..-omes>'s~r;i.

 

ADVENTL'JLES or ROBINSON crimson.

So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there was a garrison
of Muacovites; and there we rest/ed five days, the caravan being ox'cccdingly
fatigued with the last day's march, and with want of rest in the night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which hold us three-ond-twenty
days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here, for the better
accommodating ourselves in the night ; and the leader of the caravan procured
sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the country, for carrying our waster and
provisions; and these carriages were our dol'enco every night round om little

V - comp: so that had the Tartar; appeared, unless they had how very numerous

indeed, they wordd not have been able to hurt us.

We may well he supposed to want re lb>> again after this long journey, for in
this desert we saw neither house nor tree, nor source :1. bush; rm saw, indeed,
ehnndzmce of the sablmhunlcrs, as they call them. These are all Tutors, of
the Mogul 'l'm-tery, of which this country is a part, and they frequently attach
smnll caravans; but we saw no numbers of them together. I was curious to
see the sable-skins they calcined rhnl: I could nm'or speak with any of them,
for they dnrst not come near us; neither durst his struggle from our company
to go near them.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well
inhabited; that: is to soy,wc found towns rind castles settled by the Gmr of
Mnscovy, with gurriaons ol' stationary soldiers to prolect the caravans, and
defend the country against the Turtars, who would otherwise make it very
dangerous travelling; and his. oznrish majesty has given such strict order>> for
the well guarding the czuaums and _nmrohonls, that if there are unv Turmis
heard of in the country, detachments of the garrison are always sent to see
travellers sure from station lo station.

And thus the governor of Adinslioy, whom I had an opportunity to make
a vigil; w, by meant; of the Scots merchant, who wns acquainted with him,
oti'crcd us in guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the
next, station.

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe, we should
find the country better peopled, and the ncoplc more civilised; but Ifound
myself mistaken in both, for we had yell tho nation of the Tongusos in puss
through, where we saw the some tokens of paganism and harhurity, or worse
than before, only, as they warn conquered by the Museovites, and entirely
reduced, they were not so dangerous; but for the rudeness ol' manners,
idolatry, 11nd polytheism, no people in the world ever went beyond them.
They are clothed all in skins oi" beasts, and their houses are built of the. same.
You know not a man from .u woman, neither by the ruggedness or their
countenance; nor their clothes: and in the winter, when the ground is covered
with snow, fhev live under ground, in lwuaes like vaults, which have cavities,
or caves, going from one to another.'

If the Terrors. had their Chain-Chi--Thnungu for a whole village, or con n try,
these had idols in every hut and every cave; besides, they worship the slurs,

480

~~n- " W <<rabid , ., 7tho mm, the water, the snow--and, in a word, everything that they do not
understand, and they understand but. very little~so that almost every element,
every uncnmmou tlxing, set: them n-sncrificing.

But l mu no more to describe people llmn countries, any further than my
own story comes to be concerned in them. I mnt will; nothing peculiar to

 

myself in (x11 this country, which I reckon was, l'mm the (loserl. which-l spoke
of last, at leaSL four hundred. miles, lmli'. of it bemg another desert, wluch tank
115 up twelve days' severe travelling, willymxt house, tree, or buih; but we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. After
we were on; of this desert, and had travelled two days, wo came to Jonesny, e
Muacovito .eity or 'slalion, 'on the 'great rix'er'Jmlesay. This river, they told
us, period Enropo from Asin, though our mop-makers, as 1on1 told, do not
agree to it; bower ', it is certainly the eastern boundary offlio ancient
Siberia, which now makes a province only of the vast ancovite empire, but
is itself equal in bigness to the whole empire of Germany

And yethere '1 observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Muscovito garrisons. All the country between the river 0b}: and the
river Jnncsay is as enlirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the rcmolest
ol' the 'l'nrtars; may, as any nation, for ought I know, in Asia or America. I
also found, which I observed to 'the Museovito governors whom I had oppor-
tunity to converse wiih, that. the pagans are "not much the wiser, or the nearer
Christianity, for being under the M Si'oviie government: which they nclmolv-
ledged was true enough; but, they said, it was none of their business; that if
the Czar exneeted to convert. his Siberian, or 'l'ongncse, or Tartar srrljecls, ir.
should be (lone by sending clergymenamong them, not soldiers; and they
' added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it, was not so much
the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians, as it was to make.
them subjects. ' . - '

From thin river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild uncultivated
country; I cannot. say it is n barbarous aoil; it is only barren of people, mid
\vnms good management; otherwise it is in itself a most pleasant, i'ruitl'ul, and
agreeable country. What inhabitanls we found in it are all pagans, except
such as are sent among them from Russia; for thi is the country, I mean on
both sides the river Oby, whither the Muscorite cruninalo that are not put in
death, nre banished, and from whence it is next to impossible they should over
('Olllc awfl-F.

I have nothing material to say of my partipnlar affairs, till i came lo
Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, where I continued some time on the following,
OCCflSiOD :--

Wo had been now almost serenmonths on our journey, and winter began
to come on ops-nae; whereupon my partner and i called A connril about our
particular ailhira, in which we found it proper, considering that we were bound
for Enginnd, and not for Moscow, 10 consider how to dispose of ourselves.
They told us of sledges and rein--deer to carry us over the snow in the wininr
time: and, indeed, they have such things as it would be incredible lo rolnzq
the particulars of, by which means the Russians travel more in the winter than
they can in summer; because in these sledges they are able to run night and
day: ihc snow being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the
hillu, the voles, the rivers, the lakes, are all smooth and hard as a stone; and
they run upon the surface, without (my regnrd to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; Ivms
bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways~cither I must
go on as the caravan went, till I cume Ito Jarialaw, and then go ofi' west for

 

   

*Jfl

3.4; w

54

  

on
_ _ '_ . ,_
Norm, and the Gulf of Finland, and so either by sea. or land to Dannie, where
I might possibly sell my Cliinalcargo to good advantage; or I must leave the
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence 1 had but six days by
water to Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping, either to
England, Holland, or Hmnhurgh.

Now, to go any- of these journeys in the wintor,'woul<l have been preposte-
l'OUS; for, 35 '0 Dautzic, the Baltic would be frozen up, and i could not. got.
passage; and to go by land in those countries; would be for loss sol-i: than
among the Mogul antm-s; likewise to Archangel, in October all the ships
would be gone from thencmnud even the merchants, who dwell there in suin-
nxer, retire south lo Moscow in the winter, when the ships are one; so thut
i should have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a. scarcity of
provisions, and must lie there in an oinpry town all the winter: so that, upon
the whole, I thought it much my better way to lot the caravan go, and to
make provision to winter where I was, namely, at 'l'ohulahi, in Siberia, in the
latitude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold
winter with,.nnmcly, plenty of provisions, such as the country nti'ordcd, it warm
house, with fuel enough, and excellent company; of all which I slmll give :1
full account in its plucc.

I was now in a quite ditierent climate From my beloved island, where]
never felt cold, except when I had my ugne: on the contrary, I had much If)
do to hem: my clothes on my back, and never made any fire but, without: doom,
for my necessity, in dressing my food, <<he. Now I made my three good rest:
with large robes, or gowns, over them, to hang down to the feet, and button
close to the wrists, and all these Lined with furs 'to nnzko them sufficiently
"'fll'm- '

As to a. warm house, I must confess, I greatly dislike our way in England,
of making tires in ovary room in l: 9. house, in upon chimneys, which, when tho
fire was out, always kept the air in the room as cold as the climate. But
taking an apartment in 9. good house in the town, I ordoml n rhimno to he
huilt. like a. furnace, in the centre ol'six sovcml rooms, like a stove; ll; nun-l
to curry the smoke went up one waif, the floor Lo conic ut the fire want in
soother, and all tho rooms were kept equally warm, but; no fire seen ; like as
the).r heat the hztgnios in England.

By this means we had always the same climate in all the rooms, and on
equal heatwns preserved _: and how cold soevm- it. was without, it w 'xlwuyx
warm within; and yet: we saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded will: any
smoke.

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it, should be possible to meet with
good company here in at. country so barbarous in; that of. the must- northorl):
port of Europe, ncnr the Frozen Ocean, and within hut a. very few degrees 0:
Nova Zemblu. '

But this being the country where the state criminals of Muscovy, us I
observed before, are all banished, this city was full of nohlomen, princes,

4 83
 

gentlemen, ooloncls, and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry, soldiery,
and courtiers ol' Mnsmvy; here were the famous prince Gallifken, or szlofi'keu,
and his 11011, the old General Rohostishy, 11nd sgreral other persons of note, and
some ladies.

By means of my Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless, I parted with here,
I made 1111 acquaintance with several of these gentlemen, and some of them of
the first rank: and from these, in the long winter nights in. which I staid here,
1receivedseveralagreenble visits. It was talking one night with 11 certain
prince, dun of the banished minislcrs of state belonging to the Czar of Muscm'y,'
that. m 3' talk of my partiuular case began. He had been telling me abundance
111" fine things, of the greatness, the magnificence, 11nd dominions, and the
absolute power, of the Emperor of the Russians. I interrupted him, and told
him, that I 11-11:; :1, greater and more powerful prince than ever the Czar nl'
Muscory was, though 111;.- (lo111inions were not. so large, or my people .53 many.
The Russian grandee looked :1, little s1u'p1'isell, and, fixing his eyes steadily
upon me, began 1.11 wonder what I meant.

I told him his wonder would cease when l hadnxplained myself. First, I
11>ch him, I had 1.1m nbsolute diaposal of the lives and fortunes of all 1ny-sx1hjecl's:
that. 110t11'ithstunding my absolute power, 1 111111110: one person disaffected to my
government, or to my person, in all my dominions. II: shook his head In
that, zunl said, there, indeed, I (undid the Czar ol' Muscovy. I told him, tlml.
all the lands in my I..1'11g<luu1 were in} own, and it" my subjects were not only
my tenants, but tenants at will; that they would all light for me to the last
drop; and that nescr tvumt, for such I acknowledged myself to be, was (1161'
1111 univeras .lly helm ed. and )1: ' so horribly feared, by c:his subiecls.

Aflci nmnsing 1310.111 with these riddles in govemment for a while, 1 11101104
the case, and told them the story a: large of my living' 111 the island, and how 1
managed both myself and the people (hm: that new under 11111,th us I haw
uluce minmed if. down. They were exceedinirly (11' en with .thc story, and
espccmlly the prince, who told me \11th a si':h,tl111SS the 11110 greatness of life
was to he 111111181 of ourselveswthat he would not lune clinugcd sucl1_11 stale of
lil'u as mine, to have been Cznr 11f Mnscnvy; and that he found were felicity in
the retirement he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he foundtin the
highest authority he enjoyed in the court. ol' his master the Czar: that. the
height of human willdam was to bring our tempen; down to ourci1'cun1sbinccs,
and to make 11 calm within 111' :der the weight of the greatest SCOPE) nit-huut
When he cane firzs hither, he said, he used to tear thcb hair from his head, and
the elm-hes from his back, as others had done before him , but 11. lilllc time and
consideration had made him look into himself, 1111 well as round himself, to
things without; that he found the mind of 1111111, if it was but once bought to
mile-cl: upon the slate of 11ui1-e1s11l life, and how little this \vmld we 5 concerned
in its true felicity, was perfectlv capable of 1111111111.; 51 fulicity lor itself, fully
satisfying to itself. and suitable. to its own best ends and desires, with but 1111' 1'
little assistance from the world' that air to breathe in, food to sustain life,
cloth: for warmth, and liberty for exercise, in order to health, completed, in
his opinion, all that the world could do for us: and though the greatness, the
authority, the riches, and the 1wlc'asures, which some enjoyed in the world, and
which he had 'snjoyed his slm'c of, had much in them that was agreeable to
us, yet, he! observed that all those things chiefly gratified the cuarsest of our
afi'ectiuns ; such as our ambition, our particular' pride, our avarice, our vanity,
and our sensuality; all which were, indeed, the. men) product of the worse
part of man, were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all
manner of crimes; but neither were. related to, or concerned with, any of le5c
\ irlucs that constituted us wise men, 01' of those graces which distinguished us
as Christians: that he" 0 now deprived of all the fancied feliciqr which he
enjoyed in the full exercise of all those Vices, lr: said, he was at leisure to look

"P0" "1'! dark side of then), where. he found all mnnncrof deformity" and was
now convinced, that virtue only makes a 1mm truly Win rich and grunt, and
prcsm'vm him in him way In n superior happiness in a. futnrn state; in this,
he. will, they were more happy In their hamislnnent, than all their murmur.>>
were, who had the full possession of all the wealth and power 1.lmtthey(tlc
banished) had left behind them. . ' . . '
"Nor, sir," said he, " do I brhig my mind to this politically, lny the worms")f
cf my cirmnns'lances, which some call niiscrahllt; but if I know nn)y tllglgfll
myself, I would not go back, no, not though my mutcr, Lin: (mu, 5 mu in
mi:. and offer to reinstate me in all my former grandeur--4 say, I would no
more go back In it, than I believe my soul, when it shall he (lahvcredlii'ngn
this prison of the body, and has had a (axle of the glorious skate hoyon 1e,

4:45.. 3%?

 
 

ADVENTURES OF llOlHNSON CRUSOW-

   
 

 

 

would. come hatch to the gaol of flesh and blood it. is now enclosed in, and leave
heaven to deal in the dirt and grime of human ail'uirs."

He spoke. this with so much warmth in 'his temper, so much earimhlefis
and motion of his spirits, which were apparent in his countenance, that it was _
-c-ri<lout it. moi tho true sense ol' his soul: and, indeed, there was no room to . -.
doubt. his sincerity: ' i),

I told him, I once thought myself a. hind oi' mourn-ch in my old station, of it
which I had given him an flGGORI)i-, but. that i thought he was not a monarch '~
Gill)", but a, great conqueror: for he that has got. a victory over his own __
exorbitant. desires, and has the absolute dominion over himself, and whose e
reason entirely governs his will, is. certniuljv greater than he that conquers a. '1;

 

city. " But my lord," said i, " shall i talic the liberty to ask you a question 3"
-~" With all my heart," said he.----."IF the door of your libel'ty'was opened,"
said I, " would not you take hold of it to deliver yourself from this (exile ?"
"Hold ! " said he, " your question is subtle, and requires some usurious just
distinctions to give it a. sincere answer; and I'll give it you flow the bottom of ,
my heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would move me to deliver 1'
myself from the state of banishment, except these two: first, the enjoyment '
of my relations; and, secondly, a little warmer climate,>> But I protest. to you
that to go back to the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the luu'ry 05' n :-
minister of state; the wealth, the gaicty, and the pleasures, that is to say, '
follies of a courticr; if my master should send me word this moment, that he i
restores me to all he banished me from, I protest, if I know myself at all, 1
would not: leave this wilderness, these deserts, and these frozen hikes, for lhl':
Induce of Moscow." '
"But, my lord," said. I, "perhaps you not only are hanished from the
pleasures of the court; and from the power, and. authority, and. wealth, you
enjoyed hei'ore,hut you may be absent too from some ol' the conveniences of .
Ilife; your estate, perhaps, confiscated, and your efi'ects plundered; and tho) ' -
supplies left you here may not he suitable toil": ordinary demands of life." '
" Ay," said he, " that is, as you suppose mo in he a. lorzl, or a prince, (ix.
So indeed I zun; but you are now to consider me only as u. mun, a. human
creature, not at all distinguished from another; and. so I can enfi'er no wantJ
unless I should be visited with sickness and 'clistcmpcrs. Howcvc ' to pm. the
question out ol' dispute: you see our manner--we are in this place live persons
or rank--we live perfectly retired, as suited to a slate of banishment--we have >
smoothing resented from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from
the more necessity-of limiting for our food ; but the poor soldiers, who ure'here
9'.- u-irhoul. help, livo in as much plenty as we. They go into the woods, imd
a} catch gables and foxes ; the labour of a. month will maintain them a year; and
{ no the way of livin; is not. expensive, so it is not hard to got. sufficient. to
ourselves: so that objection is out of doors."
I have no room to giro a, Full account of the most agreeable conversation I
had with this trulgr great man ; in all which he showed, that his mind was so

486
inspired \riih a, superior knowledge of things, so supported by religion, as well
as by a first share of wisdom, that his contempl' 06 the world was rea y as much
as he had expresu'ed, and that he was always the same to the last, as Wm
appear in the story I am going to tell.

I had been here eight months, and a. dark dreadful winter I thought- ih to
be. 'l'he cold was so intense, that I could not so much us look abroad-without
being \rrapt in furs, and a mask of fur before my face, or rather a hood, with
only a hole for breath, and two for sight. The liitle day-light we had, was,
as we reckoned, for three months, not above five hours a day, or six at most:
only that snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather being clear,
if. was never quite dark; Our horses were kept (or l'flillel' starved) under
ground, and as for on): normal: (for we: hired servants here to look after our
horses and ourselves), we had every now and then their fingers and tees to
thaw, and ialm core of, leet they should mortif'y nnd fall 03'.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the hous'es being close, the walls
thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was chiefly the
flesh of door, dried and cured in the season; good broad. enough, but. baked as
biscuits ; dried lish of several sorts, and some flesh of anton, and of buffaloes,
which is pretty good beef. All the stores of provision for the winter are laid
up in the summer, and well cured. Our drink was water mixed with uqunvim
instend of brandy; and, for n treat, mead, inst-cad of wine, which, however,
they have very good. The hunters, who ventured. abroad all weathers,
frequently brought- us in. fresh venison, very fnt and good, and sometimes bonr's
flesh, but we did- not much care for the last. We had a good stock of lee, with
which we treated our friends as above; and, in a word, we lived very chew
full}-~ and well, all things considered.

Itwas now March, unlit-he days grown considerably longer, and the weather
-nt leash (olerable; so other travellers hogan to prepare sledges to carry them
over the snow, and to get things ready to be going; but my measures being
listed, as I have. said, for Archangel, and not for Muscory or the Baltic, I made
no motion, knowing very well that tho ahips from the south do not set. on! for
that: port of the world till May or June; and that if I was there at- the bog-in-
ning of August, it would be a's soon as on}; ships would be ready to go away;
and therefore, I say, I made no haste in be gone, as others did--in a word,
I saw a great many people, my, nll the travellers, go away before me. It
seems, every year they go from thence to Moscow for'trarle; namely, to
carry (hrs, and buy necessariea with them, which they bring back to furnish
their shopsz-olso others went on the some errand to Archangel; bu: ihen,
they also, being to come back again about eight hundred miles, went all out
before me. ' .

In short, about the latter end'of May I begun to make all really to pack up;
and as~I was doing this, it occurred to me; that seeing all tlloso people were
bnnishod 'hy the Czar ol' Mnscovy to "Sibsrin, nnd yet, when they come there,

>> wm'c at liberty, to go whither they would, why did they not then go away toany part of the world wherever they thought fit? and I began to examine what
should hinder them from making such an attempt."

But my wonder was over, when I entered upon that subject with the person
I have mentioned, who answered me thus: " Consider; first," said he, " the
place where 'we are: and, secondly, the condition we are in; especially," said
he, " the generality of people who are banished hither. We me suuoumle-l
with stronger things than bars and bolts: on the north side 15 an unnnviguhle
ocean, where ship never soiled, and boot never swam , neither, if we had both,
could we know whithert to go wilh them. Every other way," said he, " no
have above 11 thousand miles to piiss through the Gzor's own dominions, and
by ways utterly impassable, except by the roads made by the goveuunent, and
through the towns gm'risoned by its troops; so that-we could neither pass
undiscox ered by the road, nor subsist. any other rmy . so that it is in vain to
attempt it."

I was silenced, indeed, at once. and. found that: they new in a prison every
jot us secure as if they lnid been locked up in the castle of Moscow; howex or,
it came into my' thoughts, 111111: I might certainly be made an instrument. to
procure the escape of this most excellent person, and that it was vory easy For
me to carry him away, there being no gum-d over him in the country ; and :13
I "as not going 11; Moscow, hut. lo Arcl1s11gel,.1nd that I went. in the nature
of :1, caravan, in which I was not 0in 11 to lie in the siniiolmrv towns in
the desert, but could encamp even night where I would, we might cosils
pass uninterrupted to Archangel, Where I could immediately secure him on
board on English or Dutch ship, and carry him of? safe along wilh me; and as
to his subsistence, and other-particulmn, that should be. my care, till he should
better supply himself. >>

He. heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the while I
spoke-<<nay, I could see in his very fame that what I said put. his spiriis into
1111 exceeding ferment; his colour frequently clmngccl, his eyes looked red, and
his henrt fluttered,- that it might even he perceived in his countenance; nor
could he immediately answer me when I had done, and, us it were, expected
what he would sayto it;' and after he lmd paused a. little, lm ombrucmi use,
and said, " I-Iow unhoppy are we, unguided creatures as we are, that even our
greatest acts of friendship are made snares to us, and we are made tcmptcrs
of one another! My dear' friem ," said he, " your offer is so sincere, has
such kindness in it, is so disinterested in itself, and is so calculated for my
advantage, that I must have very little knowledge of the world, if I did not
both wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation I have upon me to you for
it: but did you believe I was sincere in whot I have so often suid to you
of my contempt. oi'the xiv-.0111! " Did you believe I spoke my very soul to 3,0",
and that I had really maintnincd that degree of felicity hora, that had pint-ed
me above all'tlmt the world could give me, or do {'or me? Did you believe i
was sincere, when I told you I would not go back, if I was recalled even to be
all that once I was in the court, and with the favour of the Czar, my master?Did you believe me, my friend, to be an honest. man, or did you think mo to he *5 .

a boasting hypocrite?" Here he stopped, as if he wohld hear what I would
say; but, iudmzd, I soon alter perceived Ilmt he stopped because his spirits
were in motion; his heart was full of atrugglm, and he could not: go on.
I was, I confess, astonished at tho thing, as well a; at the man, and I- used
some arguments with him to urge him to set himsolt' free; that he ought to
look upon this as a door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a summons
by Providence, who has the care and good disposition of all events, to do
himself good, and to render himself useful in the world.

He had by this time recovered himself. " How do you know, sir," said he,
warmly, " but that, instead of a summons from Heaven, it may he a faint of
another instrument, representing, in all the alluring colours to me, the show
of felicity as'u deliverance, which may in itself he my snare, and tend directly
to my ruin? ' Here'I am free from the temptation ol' rcturning to my- l'ornu-r
miserable greatness; there I am not sure, but that all the seeds of pride,
ambition, avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in my nature, nuw revive
and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm me; and thou tho happy
prisoner, whom you see now master of his soulis liberty, shall 110 the miserable
slave of' his own senses, in the full possession of all personal liberty. Dear sir,
let me remain in this blessed Confinement, banished from the crimes of life,
rather than purchase a show of freedom at- thc expense. of 11,9 mm").- ot' my;
reason, and at the espouse of the future happiness which now I horn in m;-
vicw, but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of; for l mu but flesh, :1. man, a
mere man, have passions and affections as likely to possess and overthrow me
as any man: Oh, be not my friond and my tempter both togethcr ! "

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood silent, looking
at him: and, indoed, admired what I saw. The struggle in his soul was so
great, that,though tho weather was extremely cold, it. put him into n. most:
violent sweat, and I found he wantcd to give vent. to his mind: so I said a Word
or two, that I would leave him to consider of it, and wait- on him gain: and
then I withdrew to my own apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door of the room,
and _I was going to open the door; but he had opened it, and come. in. "My
dear friend," said he, " you had almost ovcrsot me, but I am recovered; do not
take it ill that I do not close with yourotfer; I assure you. it is not for want
of a sense of the kindness of it: in you: and I come to make the most sincere
acknowledgment of it to you; but, Lhope, I have got- the victory over
myself."

" My 10 ," said I, "I hope you are satisfied that you did not resist the call

of Heaven."--" Sir," suid he, "if it had been from Heaven, the name power _

 

cc,._..._
m
s.

7~ .4.-
would have influenced 1110 to accept it; but I hope, and am fully satisfied, 1:11:11.-
itis from Heaven that I decline it; and I. have an infinite satisfaction in the
11111111151, 11111131011 slmllllcnve me 11.11 honest man sn'll,thong11 not a fr so 1111111."

Ihsxi notMng to (lo bul to noquiesce, and make no profession to him of my
having no end 111 it but a siucozro desire to gene him. He 0111111 need me very
passionately, and nssnreb 111e, 1111 was sensible of that, and. should alwavs
acknowledge it: and with 1.11111. he offered me a. 1e1 y fine present of sables, too
much indeod for me to accent from n 1111111 in his circumstances , and I 1!: (mid
have avoided 1.11c1n,bnt he would 1101; he refused.

The next. morning I sent my servant to his 10111511111. with a small moment of
tea, 1.110 pieces of China. damaslt, and four liltlu wedges of Japan cold, which
did not 1111 .woigh above six ounces. or magnum, but. were {11151011101 1.111)
value of his 5111:1115, which, indeed, when I came to England, I found 1110111111911:
two hundred pounds. Ho 1111121111111 the tea, and. one piece of the damask, and
one of the piecos of gold, which had a line stamp upon it, of the Japan coinage-
which I 121111111 he took for the rariiv of it, but would not take any more; and
sent 171ml by my servant. that he desired to speak with 1119.

W hen I come to him, he 1111111119,.1 know what 111111 passed between 115, 411111
hoped I would not movo him any more in that all'oir; but 1.,1111t since I made
inch :1 generous offer to him, ho askeii me, if I had kindness enough to oil'o-

'thu ammo to mot-1101* person that. he would. name to me, in whom lm 111111 :1 giant
shme of concern. I told him that I could not 521.11 I inclined to do so much
for any one but. himself, for whom I hurl :1 11111112111111- value, and should 11311-1
been glad to have boon the instrument. of his (lelivomnco; however. 1? he
17011ldpleasoto name the person to me, I would gi1e him my :11. swcr, and
honed he would not he displeased- with 11111, '11' ho was with my answer. He told
me it was his only son, who, though I 111111 not seen, 3101.qu in the sumo
omniition with himself, 111111 above two hundred miles from him, 011 1.110 01.11e1
side the 01131; 1111!; 1:11:11, if I consented, he would send fm him.

I mndo no hesitation, but. told him I would do if. I made some ceremony
in letting him nndm- 51111111 that it was wholly upon his account; and that, seeing
I could not prevail on him, I would show my respect. to 111111 by my concern 1'01-
his 111111, _bnt tlwse 111111519 21.10 tedious. to 101111111 here. He aent 111.111r the next
1151}? for his son, smd' 111 about twenty days he come bank with the 111csso11ge1'
bringing six or seven horses loaded with very "ch furs, and which, in the
whole,amo11nfzozl to :1. W13; 1:156:11. value.

His servants brought the horses into the town, 111111011 the young lord at- 11
1111111111110 till night, when he came incognizo into our apartment, 111111 his 111111131-
presented him to 1111:; Mini, in short, we conce1'tcrl_t-l1cro the manner of 0111'
travelling, and. every thing; proper for the journey.

I had bought 11 conuinlei'able quantity or gables, black fox skins, fine m--minos,
and 1111011 other furs 1.11111 are very rich--I say I had bought 11112111 in 1.11111. city,
in exchange for some of the goods broght from China; in particular, 1'01: the
cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the gl'catost part here, 111111 the rest after>>

~);"C/I.<<'m_1,EURkSSa_j7w'iw-
wards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could have done at London;
and my partner, who was sensible of the profit, and whose business, more
particularly than mine, was merchandise; was mightily pleased with our stay
on account 9f the trufiic we made here.

711; was in the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a ch51
believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it i350 far out of the road of
commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked of. We were now
come to a very small caravan, being only thirty-two horses and camels in all,
and all of them passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of eleven
of them. . It was most natural, also, that I should take more servants with me

Jim: I had before, and the young lord passed for my steward; what great man
I passed for myself I know not; neither dial it concern me to inquire. We had
here the worst. and the largest desert to page over that we met in all the
journey; indeed, I call it the worst, hecauee the way was very deep in some
places, and Very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that we
thought we had no troops of antan and robbers to fear, and that they never.
czmxe on this side the river Ohy, or at least but very seldom; but we found it
otherwise.

My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite servant, or rather a
Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquaintccl with the country, and who led
us by private roads, that we avoided coming into the principal towns and vi .
upon the great read, such as Tnmen, Sole): Kanmshoy, and several others;
because the Musmvilc garrison, which are kept there, 'axe very curiuus and
atrial. in their observation upon travellers, aml searching lest any of the
banished persons of note should make their scape that way into Musebvy :. but
by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole journey was a
desert, and we were obliged to cncamp and lie in our terms, when we might:
have had good accommodation in the cities on the my: this the young lot-Ll
was so sensible of, that he would not-allow us to lie abroad, when we came to
several cities on the way, but lay nhroul himself, with his servant, in the
woods, and. met as always at- t-he appointed. places.

We were just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which, in
these parts, is the houmlar ' hem-ecu Europe and Asia; and the first city on
the European side was called Soloy Kmnuskoym'hidi, is as much as to any, the
great city on the river Kama; and here Wcfilmt'gllt to have seen some evident
alteration in the people, their nmnners, their habits, their religion, and their
business; but we were niiatake'ng-for as we had a vast desert to pass, which
by relation is nexu- seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above two
handrail miles over where we passed it, 50, till we came past that horrible
place, we feuml' very little (li'll'ercncc between that country and the Mogul
Tartar-y; the people mostly pagans, and little better than the savages of
America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of living wholly
barbarous, except in the cities as above, and the villages near them, where they
are Christians, as they call themselves, of the Greek Church; but evexz these
have their. religion mingled with so many relies of snyerstition, that it is scarce .
to be known in some places from more sorcery and witchcraft, .

ln passing this forest, I thought indeed we must, after all our dangers were,
in our imagination, escaped, as before, have been plimdered, and robbnd,.and
perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves: of what country they wore, whether
the roving hands of the Ostiachi, a. kind of Tutors, or wild people on the banks
nl'tho Oby, had ranged thus far, or whether thoy were the sable-hunters of
Siberia, I am yet at a:loss'to know; but they were all on horseback, carried
bows and arrows, mid were-at first about fivevnnd-forl-y in number. They
come so near to us as within about two musket-shots; and, asking no questions,
they surrounded us with their horses, and looked very earnestly upon' us'ln'iuo.
At: length they placed themselves just in our way ; upon which we drew up in'
a little line before our camels, being not nh'ove sixteen men in all; and lacing
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent up the Siberian servant who attended his
lord, to see who they wore: his master was the more willing to let. him go,
because he was no: a, little apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent
out tiller him. The man came up near them with a flag of trues, and called lo
Jhem: hut though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects rather, he
Icould not understand a word they said; however, after some signs to him not
toeome nearer to them at his peril, so he said he understood them to mean,
offering to shoot at him if he advanced, the follow came back no wiser than he
went, only that by-their dress he said ho believed them to be some Tartan: ol'
Kalmuok, or of the Circnssinn hordes, and that there must be more of them on
the great desert, though he never heard that ever any of them were seen so
for north before. . '.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there was on
our left hand, at about a quarter of a xnile's distance, a little grove or clump of
trees, which stood close together, and very near the road; I immediately
resolved we should advance to those trees, and for'tify'onrselves as well as we
could there: for, first, I considered that the trees would. in a great measure
cover as from their arrows ; and, in the next place, they could not come to
charge us in a. body; it was, indeed, my old Portnguesc pilot who proposed it,
and who had this ox'tsollonc'}r attending him, namely, that he was always
readies: and most apt-todirect and encourage us in cases of tho most-danger.
We advanced immedinwlj with what speed we could, and gained that little
wood, the 'l'artars, or thieves, for we know not what to call them, keeping their
stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When no coma thither, we found, to
our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy spring} piece of ground, and, on
the other side, it great spring of water, which, running out in a little rill or
break, was a little farther joined by moi-her of the like bigness; and was, in
short, the head or source of n considerable river, coiled afterwards tho Wirlshzn
The trees which grew about this spring were not in all above two. hundred,
but were very large, and stood pretty thick; so that, as svon as "'0 gob ll); "'0
felt perfectly safe from the enemy, unless they aliglnod and attacked us on foot.
But go make this more difiionlt, our Portuguese, with indefatigable applica-
tion, cut down great arms of the trees, and laid them hanging not quite cut oil',
from one to another; so filial: he made a continued fence almost round us.

We staid here, waiting the motion of-the enemy some hours, without
perceiving they mado'nnyofi'er to stir; when, about two hours before night,
they came down directly upon us; and, though we had not liorccivcd it, we
found they had been joined by some more ol' the some, so that. they were near
l'onrscore horse, wimrcol',hqwever, we fancied some were women. They came
on till they were within half. I; shm'. of our little wood, when we fired one
musket without bail, and called to them, in the Ruaian tongue, to know what
they wanted, and bid them keep off; but, sis if they knew nothing of what we
raid, they came on with a double {in-y directly-up to the wood. side, not
imagining we were so barricaded. that- they could nothrenk in. Our old pilot
who our contain on well as he had been our engineer; and desired us not to
fire upon them till they came within pistol shot, that we might be sure to kill;
and that, when we did fire, we should be sure to take good aim. We bade
him give the word of commandhwliich he delayed no long that they wore, some
of them, within two pikes' length of us when we fired.

"is aimed so true, or Providence directed earshot so sure, that we killed
fourteen of them at the firstyollefiland wounded several others, as also several
of their horses; for welmd all of us louded our pieces with two or three bnllcis
a-piece at least. __ , . '

They were terribly surprised \ 'ith our fire, and retreated immediately about,
one hundred rods from us; indvhich time we loaded our pieces main, "ml
seeing them keep that distance, we sallicd our, and caught four or five of their
horsesnvhosc riders, \vcvsnpposed,'wera killed; and, coming up to the (load,
we could easily perceive they we're Tartars, but knew not l'rom what country,
or how they came in make an excursion such an unusual length.

About an hour after, they made a mofiion to attack us again, and rode
round our little wond,_to see where else theyvniighi break in; but finding ns
always ready to lhco them, they went oii' again, 'nml we resolved not to stir
from ihe place for that night. ' . _ . '

We slopt little, you maybe sure, lint spent the most part of the night")
strengthening our situation, and burricading the cntmncesvinm thunood; and:
heaping a. sirict watch, we waited for daylight, and when it came, it gave us a
very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the enamy, who wo thought were
discouraged with the reception they had met with, were now increased (0 no
lesnythan three hundred, and had. set up eleven or rwelvo huts and. tents as it
they were resolved to heniego us; and this little camp they had pitclntd was
upon the open plain, at about three quarters of a mile from "5.. We were.
indeed surprised at this discovery; and now, i confess, '1. gave myself over (or
lost, and all that 1 had. The loss of my oli'bcis' did not .118 so near me (though
they were very considerable) an the thoughts of falling into the hands of such
barbarians, at the latter and of my_jonnie_v,h ni'ier so many difficulties and

498hazards as I had 'gouu through; nil'd even in sight of our port, where we.
mama safety and deliverance. A5 for my partner, be was raging; he
dceku-ed,thnt go'lose his gooas'wonld be. his rain; and he would rather die
limu he starred: and' lie was for lighting to the last drop.

The- young lord, as gallnmz' as ever final: slioured'itsolf', was for fighting in
the lost. also; and my old pilot was of the opinion we were able to resis: them
all, in the situation'we then were iu-and thus we spent the day in debates of
what we should do; but. towards evening, we found that the number of our
enemies still inci'euoed: perhaps, as file};- were abroad in several {forties for
prey, the first had sent out. scents in call for help and to acquaint them of their -
booty--<<ma we did not know but ' by the morning they might; still be agrenmr
number; 20 I began to inquire of those peeple we had brought from 'l'nbolski,
if More were no other, or more private ways, by which we might, avoid them
in the night, and perhaps either retreat to some town, or gee help to guard us
over the desert. . . '

The Siberian, who was servant; to the young lad, fold' usi, if we designed to
Moidthcm, and not fight; he would engage to carry us off in the night :0 a
way that went. north towards the river Petraz, by which he made my doubt but
we might get away, and the 'l'srcars never be wiser; but;J he said, his lord had
told Mar Inn would not. return, but would rather choose to light. I told him,
in>> misiook his lord, for: that he was too Wise a man to lore fighting for um
sake of it; that- I knew his lord was brave enough by what he had allowed
uh'nsdy; hut- tlmt his lord, knew better than to desire to have seventeen or
nighteen men fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable nmcssity forced them
to it; and that, if he thought it possible for us to escape in the night,-wc lm'd
non-hing else'to do but to attempt it. He answered, if his lord gave him such
onlcr, he would lose his life if hcdid not perform it. We soon brought his '
lard to give that order, though privately, and we immediately prepared for
the putting it in practice. ' .

And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a, fire in our little
camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it burn nll night,
that the Tar-tars might. conclude we were still there; but as soon as it- was
dark, that is to say, so as we were able to see the slm's (for our guide would
not stir before), having all our horses end camels ready loaded, we followed
our new guide, who, I soon ibund, steered himself by the pole, or north star,
all :he country being level for n long way. '

After we had travelled No hours very hard,'i1c began to be lighter still;
not: that ii. was quite dark all night, but the moon began to rise; so that, in
short, it was miller lighter than we wished it to be: but ivy-six o'clock next
morning, we were. gotten near 'l'orty miles, though the truth is, we almost
sgwoiled our horses. Here we fimnd a Russian village, named Kirumzhiskoy,
where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuek Tm'tau's that day. About
two hours before night we set: out again, and travelled hill eight the next
morning, though not quite so hastily as before: and about seven o'clock we----------------------------_~_
passed a. little river, called Kirlm, and more to a good large town inhabited by

Russians, and very populous, called Ozmuys. There we heard that several '

troops or herds of KAhnnc-ka had been nln'nnd upon the desert, but that. we
worn now completely out. of danger of. them, which WA: to our great satis-
faction, yon may he mare. Here we were obliged to get; some fresh horses;
and having need of rest, we staid five (laws; and my partner and I agreed to
give the honest Siberian who brought us hither, the'valne of ten pismlca for
his conducting us.

In five days more we came to Veiissima, npon the river Witwgda, which
running into the river Dwina, we were there very happily near the end of our
travels by loud; that river being navigable in seven daysflmssago to Archangel.
From hence we came in Lawrenskoy, where the river joins, the third of July;
and provided onrselvw with-two luggage-boats, "and a barge, fol-our con-
venience. We embarked the seventh, and arrived all nafu m. Archangel the
eighteenth, having been a year, five months, and three days on the jammy,
including our stay of eight months and odd days at Toholslti.

W (2 were obliged to slay nt'lhis place six weeks for the arrival of the nbips,
and must have tm'ried longer had not (i Hmnhurgher come in above a monlli
sooner than any of the English ships; when, after some consideration, fling
the city of Hamburg}: might. happen to be as good zL market for our goods as
London, we all fool: freight- wilh him; and having put our goods on board, it

, ' ' was mosl; natural for me to put my simvmd on board In lake cure of them; by

which means my young lord had :i sufiicient 'oppoi'tunity to conceal himself,
never coming on shore again all the time we staid there; and this he did, that,
he might not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow merchants won]
certainly have seen and discovered him. ' '

- We sailed from Arclmngelon the twentieth of August the some yenr, mid,

after no extraordinary 'biMl. voyage, arrived in the Elbe the thirteenth of' I

September. Here my partner and I {amid a very good sale for our goods, as
well those ol' China, as the sables, _&c., of Siberia, and, dividing the produce
of our effects, my share amounicd to three thousand four hundred and seventy-
five nonnds, seventeen shillings and tlireepence, nohvithstanding so many
losses we had sustained, and charges we had been in; only remembering that
I had included in this about six hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I
had purchased at Bengal. .

Here the young lord tool: his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in order to
go to the court of Vienna, where he. resolved to seek proteciion, and where he
could correspond with those of his flit-hark friends who were left <<live. He. did
not part- without; all the lescimonie>> he could give, of gratitude for the service I
had done him, and his sense of my kindness to tlie'priuce his father.

To ennolncle: having staid near four months in Hnmhurgh, I came from
thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in the pocket, and arrived in
London the lentil of January, 1706, having been gone from England ten years
and nine months. 'wofiu'czmhwwwmm . I ' 'fizfihwfe'za

    

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRIISOE.

 

6147"-- 1";
we

An}! hem, resolving to harass myself no more, I am preparing for a long"
journey than all these, having lived seventy-two years :1 life uf infinite variety,
and learnt snfl'icimjfly to know the value of retirement, and the Musing of
ending our (lays in peace. '

\wwefi'fi

      

TIIR {NIL

L

.-_..?>'i-.!

%
<<"71"

1;...

ct:

KELLY 5: 60.; me'ms,
0m 30mm". mum-1'. Sm culmm's, Smash, m:

X218

@913
:5?"
i

.1?'_-""Z~'-'-7: wfiia'wimm a...>> _..-.v w - muwzmrw. '5? " _