PRICE FIVE CENTS EACH-WAS B

gained a handsome fortune by honest trade, gave mea good
zducation, and when I grew old enough, wished me [.0 devote my-
self to some profession, but my mind was set on a sea-faring life; and
at length, having run away from home, I set sail in a ship bound for
London. But after many perils, our ship was wrecked in the Yar-.
mouth Roads.

I then travelled on foot to London, where I met with a Guinea
trader, whom I agreed to join in his speculations and voyages. At
first, we were'very successful ; but in my second expedition we were
chased by a Moorish rover, captured. and taken prisonerslto Sallee.Hence, howevenl managed to escape in a fishing-boat, and was happy
enough to hail a Portugesc vessel, whose captain kindly took me in.

l was, however, soon persuaded to make another voyage to the
African coast, in search of negroes. Another shipwreck was, alas!
to be my lot: a violent hurricane arose, the ship struck on a rock, and
throwing a boat over the ship's side, the crew got into her, hoping to
escape. But the rolling waves soon overturned the boat, and WP
were all separated in the sea: as for me, I was carried by a wave to-
wards the shore, and at length, left upon the land, more dead than
alive. When I recovered, I found myself quite alone, on what ap-

peared to be a desert island; a sense of loneliness, mingled with
8Q

gratitude for my preservation, came over me, and kneeling down,l
thanked God for His mercy in saving my life, and implored Ilim to
help and support me for the time to come; then I set myself with all
due diligence to secure all I could for my comfort and safety. Being
almOst consumed by intense thirst, I first went in search of some
water; I then climbed up into a tree, where I slept soundly until
morning. 0n awaking, I saw that the tide had so far gone down as
to let me come within a quarter ofa mile of the ship; so being a good
swimmer, and anxious to possess myself of all the useful articles]
could, I swam to the vessel, and got into her. I was thankful to find
the provisions were dry; and being very hungry, I filled my pockets
with biscuits, which I ate, as I went about doing other things.

Having found some spare planks. I made a raft, which I loaded with
bread, some hatchets, bags of nails, several cases of cordinls, a car-
penter's chest, worth more to me than a cargo ol'gold, two good fow-
ling pieces, two pistols, some powder-horns, two barrels of powder,
some bullets, and two rusty swords; with these precious treasures]
put to sea, and safely reached the island, \\ here I secured my raft in
a bay to a broken oar stuck in the ground, and then got my cargo
safely on land. I now made a kind of hut of sea chests and planks
and laying my guns and pistols near me, went to sleep.

Day after day I returned to the vessel, each time bringing some-
thing away with me. The last and eleventh voyage I made, was
suddenly cut short; for the wind began to rise, so that I had not time
to make a raft, but was obliged to swim to the shore for my life
The next morning the wreck was not to be seen, and thankful fi..
what I had saved from her, I set about constructing a dwelling. Hur-
ing found a convenient spot where there was ii-esh water, security
from man and beast, and shelter from the weather,--namel y, a sort of
hollow place before a cave, I proceeded in the following manner: I
first drew a half circle before the hollow place, and in itI placed two
rows.of strong stakes firmly into the ground; they stood about live
and a half feet high, and were sharpened at the top; these I so thick-
ly interwore with some pieces of cable which I had brought from the
ship, that an impenetrable wall was formed. The entrance was at the
'top, by a short ladder, which I lifted in alter me. Into this enclosure
I carried all my stores, and made a large t- nt to secure myself and
them from the weather Meantime, 1 daily made excursions in the

island always with my gun: I found plenty ul wild goats and pigeons
which I managed to shoot.I was not entirely without companions, for though I had no human
friend, yetl had saved from the wreck two cats and a dog, the last of
Which was of the greatest use to me, in many ways. ln one of my
rambles I caught. a parrot, which I taught to speak, and which airorded
me much pleasure.

After I had been about ten days on shore, a fear lest I should cease
to be able to tell the Sundays from the other days, caused me to in-
rent a reckoning of my own. Haring set. up a wooden post, I out
upon it these words, "I on": OK suom-z HERE, the 30th of SEPTEMBER,
1659;" and every day added afresh notch; every seventh notch]
mace as long again as the others. I must not forget to mention that; quaint-15;fillillf'ieikmwwr'~ ..

"N, i

 

i brought three good bibles and a few other books, from the ship, also
some mathematical instruments, and some pens, ink, and paper.
When my dwelling was finished, I made for myself a table and chair.
One day, having need of a bag, and which had had a few grains
of corn in it, I threw the contents on the earth, outside my tent, little
thinking what would be the issue: it was just before the heavy rains,
and about a month afterwards, I saw some young green stalks shoot-
lllg out of the ground; these proved to be ears of barley and rice.
When I had been about a year on the island, I was taken senouslv .
ill: and then it was.I found the greatest comfort from my best posses-

sion,--the Bible.
55:.

I now began regularly to sow and gather in my harvests of barley
and rice, for I had saved my seed, and sown it again, untill had a
good stock. As to my dress, I had a great high--crowned hat, made
of goat's-skin; a jacket, the skirt of which came down to my knees;
and a pair of open--kneed breeches, the hair of which hung down to
the middle of my legs; in the plat-e of shoes and stockings,I had a
kind of slipper, made also of goat's skin. I wore a leathern girdle
round my waist, and a belt over my shoulder, on which to carry my
basket. ~On one side of my girdle I hung a saw, and on _the other a
hatchet; under my arm hung two pouches for my shot and powder.
On my shoulder was a gun; and over my head, to keep off the sun, I
carried a great clumsy umbrella; thus was I indeed a strange figure.

One day, feeling a desire to travel across the island, I set out, and
soon reached the western coast; when I was startled by seeing a
mark in the sand, resembling the print of a man's foot; presently]
came to a place where I saw human skulls, hands, and feet, scattered
about, near the remains of a fire. I no longer doubted that cannibals
had been there; and in fright. and horror ran home as fast as I could.

I now began to yearn for the society of a human being, the fear of
savages keeping me in continual dread. At length, one morning at
sunrise, 1 saw live canoes full of them come on shore, and soon after
no less than thirty of them were dancing round a tire. Then I saw
the cannibals drag two men out of a canoe, one of whom they imme
diately stunned; but the other escaped from their grasp, and fled to-
wards me with surprising swiftness. 'l'erribly alarmed as I was, I
determined to stand my ground, and was all the more encouraged, as
lsaw but three of the savages pursued him; on coming toa creek,
one turned back, but the other two followed the poor creature through
the water.' I beckoned to him to stop, and going towards his enemies,
I knocked the nrst down with the stock of my gun, and seeing that
the other was aiming his arrow at me, I shot him dead. The poor
savage I had saved, was much terrified by the report of my gun, but
he came to me and made the sign of submission, by placing his head
beneath my foot; then I led him to my cave, and refreshed him with
bread, some raisins, and a draught of water, after which I caused him
to lie down and go to sleep.

I had now a companion, and by degrees taught [um I!) converse
with me; he was a very apt scholar, and soon learned to pronounce
English words. [called him Friday, from the day of the week on
which I saved his life; I gave him clothes. and taught him to call me'5
1
l

/ l, H

in
.5

 

master. Soon my man Friday became very useful to me, and could
do anything.

Many years did this faithful servant and myself remain on this desert
island; but at length Friday, who I had sent to the sea shore, for a
turtle, came running back to me in great terror, telling me, as well as
he could, that he had seen some canoes and some prisoners. We took
our muskets, and having fired at the cannibals, killed three and
wounded five; after which the rest escaped in two canoes. We hast-
ened to the canoe theyhad left, where we found a poor old black man,
tied hand and foot, ready to be killed. Friday fell upon the poor man,

and having hugged and kissed him, he explained to me that; it was hisown dear father. The old man told us that the savages had taken him
from a ship, which lay at anchor near an adjoining island, on board
which he had been, and was just leaving, when they came. We soon
agreed that Friday and his father should go in the canoe to the ship,
and implore the captain to come round to me. Anxiously I waited
until I saw the vessel bearing down ; but what was my joy on discov-
ering the captain was an Englishman? The tale is soon told--I ar
ranged with the captain for a passage to England for myself, my man
Friday, and his father; and after a fine passage, arrived in this happy
country. I left the island on the 19th of December, 1687, having been
upon it twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days.

1
l
llifiinlieiei

           
                
      
                  
       
       

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS,

of Babel. I
Three Games in one Board.

I Rot-Ills $1 15 each. '
l

A triple combination of monl games. Tim Pilgrim's
i'rogrena illusiralrs linnyan's great book: The Sun
day'o'chool gauw. 'i'ht- rem tationx ol' Ninth. and
The Tower of liubul is brat on the biblical account
of tlmt great ton-er.

l
[JOHN GILI'IN,

lBainbow Backgammon, and the Be-
' wildered Travelers.
Three Games in one Board,

1 lit-tails SI 75 ent-h.

' in the Giipm game. :nnmu onicr of "in great
' Train "and ('apt in i< Inmlt- a Wall! '--1l

1 or the game bung at dillicult to wach

l fumed Inn at lsltnglon. nainuow iluc

' excels all other backgammon Kaunas. and lilc lie

l \vildt-red Travelers ir an originality that rarely ran:
to linusc.

    
      

' THE MONOPOLIST--N'ew,

' Ten- Up, and Mariner's Compass.
' Three Games in one Board.

Retulln SI 75 (tn-II.

' 0n "iii board llu- gn-nt struggli- llirlwcl'll l'npiral u :
! Labor can be fought o the nu 'acdnn of
' arv succcsxlul. the)

 

   

, .rrtivs. and. if [he I.

i .rvak the Monopolnt. nl become )l-mopo

' themselves. Ten-Ur is named from its ten put
to be made. and. ikt- lllv Mariner's Colnpus
xroslt from the domain of invenlion.

  
 

        
             
   
         
       
             
     

I JEROME PARK STEEPLF-CHASE.

The Balky Horse, and Pool.
Three Games in one Board.
Retails 82 00 turn.

it popular on bolh Continenli. lialky "or,- .L
Pool, un- butli livvly and lilting com unions 1'.
Ind doslhwd also to gain like popular l)',

 

.GAME OF LIFE'S )liSHAI'S.

Domino Rex, and Diamonds and
Hearts.

Three Games in one Board. .
Relnlls 81 00 each.

In this me. the ridiculoui adventures of a " l'kdiy
from .ork" are brought our in the "air! hJ'L.~"
' which the layerx envounu-r on their way -
"Goal." mino Rex game for quick wits
and cicsr heath. and "c t< and Dimnm - for
than who ilk: limes of chance--depending , the
'- throw of lhe die "

      
     
   
        
           
          
       

 

 
 

      

 

 

Similar to Backgammon Boards --lmplements Substantial.

Going to Sunday-School. and Tower[

9 The gnu liunilc'ract- znmo. who-c merits hiH't' 11:ch >>

 

A' . over-welcome Checker nnd Backgammon boards but

llur|

E BOARDSf

   

M

 

ETHE CAPTIVE PRINCESS,
Tournament, and Pathfinders.
Three Games in one Board.

Rel-ii. 81 00 each.

, .
'l'Lplivn Princess is a very simple nnd meritorious:

came. played with printcd cubes eormponding t0'
the colors of th: board. Toum-menl. Ind Path-
finders. Are Mao very "salary," and pilycd with
the same implements.

' AMBUSCADE, &
Bounce, and Constellation. '
Three Games in one Board.

Retails 81 00 each. :

Ambuscade it \vt-ll described by its name. Ind contains
it" lhu cast-mink or a game or the highest order,
blending equnlly chance with skill. "'0 ice! that
we are tnodc-rnlt- in its praise. when we say, it Is
fully the m of any-(fume in the murkot. The
addition of llnuncr. an Constellation, nukes this
board a prize lor tin: family circle

 

CATS AND MICE,

Gantiope, and Lost Diamond.

Three Games in one Board.

Retail: 91 00 such.

Cats and like is the oddcrt nnd liveliest of games. '
"'hat is livelier than n nimble iillic mantel--unless
it be the cat that catch ' --and the llnyers for the
time become cats and min vith rut n. Ganliopc
is one or our happy hitr. and the Lost Diamond a

source or Wunllit to the unvmpioycd or perplexed
mind.

   
     

TOUSEL,

Checkers, and Backgammon.
' Three Games in one Board.

l Retail: 31 00 took.

[We have sought in Tile Game of 7'0qu to give the
public a sttvrling game. in combinnlion with the

unlike the inner. I" usually sold. nirnislied with
iniplemenls Ind directions complclv.

GO-BANG--New--Ready in September.

Russian Tivoii. Fox and Geese, Soli-
taire, and the German Siege Gama.

Five Games in one Board.

Rota": 31 00 such.

' including the moat popular. the oldest. and the newest
l or games--naordlng nmusemcnt for I tin le indl~

viiiual. or for I party. Russian Tivoll t e intent .
novelty.

 

 

 

    

u'cLoUoHIIN bios. MIN--UFACTURERS. NEW YORK. '

5.4