.3
IIT 5'
_' If" 4
,,t!'.' , ,,
' r] W" .
1/'//r
mtg.

It

1THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE:

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

8x

ILLUSTRATED BY GILBERT, CRUIKSHANK,
' AND BROWN.

LONDON:
DARTON AND HODGB, 58 HOLBORN HILL.THE Ll FE OP

DANIEL DE FOE.

THE original name of the author of Robinson Crusoe.
was Daniel Foe; which from caprice, or some other
motive, he lengthened with a prefix, calling himself
De Foe. He was a native of London, born in the
year 1660, of humble parentage, his father, James
Foe, exercising the occupation of a butcher. Daniel
De Foe, 1n the commencement of his career, engaged
in trade: from the business of a hosier he passed to
that of a pantile maker, without any good fortune.
Either from want of prudence, or from dislike to his
occupations, the only reward of his schemes was em-
barrassment and distress.

In the speculations of the literary world he was ,

more fortunate. In 1701, when King William, during
the violence of parties, was censured for his attachment
to, and employment of, foreigners, De Foe espoused
the cause of ' his monarch, and ridiculed his enemiesV1 THE LIFE CF

in a satirical poem, called, "The true-born English-
man." This production was honoured with an enor-
mous sale: and he was encouraged to write another
satire, entitled, " Reformation of Manners," in which
he attacked the vices of some persons of eminent
rank.

A pamphlet, called," The shortest way with the
Dissenters," was so mistaken, or so misrepresented,
that it was declared, by the I-I:n use of Commons, to be
of a li111e1101s nature De Foe, for his offence, was
subjected to fine, in: risonment, and even the nillory.
He did not give his enemies much reason to exult over
his despondenee; for the subject which he took to
amuse his prison hours, was, "A Hymn to the Pillory."
During his confinement he also undertook the "Re-
flew." a periodic-:11 11:1;k or considerahlei impor ance,
in tl 1e 1e1111l )lic of" mu .unsr. if, as had been imagi ned, it
suegestcd the idea of he Tattler and Spectat01,vh1ch
lm.c e111 iched 0111 language with essays of mcompmable
3"- eautv.

De. Inc was employed in promoting the union of

E11.zla11d and :39 otland, of which event he also wrote the
l1istoi'v.'."1'hatccv er Cglor} he gained from 111te1fer1nv
the bittci dinhi 11c sc- politics, he gained little soiid
satisfaction. -'1 s'. cond imprisonment, which 11 :-
fcred, taught 11:111 the fa to which he was to c.:peet
fr 111 the animosity of political opponents. He began
to take a 1: me quiet. and useful path of literat 1re '

3-- u .-

1, 1;, and Izzziizsizel a religious work, called, The
Family Instructor." Of the multitude of his other
productions, specific notice is scarcely necessary. It is
sufficient to mention "The History of the Plague in

166." 5" a novel entitled, "The History of Colonel
J ac.-: ; " " A. new Voyage round the World by a Com.

pany of ItIerehants 3 " "The History of Roxana; "
" The Memoirs of a Ca salier ; " " The History of Moll
Flanders ; " and a book entitled, " Religious Court-
ship," which has passed through numerous editions.
But De Fee's reputation, in the present day, rests
chiefly upon his " Robinson Crusoe," a work which
almost every one has read in his childhood, and the
pleasing impressions of which are scarcely obliterated
in old age. Its simple and perspicuous style is ad-
mirably suited to the capacity of youth: it possesses
enough of the marvellous to seize and delight the
imagination; and the sentiments which it inspires are
such as need not be renounced or corrected in mature
age. Respecting this work there is a story which it
is incumbent to relate, although it never has been
fairly authenticated. It has been afiirmed,* that when
Captain Woodes Rogers touched at the island of Juan
Fernandez, in the South Sea, he brought away Alex-
ander Selkirk, a Scotch seaman, who, having been
left ashore there, had lived upon the island in desolate
solitude, for the space of four years. When Selkirk
returned to England, it is said that he wrote a nar-
rative of his adventures, and put the papers into the

' Encyclopedia Britannica.7111 THE LIFE OF DANIEL DE FOE.

hands of De Foe, to digest for publication; but that
he ungenerously converted the materials into the cele- -
brated History of Robinson Crusoe. Part of this story
may be true, and part. false. That De Foe might have
had the inspection of Selkirk's journal, is very pos- .
sible; and by his powers of description, and skill in
composition, he might have expanded into an enter- ,
taining narrative, what, in its original form, was a dull
and awkward composition. But that he was guilty of
any fraud or injustice towards Selkirk, is a suspicion
which his character of general integrity should induce
us to reject. As there is no credible proof against him,
we are bound to give him an acquittal; both because
he is not able to vindicate himself, and one who has
so entertained the rising generation, has more than
an ordinary right not to be condemned upon doubtful
accusation.

Daniel De Foe died at Islington, in the year 1731.
His daughter was respectably settled in life, by marrying
Henry Baker. an eminent naturalist.
 

I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull.
He got a good estate by merchandise, and, leaving off
his trade, lived afterward at York; from whence he
had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and from
'whom I was called Robinson Krutznaer; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now
called, nay, we call ourselves, and- write our name,
Crusoe ; and so my companions always called me.

I had two elder brothers ; one of whom was lieuten-
ant-colonel to an English regiment of'f'oot inFlanders,
formerly commanded by the famous CelenekLockhart,
and was killed at. the battle near Dunkirk against the
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I
never knew, any more than my father or mother did
know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. My father, who was very ancient,
had given me a competent share of learning, as far as
house education and a country free-school generally
go,.and designed me for the law; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my indi-
nation to this led me so strongly against. the will, nay,

B2 ROBINSON cnuson.

the commands of my father, and against all the en-
treaties and ersuasions of my mother and other
friends, that t ere seemed to be something fatal in
that propension of nature, tending directly to the life
of misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, ave me seriom
and excellent counsel against what he oresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated

 

very warmly with me upon the subject. He asked
me what reasons, more than a wandering inclination,
I had for leaving my father's house, and my native
country ; where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and
industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me
it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of

aspiring superior fortunes on the other, who went
~ abroad upon adventures to rise by enterprise, and
mane tnemselves famous m undertakings of a nature
out of the common road; that these things were all
too far above me, or too far below me ; that mine was
the middle state, or what might be called the upper
station of low life, which he had found, by long ex-
perience, was the best in the world, the most suited to
human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and
hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic,
and not embarrassed with the ride, luxury, and envy of
the upper part of mankind. e told me, I might judge
of the happiness of this state b this one thing, viz., that
this was the state of life whic all other people envied;
that kings have frequently lamented the miserable con-
sequences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes,
between the mean and the great; that the Wise man
gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of true fe-
licity,whenhe pra ed neither to have poverty nor riches.

He bade me o serve it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the up-
per and lower part of mankind; but that tne middle
stations had the fewest disasters, and were not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of
mankind ; nay, they were not subjected to so many dis-
tempers and uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as
those were, who, by vicious living, luxury, and extra-
vaganees, on one hand, or by hard labour, want of
necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet, on the
other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by the
natural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of
Virtues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that
temperance. moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were
the blessings attepgfl'gg the middle station of life; that
this way men went silently and smoothly through the
world, and comfortably out of it ; not embarrassed
with the labours of the hands, or of the head; not
sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed
with perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of
peace, and the body, of rest; not enraged with the
passion of envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition
for great things; but in easy circumstances, sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the
sweets of living without the bitter; feeling that they
are happy, and learning by every days experience to
know it more sensibly.

After this, he pressed me earnest-1y, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was
born in, seemed to have provided against _: that I was
under no necessity of seeking my bread ; that he
would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairlyinto the station of life which he had just been
recommending to me; and that if I were. not- very
easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere
fate, or fault, that must hinder it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt. In a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me, if I would stay and settle at
home as he directed ; so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away ; and to close all, he told me, I had
my elder brother for an example, to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from
going into the Low Country wars ; but could not pre--
vail, his young desires prompting him to run into the
army. where he was killed; and though he said he
would not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture
to say to me, that if I did take this foolish step, God
would not bless me; and I would have leisure here-
after to reflect u on having neglected his counsel,
when there might e none to assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not
know it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears
run down his face very plentifully, especially when he
Spoke of my brother who was killed: and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to repent and none to
assist me, he was so moved, that he broke off the dis-
course, and told me, his heart was so full, he could say
no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as in-
deed who could be otherwise? And I resolved not to
think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home
according to my father's dedre. But, alas! a few
days wore it all off ; and in short, to prevent an of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks re-
solved to run quite away from him. However, I did
not act so hastily neither, as the first heat of my resolu-
tion prompted; but I took my mother at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told
her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anything with
resolution enough to go through with it ; and my father
had better give me his consent, than force me to go
without it : that I was now eighteen years old, which
was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an
attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should never
serve out my time, but I should certainly run away
from my master before my time was out, and go to
sea: and if she would speak to my father to let me go
one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not
hke 113, I would go no more, and I would promise by
a double diligence, to recover the time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She told
B 3
me. she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to
my father upon any such subject: that he knew too
well what wasmy interest. to give his consent to any-
thing so much for my hurt , and that she wondered
how-'6 I could think of any such thing, after the dis-
course I had with my father, and such kind and ten-
der expres ssions, as she knew 1nv father had used to
me; and that, in s1101t,1f I would ruin invs elf, there

was no help for me: but I might depend I should
never have their consent to it: , that, for her part, she
would not have so much hand in my destruction; and
I should never have it to say, that my mother was
willing, when my father was not.

Though my mother re used to move it to my father,
yet I heard afterwa1 ds that she 1eported all the dis-
course to him , and that n1v father. after showing a
great concern at it. said to her with a sigh, 'That
the boy might be happy if he 1* ould stav at home ,
but if he goes abroad he will be the most miserable
wretch that ever was born : I can give no consent to
it. '

It was not till ahnost a year after this that I broke
loose, though 1n the mean time I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre-
quently expostulating with my father, and mother
about their being so positively determined against what
they knew my inclination prompted me to. But being
one day at Hull, whither I went casually . and without
any purpose of making an elopement that time: but,
I say, being there, and one of my companions being
going by sea to London, in his fathers ship, and
prompting me to go with them, with the common al-
lurement of a seafaring man, that it should cost me
nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them w 0rd of
it; but leaving them tel Lear of it as they might, with-nonmsox cntson. 7

out asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any
consideration of circumstances or consequences, and
in an ill hour, God knows, on the first of September,
1651, I went on board a ship bound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The
ship was no sooner gotout of the Humber, but the wind
began to blow, and the sea to rise, in a most fright-
ful manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I
was most inexprcssibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon what
I had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the
judgment of I--Ieaven, for my wickedness in leaving
my father's house, and abandoning my duty. All the
good counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my
mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind;
and my conscience, which was not yet come to the
pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached
me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of
my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many
times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after.
But it was enough to afiect me then, who was but a
young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed
us up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I
thought it did, in the trough or hollow of the sea, we-
should never rise more. In this agony of mind, I
made many vows and resolutions, that if it pleased
God to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I got
once my foot upon dry land again, I would go directly
home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived ; that I would take his advice, and never
run myself into such miseries as these any more.
how I saw plainly the goodness of his observations.8 ROBINSON 0111'5015.

about the middle station of life, 11011 easy, how com-
fortable, he had lived all his da1 s, and never been ex-
posed to tcmpcsts at sea 01 tio1iblcs 011 shorze and in
short I 1esol1 ed that I would, like a true repenting
prodigal, go home to 1111 father.

These 111sc and sober thoughts continued all the
1111ilc the sto1m continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the 111ml 11 as abated, and the
sea calmer, and I began to be a little inuied to it.
Howeve1 I was 1'011 gr'a1c all that day, being also a
little sea-sick still: but towards niglit then 11 eathc
cleared up, the M1111 11 as quite over, Dand a charminLr
fine e1e111n1r tolloued the sun went down perfectly
clear, and 1ose so the next morning; and having lit-
tle or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining
upon it, the sight 1113, as I thought, the most delight-
ftil that ever 1 saw.

I had slept 11 ell 1n the night, and was now no more
sea-sick, but vei1' chee1tul: looking with wonder
upon the sea that 11 as so rough and terrible the day
before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so lit-
tle a time after. '1nd now, lest mv resolution should
continue, my companion, 11'ho indeed had enticed me
away, comes to me: 'Well, Bob,' says he, clapping
me upon the shoulder, 'how do 1ou do after 1t? I
warrant you 11' 01c frighted, 11'a' n 't 1011, last night, when
it ble1vb11t a capfull of wind I? ' ' A capfull d'1'ou call
it?' said I, "twas a terrible storm.' '11 storm, you
fool 1'o.u ' ' replies he: 'do you call that a storm'.z
"111' it 11:15 nothing at all: give us but a good ship
and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall
of mud as that: but, you're but a fresh-w ater
sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we e'll forget all that. D'1'ou see 11hat charming
weather' tis now ? ' To make short this sad part of my
story, we went the way of all sailors: the punch was
made, and I was made half drunk with it, and in that
one night's wickedness I drowned all my re-
pentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
and all my resolutions for the future. In a word,
as the sea was returned to its smoothness of sur-
face, and settled calmness, by the abatement of that
storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being over, my
fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the
sea being forgotten, and the current of former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that
I made in my distress. I found indeed some intervals
of reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again sometimes; but I shook
them off, and roused myself from them, as it were from
a distemper; and applying myself to drinking and
company, soon mastered the return of those fits (for
so I called them) ; and I had, in five or six days, got
as complete a victory over conscience, as any young
fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could
desire. But I was to have another trial for it still ;
and Providence, as in such cases generally it does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse: for if
I would not take this for a deliverance, the next was
to be such a one, as the worst and most hardened
wretch among us would confess both the danger and
the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into
Yarmouth Roads: the wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little way
since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor : and here we lay, the wind continuing
contrary, viz., at south-west, for seven or eight days:
during which time a great many ships from Newcastle
came into the same roads, as the common harbour
where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long, but we10 Ronrxsox causon.

should ha1e tided it up the river, but that the mud
blc11 too f1esh 1; and, after we had lain four or five
day s, blew 1011' hard. However, the roads being
reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good,'
and cm ground tackle 1'er1' strong, our men were un-
concerned, and not in the least apprehensive of dan-
ger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manne1 ot the sea, but the eighth day 1n the morning
the 11111d1nc1caxed and we had all hands at work to
st1ike our top- masts, and make e1' er1thing snug and
close, that the 3'. 1i 1 might ride as easy as possible.
131' 110011, the sea 11c11t very high indeed, and our ship
rode force astle 111, shipped sev eral seas, and we thought
once 01 twice 0111 ancho1 had come home , upon 11 Inch
our master ordc1ed out the sheet-anchor, so that we
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered
out tot 1-e be tcr end.

131' this time itble11'a tcr1ible storm indeed; and
no" I began to sac tcr1o1 and amazement in the faces
e1' e11 of the seamtn themselves. The master, though
1igilant 111 the b 1s311ess of preserving the ship, yet, as
he 11e11t in and out of his cabin byo me, I could hear
him softly to himself, say several times, 'Lord, be
me' c1ful to us! We shall be all lest: we shall be all
undone!' and the like. Diningr these fust hurries I
was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which 11as in the
stee1age, and cannot describe my temper. I could ill
1csu1ne my first penitence, which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and l1a1dened my self against. I
thought the bittemcss of death had been past, and
that this 11ould be nothing too, like the first. But
11hen the master himselfa came by me, as I said Just
now, and said we should be all lost, I11as d1eadfully
f1ighted.ot up out of my cabin, and looked out;
but such a Iilismal sight I never sa1'; the sea went
mountains high, and broke upon 1s every three or
four minutes. When I could look about, I could
see nothing but distress around us. Two ships that
rid near us, we found had cut their masts by the
board, being deep loaden ; and our men cried out, that
a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us was
foundered. Two more ships, being driven from their
anchors, were run out of the roads to sea, at all adven-
tures, and that not with a mast standing. The light
ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the
sea; but two or three of them drove, and came close
by us, running away, with only their sprit-sail out, be-
fore the wind.

Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain beg-
oed the master of our ship to let them cut away the
lore-mast, which he was very unwilling to do; but the
boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not, the
ship would founder, he consented : and when they
had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast stood so
loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged
to cut that . way also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But, if I
can express at this distance the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in ten-fold more horror of
mind upon account of my former convictions, and the
having returned from them to the resolutions I had
wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself;
and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me
into such a condition that I can by no words describe
it. But the worst was not come yet: the storm con-
tinued with such fury, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged they had never seen a worse. "We had
a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and so swallowed
in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried
out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by
founder, till I inquired. However, the storm was
so violent, that I saw what is not often seen. the mas-
ter. the boatswain. and some others more sensible
than the rest. at. their prayers. and expecting every
moment that the ship would go to the bottom. In
the middle of the night. and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men that had been down
on purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a leak;
anothe ' said, there were four feet water in the hold.
Then all hands were called to the pump. .-\t that very
word my heart, as I thought. died within me ; and I
fell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat.
into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told
me. that I that was able to do nothing before, was as
well able to pump as another: at which I stirred up.
and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
\Vhile this was doing, the master, who seeing some
light colliers which, not able to ride out the stor n.
were obliged to slip and run away to sea. and would
come near us. ordered to fire a gun as a signal of dis-
tress. I. vvho knew nothing what that meant, was so
surprised, that I thought the ship had broken, or some
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I had so sur-
prised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a
time when everybody had his own life to think of, no-
body minded me, or what was become of me : but an-
other man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been
dead; and it was a great while before I came to
myself.

"'e worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would founder: and
though the storm began to abate alittle, yet- asit was
not possible she could swim till we might run into any
port, so the master continued firing guns for help;nonrxsox causes. 13

and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the ut-
most hazard the boat came near us; but it was im-
possible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie
near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ou's, our
men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it,
and then veered it out- a great length, which they,
after much labour and hazard. took hold of ; and we
hauled them close under our stern, and got into their
boat. 1': was to no purpose for them or us, after we
were in the boat, to think of reaching to their own
ship : so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull
her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat was staved upon
shore, he would make it good to their master. So
partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went away
to the northward, sloping toward the shore almost as
far as \\"intertonness.

\\'e were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, but we saw her sink; and then I
understood, for the first time, what was meant by a.
ship foundering in the sea. 1 must acknowledge I had
hardly eyes to look up, when the seamen told me she
was sinking; for, from that moment, they rather put
me into the boat, than that I might be said to go in;
my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with
fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts
of what was before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see (when our boat mounted the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many people run-
ning along the strand to assist us when we should come
near. But we made but slow way towards the shore;
nor were we able to reach the shore till, being past

C
the light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the
westward towards Cromer ; and so the land broke off
a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in;
and, though not without much difficulty, got all safe
on shore; and walked afterward on foot to Yarmouth,
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town. who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants
and owners of ships; and had money given us sutlicient
to carry us either to London, or back to Hall, as we
thought tit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hall,
and have gone home, I lzad been happy. and my
father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour-is parabl ,
had even killed the fatted calf for me; for. h'aring
the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmoutlz
Roads, it was a great while before he had any assurances
that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist ; and though I had severai
times loud calls from my reason. and my more com-
posed judgment, to go home. yet I had no power to do
it. I know not what to call this ; nor will I urge,
that it is a secret overruling decree, that hurries us on
to be the instruments of our own destruction. even
though it be before us. and that we rush upon it witl;
om' eyes open. Certainly, nothing but. some such
decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me
forward against the calm reasoning and persuasions of
my most retired thoughts, and against two such visible
instructions as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for
.'e 11' ere separated 1n the town to several quarters; I
say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone 11' as
alte1ed; and, looking very melancholy, and shaking
his head, asked me how I did: and telling his father
11 ho I 11 as, and how I had come this 1'01 age only for
a t11'11i11 order to go farther abroad; his father turning
to me 11itl1 a very gra1e and concerned tone, 'Young
man,' sa1 s he,' 1ou ought never to go to sea any
1n01e; 1011 ought to take this for a plain and visible
token, that you are not to be aseafzuing man." Why,

si',' sai1lI,'11ill you go to sea no more?' 'That is
another ease,' said he ; 'it is my calling, and therefore
1111' dut1'- , but, as 1'011 made this voyage for a trial,
you see what a taste Heaven has 0'11 e11 you of 11hat
1011 are to expect if 1'011 persist: peihaps all this has
hefallen us 011 your account, like lonali 111 the ship of
1.11slnsh Pray,' continued he,' 11 hat are you? and
011 what account did 1' 011 go to sea 1? ' I pnn that I told
him some of my story , at the end of which he bust
out with a strange kind of passion, ' What had I done,'
says he, ' that such an unhappy 11'retel1 should come
into 1111' ship? I 11011111 not set m1 foot in the same
ship 11ith thee again 1'01 :1 thousand pounds!' This
indeed 11 as, as I said, an excursion of his spiiits, which
11 me yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was
faithei' than he could have authority to go. 110111,ver,
he afte111 ards talked 1er1' gra1'el1 to me, exhorting me
to go back to n11 father, and not tempt P101 idence to
1n1'r11in , told me I might see the visible hand of
Heaven against me, --' And 1oung man,' said he,

'depend upon it, if you do not go back, 11'here1' er you
go, 1011 11111 meet 111th nothing but disast'. rs and dis-
appointments, till your father's words a1e fulfilled upon
you.'

'11 e parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more: which 11' av he 11 ent I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
traV elled to London by land: and there. as well as on
the road had many struggles VV'ith m y,'self VV hat course
of life I should take, and whether 1 should go home,
or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that oftered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
curred to me how I should be laughed at among the
neighbour; and should be asl amed to see not my
father and mother oan', but even everybody else
From whence. I have since often observed l10VV' incon-
gruous and i11ational the common temper of mankind
is, especially of Vouth, tot at reason that ought to
guide them in such cases. V iz., that they me not
ashamed to sin and V'et are. ashamed to repent - not
ashamed of the actions for VV h1ch they ought justly to
be esteemed fools. but are ashamed of the returning,

which only can make them esteemed VV1se men.

In this state of life l10VV ever Iremained some time
uncertain VV hat measures to take and what course 01
life tol ad. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home 1 and. as I staV ed aVV' hile, the 1'1-111e111'n1'1 nice.
of the dist1ess I had been in new 03:111111 as that

abated. the little motion I had 1n my desires more ofi
with it till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it,
and looked out- for a V 0V aV._Ve

'l hat eV'il influence VV hich carried me first away from

nV'f11ther house, VVl11cl11111111edmemto the VV 1111111111
indigested notion of 1aising my fortune. and that 1111-
pressed those conceits so forciblV upon me. as to make
me deaf to all good adV'iCe, and to the entreaties and
even the commands of my father; I say the same

'nfluence VVhateve r it was, presented the most unfor-
tum' te of all enterprises to my view ' and I VV cut 011
board a vessel bound to the coast of \frt 11 01, as 0111
sailo1s V'ulga1 'lV call it, a voyage to Guiniea.
t was my great misfortune, that in all these ad-
ventures, I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby.
though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learned the
duty and office of a fore-mast man, and in time might
have qualified myself for mate or lieutenant, if not for
a master. But as it was always my fate to choose for
the worse, so I did here; for, having money in my
pocket, and good clothes to my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I
neither had any business in the ship, nor learned to do
any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen to
such loose and unguided young fellows as I then was;
the devil not omitting to lay some snare for them very
early: but it was not so with me. I first fell ac-
quainted with the master of the ship, who had been on
the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good
success there, was resolved to go again. This captain,
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was 'not
disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind
to see the world, told me, if I would go the voyage
with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his
messmate, and his companion; and if I could carry
any thing with me, I should have all the advantage of
it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might
meet with some encouragement.

I embraced the offer, and, entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest plain-
dealing man, went the voyage with him; and carried
a small adventure with me, which, by the disinterested
honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very
considerably; for I carried abOut 402. in such trifles as
the captain directed me to buy. This 401. I had
mustered together by the assistance of some of my

03
relations whom I corresponded w: th a11_l who I be-
1ieve,0gt my fat-,her or at least my mother, to con-
t1 ibutc so much as that to 111; first adventure.

This was the onlyvoyage which I may say was suc-
cessful in all my adventures .and which I owe to the
integrity and honest of my f1iend thee captain: under
whom I also got a competent knowledge of the 1111.-
thematics, and the rules of navigation; learned how
to keep an account of the ship's course. take an ob-
servation, and, in short, to understand some things
that were needful to be. understood by a sailor: for
as he took delight to instruct me I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a 111e1chantfor I bi oug ht home five pounds
nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure which
yielded me in L011 ion, at my re urn, almost 300l.;
and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which
have since so completed my 1uin.

Yet, even in this voyage, I had my 111isfortunes
too; particularly that I was continually sick, being
thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat
of the climate, 01n' principal trading being upon the
coast, from the latitude of 11') degrees N. even to the
Line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader ; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again : and
I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the c0111-
mand of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage
that ever man made; for though I did not carry quite
100l. of my new-gained wealth, so that I had 2001.
left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who
was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes
in this voyage ; and the first was this, viz. .. our ship,
making her course towards the Canaiy Is .ands, or
rather between those islands and the African shore,
was surprised in the gray of the morning by a Moorish
rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail
she could make. "We crowded also as much canvas as
our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have
got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and
the Rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just
athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as
he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on
that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which
made him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and
poru'ing in also his small shot from near two hundred
men which he had on board. However, we had not a
man touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared
to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves; but,
laying us on board the next time upon the other quar-
ter, he entered ninety men upon our decks, who im-
mediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and
rigging. \Ve plied them with small shot, half-pikes,
powder- hests, and such like, and cleared our decks of
them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three
of our men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged
to yield; and were carried all prisoners into Sallee,
a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended ; nor was I carried up the country
to the Emperor's court, as the rest of our men were,
but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked20 nomxsox CRUSOE.

back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me,
which I thought was now so effectually brought to

ass, that I could not be worse ; that now the hand of

eaven had overtaken me, and I was undone without
redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel
of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to
his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it
would be some time or other his fate to be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war ; and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left
me on shore to look after his little garden, and do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and
when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered
me to lie in the cabin, to look after the ship.

We were frequently out with this boat a fishing;
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he
never went without me. It happened one day, after
I had been with him about two years, that he had ap-

ointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
or fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction,
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and
had therefore sent on board the boat over night a
larger store of provisions than usual ; and had ordered
me to get ready three fusils with powder and shot,
which were on board his ship; for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready, as he had directed ; and
waited the next morning with the boat washed clean,
her ancient and pendants out, and every thing to ac-
commodate his guests; when, by and by, my patron
came on board alone, and told me his guests had put
off going, upon some business that fell out, and or-
dered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out
with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his
friends were to sup at his house. He commanded me,
too, that as soon as I had got some fish I' should
bring it. All which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for fish-
ing, but for a voyage: though I knew not, neither
did I so much as consider, whither I would steer; for
anywhere to get out of that place was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our subsist-
ence on board; for I told him we must not presume
to eat of our patron's bread. He said that was true;
so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their
kind. and three jars with fresh water, into the boat.

I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which
it was evident by the make were taken out of some
English prize, and I conveyed them into the heat,
while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been
there before for our master. I conveyed also a great
lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed about
half a hundredweight, with a parcel of twine or
thread, a hatchet, asaw, and a hammer, all of which
were of great use to us afterwards, especially the wax
to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him,
which he innocently came into also. His name was
Ishmael, whom they called Muley, or Moley ; so I
called to him : ' Moley,' said I, our patron's guns are
all on board the boat: can you not get a little powder
and shot? it may be we may kill some alcomies (a
fowl like our curlews) for ourselves; for I know he
keeps the gimner's stores in the ship.' ' Yes,' says he,
' I'll bring some.' :10001'11111'213. he brought a great
leather pouch, 11 hich held abodt a pound and a half of
p011 der 01' rather more; .1111 another 11 1th shot, that
had five or six pounds, 11 1th some bullets, and put all
into the boat. At the same time I had found some
ponder of mym masters in the great cabin, "ith 11111011

filled one of the large bottles 111 the ease, "hich' "as
almost empty, pouring "hat 11' as in it into another, -
and thus furnished 111th 01 e1 1' taing needful,1\e sailed
out of the port to fish. The castle, uhich is at the
entrance ot the port, knew 11.110 ue 11 ere, and took no
notice of us ;and "e 11 ere not above a mile out of the
port, before "e hauled in 0111 sail, and sat 115 down
to fish. The Wind blew 110111 the N. N. E. which "as
contrarv to my desire; f01 had it blown so11thcrlv,I
had been sure to have 111.1111 the coast of Spain, and
at least reached to the 11:11 of Cadiz ; but mv resolu-
tions were. blow which 11:11 it 11011111, I 11011111 be gone
from that horrid place where I "as, and leax e the rest
to fate.

After ue had fished 3011c time and catched nothing
(for "hen I had fish on 111} hook, I "011111 not pull
them up, that he might not see them.) I said to the
Moor, ' This will not do: 0111 master 11111 not be thus
served. "'0 must stand farther oh". ' He, thinking
no harm, agr'eed ; and being 1n the head of the boat,
set the sails and, as I had the helm, I run the boat
out near a league faither, and then brought her to,
as if I "ould fish; 1' hen gixing the b0}: the helm, I
stepped fmward to 11 here the \Ioor we 15, and making
as if I stooped for something behind him, I took him
b1 surprlse "ith mx' arm under his twist, and tossed
him clear overboaid into the sea. He rose imme-
diately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken 1n, told me he 11011111 go all over
the Dworld 111th me. He svs am so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly,
there being but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling pieces,
I presented it at him, and told him I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet, I would do him
none: But,' said I, ' you swim well enough to reach
the shore, and the sea is calm; make the best of your
way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you

 

come near the boat, I'll shoot you throu h the head,
for I am resolved to have my liberty.' 0 he turned
himself about, and swam for the shore, and I make
no doubt but he reac ;1el it- with case, for he was an
excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. \\'l1en he was gone, I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, -
' X1u'y,if you 11 ill be faithful to me, I'll make \'011 a
great 1i1a11 , but if y 011 will not- stroke your face to be
true to me ' that is, swe car by Mahomet, and his fa-
the1's heard, 'I must throw you into the sea too.' .lhe
boy smiled in my face. and spoke so innocently, that
I could not mistrust him ; and swore to be faithful to
me. and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was s11 i111-
ming. I stood out directly to sea with the boat, iatl ier
stretching to windwari'l, that they might think me ,
gone toward the Straits mouth gas indeed any one
that had been in their wits must 1ave been supposed
to do) : for who would have apposed we were sailed
011 to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround
us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could
never once go 011 shore, but we should be devom'ed by
sa 'age beasts, or more merciless savages of human
kind '3

But, as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south and by
east, bending my course a little towards the east, that
I might keep in with the shore; and having afair fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I C"made such
sail that I believe. by the next day at three o clock
in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I could
not be less than 1:30 miles south of Sallee, quite beyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no such

people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had
sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the southward, I concluded also, that if any
of our vessels were in chase after me, they also would
now give over ; so I ventured to make to the coast,
and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river,
I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what
country, what nation, or what river. I neither saw
nor desired to see any pe0ple ; the principal thing I
wanted was fresh water. "'0 came into this creekin
the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it
was dark, and discover the country, but as soon as it
was quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of
we knew not what kinds, and the poor boy was ready
to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore
till day. ' \V ell, Xury,' said I, 'then I won't; but it
may be we may see men by day, who will be as bad
to us as those lions.' ' Then we may give them the
shoot gun,' says Xury, laughing, ' make them run
way.' Such English Xury spoke, by conversing
among us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy
so cheerful, and I gave him a dram (out of our pa-
tron's case of bottles) to cheer him' up. After all,
Xiu'y's advice was good, and I took it: we dropped
our little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for
we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast
great creatures, we knew not what to call them, of
many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into
the water, wallowing and washing themselves for the
pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such
hideous howling and yellings, that I never heard the
like. -

D
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I
too; but we were both worse frighted when we heard
one of the mighty creatures come swimming towards
om' boat: we could not see him, but we might hear
him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and fu-
rious beast. Xm'y said it was a lion, and that it might
be for aught I know. Poor Xury cried out to me to
weigh the anchor, and row away. ' No,' says I,
'Xury, we can slip our cable with a buoy to it, and
go to sea; they cannot follow us far.' I had no sooner
said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was)
within two oars' length, which something surprised
me: however I immediately stepped to the cabin door,
aud taking up my gun, fired at him, upon which he
Immediately turned about, and swam towards the
shore again.

But it was not possible to describe the horrible
noises and hideous cries and howlings that were
raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher
within the country, upon the noise or report of a gun ;
a thing, I have some reason to believe, these crea-
tlu'es had never heard before. This convinced me
that there was no going on shore for us in the night
upon that coast, and how to venture on shore in the
day, was another question too; for, to have fallen into
the hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to
have fallen into the paws of lions and tigers ; at least
we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
in the boati when or where to get it, was the point.
Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one of
the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go,
why I should not go, and he stay in the boat. The
boy answered with so much affection that made me
love mm ever after. Says he, ' If wild mans come,
they eat me; you go way.' ' Well, Xury,' said I, 'we
will both go ; and 1f the wild mans come, we will kill
them : they shall eat neither of us.' So I gave Xury
a piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned before, and
we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thou ht
was proper, and waded on shore, carrying nothing ut
our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river:
but the boy seeing a low lace, about a mile up the
country, rambled to it, and y and by I saw him come
running towards me. I thought he was pursued bv
some savage, or frighted with some wild beast, andI
'an forward towards him to help him; but when I
came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like
a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs. How-
ever, we were very glad of it, and it was very good
meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came with,
was to tell me he had found good water, and seen no
wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we found the water fresh when the tide was
out, which flows but a little way up: so we filled our
jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, and pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of
any human creature in that part of the country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from the
coast. But as I had no instruments to take an obser-
vation to know what latitude we were in, and did not
exactly know, or at least not remember what latitude

n2
they were in, I knew not. where to 1001 for th 1n or
when to standoff to sea towards them Otherwise I
might now easily have found some of these islands.
But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till
I came to that part 11' 1111. the English traded I
should find some of their vessels upon their usual
design of trade, that would relieve and take 11s in.

By the best of 1nyea1101'1ation, that place where I
110w was must be that co 11ntry which, lving between
the emperor of Morocco s dominions and the \ egr oes,
lies waste and uninhabited. except by wild beasts, the
Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther south,
for fee r of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it
w orth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness, and in-
deed both fors aking it because of the prodigious num-
bers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious crea-
tures which harbour the1e, so that the Moors use it-
for their hunting onlv, where theyg <<0 like an army,
two or three thousand men at a time: and indeed for
near a111111d1e1;l111iles together upon this coast-1 we saw
nothing but a we ste uninhabited country 131 (lav. and
heard nothing but 110111 11 gs and 1oa1ings of wild
beasts by night.

Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the
Pico of 'I'eneriffe, being the high top of the mountain
Teneriffe in the Canaries, and had a great mind to
venttu'e out in hopes of reaching thither; but, having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel , so I
resolved to pt 'sue my first design, 11nd keep along
the shore.

Several times we were obliged to land for fresh
water, after we had left this place ; and once in par-
ticular, being eailv in the morning, we came to an
anchor under 1. little point of land, which was pretty
high, and the tide be ginning to flow, we lav still to go
farther m. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells
me that we had best go farther off the shore, ' For,'
says he, 'look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
side of that hillock, fast asleep.' I looked Where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed; for it
was a terrible great lion, that lay on the side of the
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill, that hung
as it were a little over him. ' Xury,' said I, 'you
shall go on shore, and kill him.' Xury looked
frighted, and said, 'Me kill! He eat me at one
mouth!' one mouthful he meant. However, I said
no more to the boy, but bade him be still, and took
our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and
loaded it with a good charge of owder, and with two
slugs, and laid it down; then IPloaded another gun
with two bullets, and the third (for we had three
pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the
)est aim I could with the first piece, to have shot him
into the head ; but he lay so with his leg raised a lit-
tle above his nose, that the slug hit his leg about the
knee, and broke the bone. He started up growlin
at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, an
then got upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I
had not hit him on the head : however, I took up the
second piece immediately; and; though he began to
move ofi', fired again, and shot him in the head, and
had the pleasure to see him drop, and making but lit-
tle noise, he lay struggling for life. Then fury took
heart, and would let me have him go on shore.
'Well, go,' said I. So the boy jumped into the water,
and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore
with the other hand, and coming close to the creature,
put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him
in the head again, which dispatched him quite.

n330 210111.\'sox cntson.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I w as rent sorry to loose three charges of powder
and shot upon a creature that xx as good for nothing
to us However Xurx' said he xx ould have. some of
him: so he comes on board, andL '1'sked me to give
him the hatchet. For xx hat, Xury. " said I. 1:316
cut off his head,' said be. However X111 x' could not
cut off his head, and he cut off a foot. and b1 ouI ht it
with him. and 1t- xx as a monstrous great 0111-.

I bethoug 'ht 111x'self hoxx ever, that perhaps the skin
of him 111iI' rht one xx av or other be. some x alue to us;
and I resolved to take of? the skin if I could. So Xury
and I xx cut to xx"o1k with him, but Xurx' xx .1>> much
the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to
do it. Indeed it took us 11p the whole day : but at
last we got- off the hide of him. and. sp1'LaLli11I'-'1t on
the top of ourc cabin the sun effect11LLllx'LI11ed it 111 two
days time and it afterxx ard served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made 011 to the southxx a1 d con-
tinually, for ten or twelve days, living x'erx sparingly
on an provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going 110 oftener into the shore than xxe were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say. any-
where about the Cape do Verd, where I was in hopes
to meet with some European ship and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to take. but to seek for
the islands, or perish there among the \egroes. I
knew that all the ships from Etu'ope which aziled
either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil. or to the
East Indies, made. this cape or those islands. and in a
word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single

point, either that I must meet with some ship or must
perish.

\\ hen I ha '1; p11 ursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I L W. said: began to see the. duel .L 11d
was inhabited : and in two or three places, as we
sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look
at us; we could also perceive they were quite black,
and stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone
on shore to them, but Xury was my better counsellor,
and said to me, ' No go, no go.' However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk'to them, and I
found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I
observed they had no weapons in their hands, except
one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said
was a lance. and that they would throw them a great
way with good aim: so I kept at a distance, but talked
with them by signs as well as I could, and particularly
made signs for something to eat. They beckoned to
me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some
meat.

"re made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity ofi'ered that
instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we
were lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures,
one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury,
from the mountains towards the sea: at last one of
them began to come nearer our boat than at first I
expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury.
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly within
my reach, I fired, and shot him directly into the head.
Immediately he sank down into the water, but he
rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if he was
struggling for life; and so indeed he was. He im-
mediately made to the shore ; but, between the wound,
which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the
water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; some
of them were ready even to die for fear, and fell down
as dead with the very terror. But when they saw the
creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart
and came to the shore, and began to search for the
creature. I found him by his blood staining the water,
and by the help of a rope, which I flung round him,
and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on
shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard,
spotted and fine to an admirable degree; and the ne-
groes held up their hands with admiration, to think
what it was I killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire,
and the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and ran
up directly to the mountains from whence they came ;
-Jr could I, at that distance, know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of
this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favour from me, which, when I made signs to them
that they might take him, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him; and though
they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of
wood, they took off his skin as readily--nay, much
more readily--than we would have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined,
making as if I would give it them 3 but made signs for
the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provision, which though
I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of my
jars to them, turning its bottom upward, to show that
it was empty, and thatI wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there
came two women, and brought a great vessel, made of
earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun : this they
set dov'n for me as before and I sent Xurv on shore
with my jars, and filled them all three. The women
were as stark naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it-
was, and water ; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without of-
fering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run out
a great length into the sea, at about the distance of
four or five leagues before me, and, the sea being very
cahn, I kept a large offing to make this point: at
length, doubling the point at about two leagues from
the land, I saw plainly land on the other side, to sea-
ward; then I concluded--as it was most certain in-
deed--that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the
islands, called from thence Cape de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should be
taken with a fresh wind, I might neither reach one
nor other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm, when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, "Master,
master, a ship was a sail!" and the foolish boy was
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needsbe some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew
we were gotten far enough out of their reach. I
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not
only the ship, but what she was, viz., that it was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But, when I observed
the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to go any
nearer to the shore, upon which I stretched out to sea
as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, 1f
possible.

\Vith all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their way, but that they would
be gone by before I could make any s1gnal to them;
but:3 afte1 I had c1"o11ded to the utmost, rsand began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
pe1spective glasses, and that it was some European
boat, which they supposed must belong to some ship
that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come
up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had my pa-
tron's ancient on boa1d, I made a waft of it to then:
for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which
thev saw, - for they told me they saw the smoke, though
they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals, they
very kindly brought to and lav by for me; and 1n
about tlnee hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I 11 as, 1n Portuguese, and 1n
Spanish, and 1n F1ench: but I understood none of
them, but at last a Scots sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I ans11 e1 ed him, and I told him I was
an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of
slavery f1o1n the Moms, at Sallee.'Il1cn they bade
me come 011 boaid, and 1"e1y kindly took me in, and
all my goods.

It was an 1ne1p1ess1ble joy to me, that any one will
believe, that I was th is delivered, as I esteemed it,
from such a mise1able and almost hopeless condition
as I 11as in. I immediately offered all I had to the

captain of the shin, as a 1etu1n for my deli1'e1ance;
but he generously told me he would take nothing f1 om
me, but that all I had should be de111' ered safeo to me
when I came to the B1azils. 'For,'s says he, ' I have

saved you1 life on no other terms than as I would be

glad to be saved m1';self and it may, one time or
othe1, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.

Besides,' says he,' when I carry you to the Brazils,
' ..0 great a 11' a1 from 1"ou1 own country, if I should
take from you what httle 1011 have, you will be starved
there and then I onl1 take an a1 that life I have given.
No, no,' says he, 'Signor Inglese (Mr. Englishman},

I will carry you thither in charity, and these things j
will help you to buy your subsistence there, and your ;

passage home again.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was '

just in the performance to a tittle ; for he ordered the
seamen that none should offer to touch anything I
had : then he took everything into his own possession,
and gave me back an exact Inventory of them, that I
might have them again, even so much as my three
earthern jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it. I told
him he had been so generous to me in everything, that
I could not offer to make any price of the boat, but
left it entirely to him; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of his hand to pay me 80 pieces
of eight for it at Brazil, and when it came there, if
any one offered to give more, he would make it up.
He offered me also (50 pieces of eight more for my
boy, Xury, which I was loath to take ; not that I was
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted
me so faithfully in procuring my own. However, when
I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned
Christian. Upon this, Xury saying he was willing to
go to him, I let the captain have him.

. We had a very good voya e to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay te Todos dos Santos, or all Saints
Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was
once more delivered from the most miserable of . all
conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I
was to consider.1'0 3I>.\' 0N CRUSOE.

93

The 21110101 treatment the captain gave me I can
new-11 enough remember: he would take nothing of
me for my passage gave me '21) ducats for the leo-
11"21111s skin. and ~11) for the lions skin which I hadin
the neat . tand caused evervthing I had in the $111 11 to
be pm 1:11 -tually delivered to me ; and what I w as 11 illing
to sell he bought. such as thee case. of bottles, two of
my guns and a niece of the lump of bees -\1 ax for I
had 11.111111 candles of the rest: in a word 1 made about
221111111 es of eight of: 1.11 my ca1go; and with this
st01 11 l 1 '11111 on shoie 1n the Brazils.

I 1111-1 not been 10111.1 he1e. but, heme recommended
to the 1111: use of 11 good. honest 111an.likehin1self \\ ho
11111111 1111 in- genie. as thev call it-- that IS. a plantation
111111 a sugar- house--I lived with him some time; and
aeqnai: 111111111x'self by that me '1,ns with the 11111111111' of
111111- phnting and making of sugar: and seeing how
well the planters lix' ed and how theyg <<rcx rich sud-
denly.1 1esolv ed it I could get licence: to settle there
I would turn plantei among them ; resolving, 111 the.
meantime. to find out some way to get my money
which I had left in London remitted to me. To this
purpose. getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I
purcna <11 11 as much land that was uncured as my money
would 1911011, and formed a plan for myplantation and
settlement. and such a one as might be suitable to the
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from ling-
land.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of lCnglish narents. whose name was Wells, and in
much such circumstances as I was. I call him neigh-
bour, because his plantation lay next to mine, and we
went on very sociably together; my stock was but
low. as well as his. and we rather planted for food than
anything else, for about two years. However, we be-
gan1 to increase, and our land began to come into order,
so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and
made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes in the year to come: but we both wanted
help; and now I found, more than before, I had done
wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas ! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on.
I had gotten into an employment quite remote to my
genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in,
and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into
the very middle station, or upper degree of low life,
which my father advised me to before, and which, if I
resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at
home, and never fatigued myself in the world, as I
have done: and I used often to say to myself, I could
have done this as well in England, among my friends,
as have gone 5,000 miles off to do it, among strangers
and savaoes in a wilderness, and at such a distance as
never to hear from any part of the world that had the
least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work to be
done, but by the labour of my hands; and I used to
say, I live just like a man cast away upon some deso-
late island, that had nobody there but himself. But
how just has it been, and how should all men reflect,
that when they compare their present condition with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to
make the exchange, and be convinced of their former
felicity, by their experience! I say, how just has it
been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on in an
island of mere desolation should be my lot, who had so
often unjustly compared it with the life which I that.

E
led; in which. had I continued, I had, in all probabi-
lity, been exceedingly prosperous and rich 1

I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea. went back ;
for the ship remained there, in providing her loading,
and preparing for her voyage, near three months;
when telling him what little stock I had left. behind
me in London, he gave me his friendly and sincere
advice :----' Signor Inglcsc.' says he, (for so he always
called me), 'if you will give me letters, and a procu-
ration here in form to me, with orders to the person
who has your money in London, to send your effects
to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, andin
such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring
you the produce of them, God willing, at my return;
but, since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have you give orders for 1001. ster-
ling, which, you say, is half your stock, and let the
hazard he run for the first; so that if it come safe, you
may order the rest the same wa '; and if it miscarry,
you have the other half to have recourse to for your
supply.'

This was such wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not. but be convinced it was the
best course I could take; so I accordingly prepared
letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain,
as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the huma-
nity of his behaviour, and what condition I was now
in, with all other necessary directions for my supply;
and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he ound
means, by some of the English merchants there, tc
send over, not the order only, but a full account of
my story, to a merchant in London, who presented it
effectually to her; whereupon she not only delivered
the money, but out of her own pocket sent the For
tuguese captain a very handsome present for his huma
nity and charity to me.

The 'merchant in London vested this 100l. in Eng-
lish goods, such as the captain had written for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them
all safe to me to the Brazils ; among which, without
my directions (for I was too young in my business to
think of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of
tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for my planta-
tion, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, I was surprised with the joy of it 5 and my
good steward, the captain, had laid out the SI. which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to
pin'chase and bring me over a servant, under bond for
six years' service, and would not accept of any consi-
deration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all; but my goods being all Eng-
lish manufactures, such as cloth, stuff, baize and
things particularly valuable and desirable in the coun-
try, 1. found means to sell them to a great advantage;
so that I may say, I had more than four times the
va.ue of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond
my poor neighbour--I mean in the advancement of
my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bou ht me
a Negro slave, and a European servant also: mean
another besides that which the captain brought me
from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with

me. I went on the next year with great success in my
E 2
plantation; I raised fifty 01 eat rolls of tobacco on my
own ground, more than I had disposed of for necessa-
ries among my neighbours; and these fifty rolls being
each of above lOUlbs. 11' eight, 11' ere 11' ell cured, and
laid b1' against the 1'etu1n oi the fleet from Lisbon.
And 11011', increasing in business and 11ealth, my head
began to be full of pioiects and undertakings be1ond
my re each--such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the
best heads in business.

Had I continued in the station I was 11011 in, I had
room for all the happy tl. ings to have yet bet alien me,
for 11hich my father so ea1nestly recommended a quiet,
retired life, and 11 Inch he had so sensibly described
the middle station of life to be full of; but other things
attended me, and I 11 as still to be tlie wilful agent 0t
all n11-'011n miseries: and particular'ly to increase my
fault, and double the reflections upon my self, which,
in my future sorrows. I should have leisiue to make.
All these miscaniages 11 e11. procured by 1111' apparent
obstinate adhering to 1111' foolish inclination 01 1111111131-
ing abroad, and pursuing that inclination. in contra-
diction to the clearest 1' 1e11 s of doing m1-se1t good in a
fair and plain pursuit of those prospects. and those
measures of life, 11hich I.\ature and Providence con-
curred to present me 111th. and to make my duty

As I had once done thus in breaking a11'11 fiom m1
parents, so I could not be content no1', - but [must go
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my ne11 plantation, 01111 to pm'sue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted, and thus I cast my self
down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent
with life and a state of health in the world.

To come, then, by just degrees to the paiticulars of
this part of my story --:Y 01; may suppose that, having
now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon my planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fel-
low-planters, as well as among the merchants of St.
Salvadore, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
course among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such
as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like, not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, ele-
phants' teeth, &c., but Negroes for the service of the
Brazils, in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads; but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientoes,
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and
engroswd in the public stock, so that few Negroes
were bought, and those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company one day with some
merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and talk-
ing of those things very earnestly, three of them came
to me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed of with
them the last night, and they came to make a secret
proposal to me; and, after enjoining on me secrecy,
they told me that the * had a mind to fit out a ship to
go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as
I, and were straitened for nothing so much as servants;
that as it was a trade that could not be carried on, be-
cause they could not publicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to make but one
voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and

E 3
divide them among their own plantations: and, in a
word, the question was, whether I would go their
supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I
should have my equal share of the Negroes. without
providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair preposal. it must he confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not had a settlement
and plantation of his own too look after. which was in
a fair way of coming to he very considerable. and with
a good stock upon it. But for me, who was thus esta-
blished, and had nothing to do but to go on as I had
begun for three or four years more, and to have sent.
for the other 1001. from England, and V-lm. in that
time, and with that little addition. could scarce have
failed of being worthy 3.000]. or 4,000]. sterling. and
that increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage.
was the. most preposterous thing that ever man, in
such circumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer. could
no more resist the ofi'er. than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost upon me. In a word. I told them I would go
with all my heart, if they would undertake to look
after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose
of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This
they all engaged to do. and entered into writings, or
covenants to do so ; and I made a formal will, dispos-
ing of my plantation and efi'ects in case of my death--
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life,
as before, my universal heir, but obhging him to dis-

ose of my effects as I had directed in my will; one-
alf of the produce being to himself, and the other to
be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible cautiou to preserve my
efl'ects, and to keep up my plantation. Had I used
half as much prudence to have looked into my own in-
terest, and have made a jud ent of what I ought to
have done, and not to have one, I had certainly never
gone away from so prosperous an undertaking; leaving
all the probable views of a thriving circumstance, and
gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its com-
mon hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had to
espcct particular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the die-
tates of my fancy, rather than my reason; and, ac-
cordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo fur-
nished, and all things done as my agreement by my
partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil
hour again, the lst of September, 1659, being the
same day eight years that I went from my father and
mother at 111111 in order to act the rebel to their au-
thority, and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six
guns and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods,
except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the
Negroes; such as beads, bits of glass, shells. and odd
trifles--especially little looking-glasses, knives, scis-
sors, hatchcts and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with a de-
Sign to stretch over for the African coast, when they
came into about ten or twelve degrees of northern la>>
titude, which, it seems, was the manner of their course
in those days. We had very good weather, only ex-
cessively hot all the way u on our own coast, till we
came to the height of ape St. Augustino, from
whence, keeping farther off at sea, we lost sight of
land, and steered as if we were bound for the sle of
Fernand de Norouba; holding our course N. E. by N.,
and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we
assed the line in about t11el1e days' time, and were,
by our last observation, in 7 degrees, 22 minutes,
northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or hu1ri-
cane, took 11s quite out of our knowledge; it began
from the south- east, came: .bout to the north-west, and
then settled into the north- east--from whence it blew
in such a teriible manne1, that for twelve days toge-
ther,11'e could do nothing but drive, and, scudding
1111' a1' before 1t, let it ca1'r1' 11s 11he1e1'er fate, and the
fury of the 111nds. directed: and during these t11el1'c
da1's, Inecd not say that I expected every day to be
511' allowed up; 1101' 1. id 11111 in the ship expect to save
their lives

In this distress we had. besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men died of the calenturc. and one
man and the bo1'11'as'1ed overboard. About the twelfth
day, the weather abatinef ' little. the master made an
observation as 11 ell as he could. and found that he was
in about 11 degrees of north latitude, but that he was
' 2 degrees of lousritud. diii'erence 11 est from Cape St
Augustino: so that he tound he had gotten upon the
coast of Guiana, 01 the noith part of Biazil. 1101 01111
the ri1'er-e\n1 7.011s. to11'a1ds that of the 1i1're 01'0-
noque, 00111111 11l1' calle l the neat 1'11 1'1" and now he
began to consult 111th me what. com so he should t: 1ke. '
for the ship 11asleak1', and 1'e1'1 much disabled and
he 11' as for troino' directly back to the coast of lnazil.

I 11' as positively aoainst that; and looking over the
charts of the sea-coast of America 111th him, 11c con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for 11s to have
recourse to, till 11'ec came within the circle of the. Ca-
ribee Islands, and. the1efo1e. ICSOl\'C(l to stand a11 av
for Barbadoes, which, by keeping of? at sea, to avoid
the indiaueht of the Bay 01 Gulf of Mexico, we might
very as". 11' pu'form, as we hoped, in about fifteen day's
sail; 11111111115 we could not possibly make our voyageRoam-sex causes ~15

to the coast of Africa, without some assistance, both to
our ship, and to ourselves. '

With this design, we changed our course, and steered
away "N. 'W. by W., in order to reach some of our
English islands, where I hoped for relief; but our
voyage was otherwise determined; for being in the
latitude of 12 degrees, 18 minutes, a second storm
came upon us, which carried us away with the same
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very
way of all human commerce, that, had all our lives
been saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of
being devoured by savages, than ever returning to our
own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard.
one of our men, early one morning, cried out, ' Land!'
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out
in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were,
but the ship struck upon a sand, and, in a moment,
he: motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we should all have
perished immediately; and we were even driven into
close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and
spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing
where we were, or u on what land it was we were
driven--whether an is and or the main, whether inha-
bited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind
was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind
by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately about.
In a. word, we sat looking one upon another, and ex-
Peciilng death every moment, and every man acting
accordingly, as preparing for another world; for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this: that
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we
had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, the ship
did not break yet, and that the master said the wind
began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the Wind did a little
abate, yet the ship, having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had no-
thing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as
we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the
storm ; but she was first staved by dashing avainst
the ship's rudder, and, in the next place, she broke
away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea; so
there was no hope for her. We had another boat on
board; but how to get her off into the sea, was a doubt-
ful thing. However, there was no room to debate, for
we fancied the ship would break in pieces every
minute; and some told us she was actually broken
already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the boat, and, with the help of the rest of the men,
they got her flung over the ship's side ; and getting all
into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven
in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea: for
though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea
went dreadfully high upon the shore, and might well
be called, ' Der wild zee,' as the Dutch call the sea in
a. storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we
all saw plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat
could not escape, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. As to making sail, we had none; nor, if
we had, could we have done anything with it; so we
worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy
hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew,
that when the boat came near the shore, she would be
dashed in a thousand pieces by the beach of the sea.
However, we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us towards the
shore, we hastened our destruction with our own
hands, pulling, as well as we could, towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not: the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was,
if we happen to get into some bay or gulf, or the
mouth of some river, where by great chance, we might
have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land,
and perhaps made smooth water. But there was no-
thing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than
the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astem of us, and plainly bade us
expect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with
such a fury, that it overset the boat at once, and,
separating us as well from the boat as from one another,
gave us not time hardly to say, ' O God 1' for we

were all swallowed upfn a moment
Nothing can descri e the confusion of thought which

I felt when I sunk into the water; for thouOh I swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myseliP from the
waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having
driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on to-
wards the shore, and having spent itself, went back,
and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. I had so much presence of .
mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer
the mam land than I expected, I got upon my feet,
and endeavoured to make on towards the land, as fast
as I could, before another wave should return, and
take me up again. But I soon found it was impos sible :-
to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high
as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy, whicha I
had no means or strength to contend 111th my busi-
ness 11as, to hold m1'b1eath, and 1aise myself upon
the water, if I could, and so, by swimming, to p1e-
serve my breathing, and pilot m1 self to11' a1 ds the shore,
if possible; my greatest concern now being, that the
wave, as it would carry me a great 11a1't6wa1ds the
shore when it came 011, might not ca1'11 me back again
with it, 11 hen it gave bac k towards the sea.

The wave then came upon me again buried m at
once twenty or thirty feet deep 1n its own body, and
I could feel myself carried, with a mighty force and
swiftness, towards the shore ave11r great way; but I
held my breath, and assisted my self to swim still for-
ward 11ith all my might. I 11 as ready to burst with
holding my breath, 11 hen, as I felt my self 1ising u
so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and h n
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though
it was not two seconds of time that I could keep my-
self so, 1et it relieved me greatly--gave me breath
and new courage. I was co1ered again 111th water a
good while, but not so long but I Cheld it out; and
finding the water had spent itself, and began to return,
I struck forward against the return of the waves, and
felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few
moments to recover breath, and till the 11 ate1 went
from me, and then I took to my heels. and ran with
what strength I had, farther towaids the sl1o1e. But
neither would this delive1 me from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again, and twice
more I was lifted up by the waves, and carded for-
wards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal

to me , for the sea having hurried me slang as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force that it left me senseless,
and, indeed, helpless, as to my own deliverance; for
the blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath,
as it were, quite out of my body; and had it retiu-ned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water; but I recovered a little before the return of
the waves, and, seeing I should be covered again with
the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the
rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave
went back. Now, as the waves were not so high as
at first, being near land, I held my hold till the wave
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it
went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to
carry me away ; and the next run I took, I got to the
main land, where, to my great comfort, I clambered
up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the
grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of
the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved, in a
case wherein there was, some minutes before, scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to express
to the life, what the ecstasies and transports of the
soul are when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the
grave : and I do not wonder now at that custom, viz.,
that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his
neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned off, and
has a reprieve brought to him; I say, I do not wonder
that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood
that very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise
may not drive the animal spirits from the heart, and
overwhelm him :--

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
F
50 ROBINSON cnusom.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and mv whole being, as I might say, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe--reflect-
ing upon all my comrades that were drowned, and
that there should not he one soul saved but myself;
for, as for them, I never saw them afterward, nor any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and
two shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly
see it--it lay so far off ; and considered, Lord! how
was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaeed my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look around me, to see
what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be
done, and I soon found my comforts abate, and that
in a word I had a dreadful deliverance : for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor anything, either to eat
or drink, to comfort me ; neither did I see any pros-
pect before mc. but that of perishing with hunger, or
being devoured by wild beasts: and that which was
particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature, for my sustenance,
.or to defend myself against any other creature that
might desire to kill me for their". In a word, I had
nothing about me but a knife, 3. tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box ; this was all my provision, and
this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that, for a
while. I ran about like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what
would be my lot, if there were any ravenous beasts in
that country, seeing at night they always come abroad
for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next day what death I
should die; for, as yet, I saw no prospect of life. I
walked about a furlong from the shore, to see ifI could
find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great
joy ; and having drunk, and ut a little tobacco in my
mouth, to prevent hunger, went to the tree, and
getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so as
that, if I should sleep, I might not fall; and having,
cut me a short stick. like a truncheon, for my defence,
I took up my leaving; and having been excessively
fatigued, I fell asleep, and slept as comfortably as I
believe few could have done in my condition ; and found
myself the more refreshed with it than I think I ever
was on such an occasion. '

When 1 waked, it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before ; but that which surprised me most
was, that the ship was lifted ofl', in the night, from the
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I first
mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the dash-
ing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that,
at least, I might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again; and the first thing I found
was the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
thrown her upon the land, about two miles on my right
hand. Iwalked as far as I could upon the shore, to
got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water between
me and the boat, which was about half a mile broad;
so I came back for the present, being more intent
upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find some-
thing for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm ; and
the tide ebbcd so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship 3 and here I found a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently that if we
had kept on board we had all been safe, that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so
miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company, as I now was. This forced tears from
my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that,
I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled
off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity,
and took the water; but when I came to the ship, my
difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board;
for as she lay aground, and high out of the water,
there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I
swam round her twice, and the second time Iespied
a small piece of rope, which I wondered I did not see
at first, hang down by the fore chains, so low as that
with great difficulty I got hold of it, and, by the help
of that rope, got up in the forceastle of the ship. Here
I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal
of water in he ' hold. but that she lay so on the side of
a bank of hard sand or rather earth, that her stern
lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost
to the water; by this means all her quarter was free,
and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may be
sure my first work was to search and to see what was
spoiled and what was free; and first I found that all
the ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the '
water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to
the bread-room, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and
ate it as I went about other things, for I had no time
to lose. I also found some rum in the reat cabin, of
which I took a large dram, and which had indeed
need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had ; and this extremity roused my application.
We had several spare yards, and two large squares of
wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the ship _: I re-
solved to fall to work with these, and flung as many of
them overboard as I could manage for their weight;
tying every one with a rope, that they might not
drive away. When this was done, I went down the
ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them
fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the
form of a raft; and laying two or three short pieces
of plank crossways, I found I could walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great weight
the pieces being too light: so I went too work with a
carpenter's saw, I cut a spare top-mast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal
of labour and pains; but the hope of furnishing my-
self with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond
what I should have been able to have done upon
another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea-
sonable weight. My next care was what to load it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surface of the sea : but I was not long considerino-
this; I first laid all the planks or boards upon it I
could get, and having considered well what I most
wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests, which I
had broken open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft. The first of these I filled with pro-
vismns, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five
pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much.
upon, and a little remainder of European corn,
which had been laid by for some fowls which we
had brought to sea with us; but the fowls were
killed: there had been some barley and wheat

31*
together, but to 1111' great disappointment, I found
afterward that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all.
As for 11qu01s. I found se1' e1 ra1 cases of bottles belong-
ing to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters,
anod 111 all above five 01' six gallons of arraek. ' these I
stowed by themselves, there being no need to put
them into the chest, nor any room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow,
though very calm. and I had the mortification to see
my coat, slii1t, and11'us1co'1t11'hieh I had left on shore
upon the sand, s11 1111 11111' , as 101' my b1 eechcs, which
were onl_1 linen and open-knee' 11, I swam 011 board 111
them and my stockings. However, this put me upon
rummaging for clothes, of Much I found enough, but
took no more than I 11 anted for piesent use, for I had
other things which 1111' 111' e was 1 10m upon , as 111 st
tsools to work with 011 shore, and it 11 as after long

carching I found out the carpenter's chest, which
was indeed a very usetul p1ize to me. and much more
valuable than a ship- loading of gold would have. been
at that time. I got it 101111 to 1111' raft even whole as
it was, without loosing time to look into it, for I knew
in general what it contained.

My next care 11 as 101' some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fouling-pieces :"1 the great
cabin, and two pistols. - these I seemed first, 111th some
pow der-horns, a sun 1111 mg of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I knew them 11' are three barrels of powder in
the ship, but kn cw not 11 here our gunner had stowed
them, but 111th much see: 11'11 I ' ound them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water . those two I
got to 1111' raft with the arms. 1nd now I thought
n11self p1ett1' well 11' eighted, and began to think how I.
sh011ldget to sho1e with them, ha1 1110' neither sail,
oa1',o1":'1111'l1'1111', and the 1e: 1st eapful of wind would

have 0\ Cl'SCt all NOV 1111' iga 11011.
I had three encouragements. First, a smooth and
calm sea. Secondly, the tide rising and setting
into the shore. Thirdly, what little wind there was,
blew me. towards the land. And thus, having found
two or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and
besides the tools which were in the chest, I found two
saws, an ax and a hammer, and with this cargo I put
to sea. For a mile, or thereabout, my raft went very
well, only that I found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before, by which I perceived
there was some indraught of the water, and conse-
quently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land
with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was ; there appeared before me
a little opening of the land. I found a strong current
of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I
could, to keep in the middle of the stream. But here
I had liked to have suffered a second shipwreck, which
if I had, I think verily would have broken my heart;
for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft run aground,
at one end of it, upon ashoal not being aground; at the
other end. it wanted but a little that my cargo had
slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and so
fallen into the water : I did my utmost by setting
my back against the chests, to keep them in their
places. but could not thrust off the raft with all my
strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I
was in. but, holding up the chests with all my might,
stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon
a level; and a little after, the water still rising, my
raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the car I
had, into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at
length found myself in the mouth of a little river, with
land on both sides, anda strong current of tide running56 no

up. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get
to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up '
the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea and

therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as
I could.

 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, 1
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reach-
ing ound with my oar, I could thrust her directly in;
but ere I had liked to have dipped all my cargo in the
sea sin; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to
say, s oping, there was no place to land, but where
one end of the float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high,
and the other sink lower, as before, that it would en-
danger my cargo again. All that I could do, was to
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft
with my oar, like an anchor, to hold the side of it
fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I
expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough (for my raft drew
about a foot of water), I thrust her upon that flat
piece of ground, and there fastened and moored her,
by sticking my two broken cars into the ground, one
on one side near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end; and thus I ebbed away and
left all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the con-
tinent or on an island; whether inhabited or not in-
habited; whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from
it, northward, I took out one of the fowling-pieces,
and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and, thus
armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of that
hill, where, after I had with great labour and difficulty
got up, I immediately saw my fate, to my great
affliction : viz. that I was in an island, environed every
way with the sea; no land to be seen, except some
rocks, which lay a great way off, and two small islands
lesstthan this, which lay about three leagues to the
"'88 .

I found also that the island that I was in was barren
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, ex-
cept by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw none:
yetI saw abundance of -1111's,1 but kne" not then kinds,
neither, when I 12.111311 them, could I tell 11 11:11 was
fit for food, and 1111:1t not. At 1111' coming back I
shot at a great bi1'1,1 which I sa11 sitting 1111011 :1 tree,
on the side of a lame 1100111 belie1e it was the 111st
gun that had been fi1cd there, since the creation of
the world. I had no sooner fired, but fiom all
p'aits of the 110011 there arose an cxt1a01 11111'111 number
of fouls, of man1 sorts, making a confused screaming
and crying, e1'er1 one according to his usual note;
but not one of them of any kind:3 that I k11e11'.-\s for
the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of 11:111 k,
its colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons
01 claws more than common; its flesh was carrion,
and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, Icame back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring 1n1 cargo 011 shore,
which took me up the 10st of the day. \1 hat to do
with my self at night, I kne11 not, nor indeed where to
rest for I was afraid to lie down on the g10u11d,not
knowing but what some wild beast might devour me,
thoughI afterw'mds found there was rea111 no need
of those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricadocd myself
round with the chests and boards that I 11:111 b10111rl1t
on shore, and made a kind of a but for that night's
lodging, as for food, I 1'et saw not which 1111' to sup-
ply Dmyself, except that I had seen two or th1ee c1ea~
tures, like hares, run out of the wood where I shot
the f-'.o111

I now began to consider thatI might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which 11011111 be useful to
me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and
such other things as might come to hand, and I re-
solved to make another v01 age on board the 1'.csse1 if
possible; and as I knew the first storm that blew
must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to
set all other things apart, till I got every thing out of
the ship that I could get; then I called a council, that
is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take back
the raft, but this appeared impracticable, so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down, and I did so,
only that I stripped before I went from my hut,
h. ving nothing on but a checked shirt, a pair of
linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
sec ond raft; and having had experience of the first I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard;
but yet I brought away several things very useful to
me; as first, in the carpenter's store I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone; all these I secured,
together with several things belonging to the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets and another fowling-
piece, with some small quantity of powder more: a
large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet
lead : but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it
up to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare forc-topsail, hammock,
and some bedding; and with this I loaded my second
raft, and brought them also safe on shore, to my very
great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore ; but when I came back, I found
no Sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a
Wild cat upon one of the chests, which when I came
toward it ran away to a little distance, and then stood
still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be ac~
quainted with me. I presented my gun at her; but
as she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though by the
way I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great. However I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled it, and ate it, and looked as if
pleased for more, but I thanked her, and could spare
no more ; so she marched ofi'.

Iaving got my second cargo on shore(though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring them
by parcels, for they were too heavy, being large

asks) I went to work to make a little tent with the
sail and some poles which I cut for the purpose ; and.
into this tent 1 brought everything that I knew would
spoil, either with rain or sun: and I piled all the
empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from.
man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set
up on one end without, and spreading one of the beds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my
head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed, for
the first time, and slept very quietly all night, being
very weary and heavy; for the night before I had
slept little, and laboured very hard all day, as well
ti: fetch those things from the ship as to get them on
s ore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man ; but I was
not satisfied still, for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out
of her that I could : so every day at low water I went
on board, and brought away something or other. But...__--
particularly the third time I went, I brought away so
much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small
ropes, and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of
spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon oc-
casion, and a barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word,
I brought away all the sails first and last, only that I
was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at
a time as I could: for they were no more useful to
me for sails, but as mere canvas only.

But that which comforted me more still, was that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voy-
ages as these, and thought I had nothing more to ex-
pect from the ship that was worth my meddling with,
I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread,
three large runlets of rum or spirits, a box of sugar,
and a barrel of fine flour: this was surprising to me,
because I had given over expecting any more pro-
visions, except what was spoiled by the water. I
soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapt
it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I
cut out ; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore
also, though at several times.

The next day I made another voyage: and now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable, and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables ; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the
iron-work I could get ; and having cut down the sprit-
sail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and everything I
could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those
heavy goods and came away. But my good luck be-
gan to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy, and so
overladen, that after I had entered the little cove,
where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset,

and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for

G6'2 nomxsox 0111:5011.

myself it 11 as no great. '1 111111. for I was near the shore
h1it as to 1111' ea11_' o it 1111s :1 great part of it lost, es-
peciall1' the iron. which I expected 11' 011111 have been of
great use to 11111. I11111111' 111'. when the tide was out,

got most of the pieeesh 111 cable ashore. and some of
the iron. 11111111111 with 1111110 labour. forI was fain
:0 dip 1111 it into 11111 11.1.1.1r. :1 work which tat igued me

very much. \tter this 1111111t 111' 011 11:11' 011 board,
..1111 brought away what 1 11111111 get.

I 111111 been 11011 thirteen 11:11s 011 shore. and 111111 been
eleven times on board the ship. in which time I had
brought awav all 111111111111. pair of hands 11011111
well be supposed 11ap:1 117111111 to bring. thoughI believe
verily. 111111 the calin whether held, I should have
brought aw a1' the 11 hoe sl1i.1 piece 111' piece. but pre-
paring the t11elt'. 11 time to go on board. I found the
wind began to rise: however. at low water, I 11 cut
011 board _: and t11011:.l1 I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so efi'eetualh . as that nothing more could-
be found. vet I discovered a locker, with drawers in it.
in one of which I 10111111 11111, or three razors, and one
pair of large seissers.111111 ten or a dozen 110011 kni1cs
and 1111's: in another. I 1.1111111 about thirty -six pounds
value in mone1 . some 1' uropean coin. some Brazil,
some pieces of eigh some 1.110111 some silver.

\\ hen I was gotten 111111111 to 1111' little tent. I lay
with all 1n1-'11e111tl1 about me 1er1-' secure : it blew
very hard all that night: and in the morning 11 hen I
looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen. I
was :1 little surprised. but recovering myself with this
satisfactory reflection; viz. that I had lost no time, nor
abated an1 diligence. to get everything out of her
that could be useful to me::111d that indeed there was
little left 1n her that I was able to bring a1va1',if I had
had more time. I now gave. over an}r more thought
of the ship, or of any thing.11 of her, except what might
drive on share from her wreck, as indeed divers
pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of
small use to me.

Some days after this, after I had been on board the
ship, and had got all I could out of her, I could not
forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and
looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship: then
fancy, at a vast distance, spied a sail; please my-
self with the hOpcs of it; and then, after looking
steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit
down and weep ' like a child, and thus increase my
misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things. in some meao
sure, and having settled my household stuff and habi-
tation, made me a table and a chair, and all as hand-
some about me as I could, I began, I say, to keep a
journal, of which I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will be told all these particulars over
again), as long as it lasted; for at last having no more
ink, I was forced to leave it off.

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER. 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in
the oiling, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island, which I called the Island of Despair, all the
rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstance I was brought to,--viz. I had
neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to PS1
to, and in despair of any relief, saw nothing but deat
before me, either that I should be devoured by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for
want of food. At the approach of night, I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly,
though it rained all night.

October 1. In the morningI saw, to my great sur-
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island, which,
as it was some comfort on the one hand (for seeing her
sit upright, and not broken in pieces, I hoped, if the
wind abated, I might get on board, and get some food
and necessaries out of her for my relief), so, on the
other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who,I imagined, if we had all stayed on
board, might have saved the ship, or at least that they
would not have been all drowned, as they were; and
that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps have
built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship, to have
carried us to some other part of the world. I spent
great part of this day in perplexing myself on these
things; but at. length, seeing the ship almost drv', I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam
on board. This day also continued raining, though'
with no wind at all.

From the lst of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in making several voyages to get
all I could out of the ship, which Ibrought on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in
these days, though with some intervals of fair wea-
ther ; but, it seems, this was the rainy season.

October :24. I ovcrset my raft, and all the goods I
had got upon it; and being in shoal water, and the
things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them
when the tide was out.

October 25. It rained all maht, and all day, with
some gusts of wind. during which time the ship broke
in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cover-
ing and securing the goods which I saved, that the
rain might not spoil them.

October '26. I walked about the shore almost all
day to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly
concerned to secure myself from any attack, in the
night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards night
I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked
out a semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved
to strengthen with a work, or wall, or fortification,
made of double piles, lined within with cable, and
without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in

carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard.
The 3lst, in the morning, I went out into the is-
land with my gun, to see for some food, and discover
the country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid
followed me home, which I afterwards killed also, be-
cause it would not feed. '

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could, with stakes, driven in to swing my hammock
upon.

November :2. I set up all my chests and boards,
and the pieces of timber which made my 'rafts, and
with them formed a fence round me, a little within
the place I had marked out for my fortification.

November 3. I went out with my gun, and killed
two fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In
the afternoon, I went to work to make me a table.

November 4. This morning I began to order my
times of work, of going out with my gun, time of
sleep, and time of diversionwviz. every morning I

G3
walked out with my gun, for two or three hours, if it
did not rain; then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then eat what Ihad to live on: and
from twelve to two, I lay down to sleep, the weather
being excessively hot, and then in the evening to work
again. The working part of this day and the next
were wholly employed in making my table, for I was
yet but a very sorry workman, though time and ne-
cessity made me a complete natural mechanic soon
after, as I believe it would do any one else.

November 5. This day I went abroad with my gun
and my dog, and killed a wildcat; her skin pretty
soft, but her tlesh good for nothing. Every creature
I killed, I took off the skins and preserved them.
Coming back. by the seashore,I saw many sorts of
sea-fowls which I did not understand; but was sur-
prised, and almost frighted, with two or three turtles,
which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what
they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that
time.

November 6. After my morning walk, I went to
work with my table again, and finishing it, though not
to my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.

November 7. Now it began to be settled fair wea-
ther. The 7th. 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th,
(for the 11th was Sunday, according to my reckon-
ing), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and, with
much ado, brought it to a tolerable shape, but never
to please me; and even in the making I pulled it to
pieces several times. Note, I soon neglected keeping
my Sundays ; for omitting my mark for them on my
post, I forgot which was which.

November 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
me exceedingly, and cooled the earth : but it was ac-
companied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.

November l4, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds at most, of powder;
and so putting the owder in, I stowed it in places as
secure and remote rom one another as possible. On
one of these three days I killed a large bird that was
good to eat, but I knew not what to call it.

November 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock, to make room for my further con-
vcniency. Note, three things I wanted exceedingly
for this work; viz. a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-
barrow or basket: so I dcsistcd from my work, and
began to consider how to supply that want, and make
me some tools. As for the pick-axe, I made use of
the iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy; but the next thing was a shovel or spade;
this was so absolutely necessary that indeed [could
do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of
one to make I knew not.

November 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which,
in the Brazils they call the iron-tree, for its exceed-
ing hardness: of this with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, ahd brought it home
too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine;
for I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the
form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having
no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me
80 long; however, it served well enough for the uses
which I had occasion to put it to: but never was a
shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long 11
making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a
wheel- barrow: a basket I could not make 113>> any
means, having no such thing as twigs that would bend
to make wicker-"are, 01' at least none yet found out;
and, as to the 11'heel-bar1'011', I fancied I could make
all but the wheel ; but that I had no notion of, neither
did I know how to go about it: besides, I had no
pOSsihle 1vav to make iron gudgeons, for he snindle
01' the axis 01' the 11l1Lel to 11111 in, so 1 gz- 10 over :and,
for 111'1'3111g away the ea1t11 11'11iehI11ug out 01 the
cave, ' 1111a11e me 11 111 1111.1: like a ho1l,11h1Ll the labour-
ers carry mortar in, 11 hen t11e3'se1ve the b1'ie11la1' e1".

'111is 1111s not so di thenlt to me as the 11111111111; the
shovel ; and 3'et this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a 11 heel barrow, took
me up no less than mar 11: '13s . I 111 an, 1111111v s except-
ing 1113 morning1 11' 11111 1111.11 1113' 111n1,11'hieh Iseldoni
failed, and "'1e1'_1 seldom tailed also 01 bringizr: home
something fit to eat.

N01enibe1' :35. My othe1'1vorl1'. having stood still,
because of my 1111111ing these tools, when they were
finished I1vent on; 111111, 11 01'1111111' ev e1"-' (1113' as much
as my strength and time allowed, I \11111t eiehteen
11113s entirely? 1n 1111le1111111' and 1leepenin-11' my mac, that
it n1i11'l1t hold 111v goodso com: nodiouslv.

1\ote, during all this time I 1101'11'ed to 11111110 this
room, 01' eav e, sp-11e11111 s enough to aeeonnnod 1 '21: me as
a warehouse, or 2111211211111, a kitchen, 11 11111121 .g-room,
and a eella' , as 10111 lodgi11'.1',I kept to ti e tent, ex
cept that sometimes in the 11 Lt season of the _1 ear it
rained so hard that I could not keen 1111se11 dry;
which caused me 11tre1'11111'11s to (1111 111' 1111 1111' place
within my pale, with long loles, in the1'111111111 i'atters,m. A 'v n.4,. .\

aonmsox causoa. 69

leaning against the rock, and load them with flags
and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when, on a sudden (it seems I had
made it too large), a great quantity of earth fell down

 

fer the t0p and one side, so much that, in short, it
Jfrlglltened me, and not without reason, for if I had

been "Edel'fit, I had never wanted a grave-digger.
Upon thls dlsaster I had a great deal of work to do
over again: for I had the loose earth to carry out,
and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling
to prop up, so that I might be sure no more woul
come down.

December 11. This day I went to work with it ac-
cordingly, and got two shores or posts, pitched upright
to the top, with two pieces of board across over each
post. This I finished the next day ; and setting more
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part off my house.

December 17. 1" rom this day to the :30th I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts, to hang
every thing up that could be hung up; and now I be-
gan to be in some order within doors.

December 20. Now I carried every thing into the
cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up some
pieces of board, like a dresser, to order my vietuals
upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me.
I also made me another table.

December 24. Much rain all night and all day:
no stirring out.

December 25. Rain all day.

December 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.

December :37. Killed a young goat, and lamed an-
other, so that I caught it, and led it home in a string;
when I got it home I bound and splintered up its leg,
which was broken, and I took such care of it that
it lived, and the leg grew well. and as strong as ever ;
but by nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon
the little green at my door, and would not go away.
This was the first time that I entertained a thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have
food when my powder and shot were all spent.

December :28, 29.. 30. Great beats and no breeze -
so that there was no stirrin abroad, except in the
evening, for food. This time I spent in putting all my
things in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still ; but I went abroad early
and late, with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going farther into the valleys,
which lay to the centre of the island, I found there
were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard
to come at : however I resolved to try if I could not
bring my dog to hunt them down.

January :2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was
mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog, and
he knew his danger too well, for he would not come

.car them.

January 3. I began my fence or wall, which, being
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I re-
solved to make very thick and strong. I was no less
time than from the 3d of January to the 14th of April,
working, finishing, and perfecting this wall, though it
was no more than about twenty-four yards in length
being a half circle, from one place in the rock to an-
other place about eight yards from it, the door of the
cave being in the centre behind it,

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes, weeks together;
but I thought I never should be perfectly secure till
this wall was finished : and it is scarcely credible what
inexpressible labour everything was done with, espe-
cially the bringing piles out of the woods, and drivmg
them into the ground ; for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I per-
suaded myself, that if any pe0ple were to come on
shore there, they'would not perceive anything like a
habitation: and it was very well I did so, as ma1 be
observed hereafter. upon a very rema1kable occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game ever1'da1',11hen the rain permitted me, and
made frequent discov elies in these walks of something
or othe1 to my advantage; particula111 I found a kind
of wild pigeon which build not as 11 ood pigeons in a
tree, but iather as house- -pigeons in the holes of the
rocks: and taking some young ones, I endeavoured to
breed them up tame, and did so, but 11 hen the1 grew
older, they all than $111 a1 11 hich pe1haps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them: 11011 e1 e1, I D'f1equently found their nests, and
got thei1 101mg ones, 11 hich 11 ere 1' e11- good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found my self 11' anting 1n many things, 11 Inch I thought
at first it 11 as impossible for me to make. as indeed as
to some of them it 11 as for instance, I could ne1' e1
make a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or
t11o, as I obse11 e11 before, but I could ne1 e1 a1"-'1i1e at
the capacity of making one by them, though I spent
many 11 eeks about it; I could neithe1 put in the heads,
nor join the sta1' es so true to one anothe1 as to make
them hold 11' ate1: so I gave that 01' e1 also.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles:
so that as soon as it was dark, 11 Inch 11 as generally 111'
seven o'clock I 11 as obliged to go to bed. I remem-
bered the lump of bees-11' ax, with which I made can-
dles in my Afiican adventure, but I had none of that
now the only remedyI had was, that when I had
killed a goat, I saved the tallow, and with a little dish
added a 11ick of some oakum, and made me a lamp: and
this gave me light, though not a clear steady light
like a candle. In the middle of all my labours it hap-
ened, that rummaging my things, I found a little
ag, which, as I hinted before, had been fillei with
com, for the feeding of poultry not for this voyage,
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from
Lisbon : what little remainder of corn had been in the
bag, was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and (lust; and being willing to
have the bag for some other use (I think it was to put
powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning,
or some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of
it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioncd, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of anything, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown anything there; when about a month
after, or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting up on the ground, which I fan-
cied might be some plant I had not seen ; but I was
surprised, and perfectly astonished, when after, a
little longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come
out, which were perfect green barley, of the same
kind as our European, nay as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all; in-
deed I had very few notions of religion in my head,
nor had I entertained any sense of anything that had be-
failcn me, otherwise than as a chance, or as we lightly
say, what pleases God; but now I thought these the
pure productions of Providence for my support.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of
June; and, laying up every com, I resolved to sow
them all again, hoping in time to have some quantit
sufficient to supply me with bread: but it was not 11'
the fourth year that I would allow myself the least
grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or

H
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care, and whose use was of the same kind, or to the'
same purpose ; viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though
I did that also, after some time. But to return to my
puma}.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months,
to get my wall done ; and, the 14th of April, I closed
it up contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over
the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on
the outside of my habitation.

April 16. I finished the ladder: so I went up with
the ladder to the top and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the. outside. This was a complete
enclosure 3:. me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.

May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something he on the
shore, bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask ;
when I came to it I found a small barrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were
driven on shore by a hurricane; and looking towards
the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out
of the water than it used to do. I examined the bar-
rel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was
a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and
the powder was cakcd as hard as a stone ; however, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went on
upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of the
ship, to look for H.101 9.

When I came down '0 the ship, 1 found it strangely
removed: the forecastle, which lay before burie in

the sand, was heaved up at least six feet deg and the
stern, which was broken to pieces, and parted from
the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I had left
rummaging of her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast
on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on that
side next the stern, and whereas there was a great place
of water before, so that I could not come within a
quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I
could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out.
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded
it must be done by the earthquake, a violent shock of
which I had felt some days previously; and as by this
violence the ship was more broken upon than formerly,
so many things came daily on shore, which the sea
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
by degrees to the land.

Having resolved to pull every thing to pieces that 1
could of the ship, concluding that every thing I could
get from her would be of some use or other to me--

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a iece of a
beam through, which I thouo-ht held some 0 the upper
part, or, quarter-deck, together: and when I had cut
it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could,
from the side which lay highest : but the tide coming
in I was obliged to give over for that time.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbcd out: and by this time, I had gotten timber
and plank, and iron work enou h to have built a good
boat, if I had known how; an also I got at several
pieces, near one hundred weight of sheet-lead.

June 16. Going down on the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had seen,
which, it seems was only my misfortune, not any
defect of the place, or scarcity; for had I happened
to be on the other side of the island, I might have had
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards :
but, perhaps, had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that
time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted
in my life, having had no flesh but of goats and fowls,
since I landed in this horrible place.

June 18. Rained all the day, so that I staid within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.

June 20. i'x'o rest all night, violent pains in the head,
and feverish.

June :31. Very ill, frightened almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help. Pravcd to God, for the first time since the
storm off Hull ; but scarce knew what I said, or why :
my thoughts being all confused.

June 2:3. A little better ; but under dreadful ap-
prchensions of sickness.

June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-aceh.

June 24. Much better.

June 225. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot with faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better ; and having no victuals to eat
took my gun, but found myself very weak: however
I killed a she-goat, and, with much difl'iculty, got it
home, and broiled some of it, and ate it: I would fain
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed
all day and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to
perish for thirst, but so weak, I had not strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink; prayed
to God again, but was light-headed; and when I was
not I was so ignorant, that I knew not what to say;
only I lay and cried, ' Lord, look upon me! Lord,
pity me! Lord have mercy upon me 1' I su pose

did nothing else for two or three hours, till t e fit
wearing off , I fell asleep, and did not awake till far in
the night. When I waked, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak and exceedingly thirsty : however,
as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was
forced to lie till morning and went to sleep again.

The good advice of my father now came to m.-
mind, and presently his prediction, which I mentioned
at the beginning of this story; viz. That, if I did
take this foolish step, God, would not bless me, and I
should have leisure hereafter to reflect u on having
neglected his counsel, when there might e none to
assist me in my recovery. ' Now,' said I aloud, ' my
dear father's words are come to pass: God's justice
has overtaken me, and Ihave none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mer-
cifully put me in aposture or station of life wherein
I might have been happy and easy; but I would
neither see it myself, nor learn to know the blessing
of it from my parents : I left them to mourn over my
folly, and now I am left to mourn under the conse-
quences of it. I refused their help and assistance,
who would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made every thing easy to me: and now I have
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature
itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no com-
fort, no advice.' Then I cried out, 'Lord, be my
help, for I am in great distress!'

This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that
I had made for many years. But I return to my
journal.

June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleepI had had, and the fit beino entirely off I got
up; and the first thing I did I filled a large square

n3
case bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed ; and to take off the chill or agueish
disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a
pint of rum into it, and mixed them together ; then I
got me a piece of goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but could eat very little; I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted,
in the sense of my miserable condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next day: at night I
made my suplper of three of the turtle's eggs which I
roasted in t e ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever
asked God's blessing to, that I could remember, in
my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my-
self so weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I
never went out without that) : so I went but a little way
and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the
sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me.

What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I,
and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and
brutal, whence are we?

Such we are all made by some secret power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky: and who
is that?

Then it followed most naturally : it is God that has
made it all. \Vell, but then it came on strongly: If
God has made all these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for the
Being that could make all things, must certainly have
power to guide and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful con-
dition; and if nothing happens without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed all this to befal me.

Nothing occured to my thouo-hts to contradict any
of these conclusions; and therefbre it rested upon me
with the greater force, that it musts needs be, that God
has appointed all this to befal me ; that I was brought
to this miserable circumstance by his direction, be
having the sole power, not of me only, but of every
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it
followed,

Why has God done this to me '4' What have I done
to be thus used?

My conscience presently checked me in that in-
quiry, as if I had blasphemed ;' and methought, it
spoke to me like a voice, Wretch! dost thou ask what
thou hast done ! Look back upon a dreadful misspent
life, and ask thyself what thou hast done? Ask, why
is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed; Why wert
thou not drowned in Yarmouth roads? killed in the
fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee man of
war 2? devoured by wild beasts on the coasts of Africa?
or, drowned here, when all the crew perished but
thyself? Dost thou ask, What have I done 1?

I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to an;-
swer myself; but rose up, pensive and sad, walked
back to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I
had been going to bed: but my thoughts were sadly
disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat
down in my chair and lighted my lamp, for it began
to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the return
of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred
to my thought that the Brazilians 'take no ph sic but
their tobacco for almost all distempers ; and had a
piece of roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which
was quite cured, and some also that was green, and
not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the to-
bacco ; and as the few books I had saved lay there too,
I took out one of the Bibles which I had mentioned
before, and which to this time, I had not found leisure,
or so much as inclination, to look into: I say I took it
out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to
the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to
my distemper, or whether it was good for me or not;
but I tried several experiments with it, as if I was re-
solved it should hit one way or other. I first took a
piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which
indeed, at first almost stupified my brain, the tobacco
being green and strong, and not having been much
used to it: then 1 took some. and steeped it an hour
or two in rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down; and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of
coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it, as
long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as the
virtue of it, and I held it almost to suffocation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bi-
ble, and began to read ; but my head was too much
disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at least at
that time : only, having opened the book casually, the
first words that occurred to me were these, ' Call on
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me.'

The words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did after-
ward; for, as for being delivered, the word had no
sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote,
so impossible in my apprehension of things, that I
began to say as the children of Israel did, when they
were promised flesh to eat, ' Can God spread a table
in the wilderness?' So I began to say, Can God
himself deliver me from this place? And as it was
not for many years that any hope appeared, this pre-
vailed very often upon my thoughts. But, however,
the words made a great impression upon me, and I
mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much,
that I inclined to slee ; so I left my lamp burning in
the cave, lest I shoul want any thing in the night,
and went to bed: but before I lay down, I did what
I never had done in all my life, I kneeled down, and
prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that, if I
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would de-
liver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer
was over, I drank the rum in which 1 had steeped the
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the tobacco,
that indeed I could scarce get it down. Immediately
upon this I went to bed, and I found presently it flew
up into my head violently ; but I fell into a sound
sleep, and waked no more, till by the sun, it must ne-
cessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon, the
next day : nay, to this hour, I am partly of the opinion
that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost
three the day after; for, otherwise, I knew not how I
should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of
the week, as it appeared, some years after, I had done ;
for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line,
I should have lost more than one day; but certainly,
I lost a day in my account, and I never knew which way.

Be that as it may, one way or other, when I awaked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits
lively and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger
than Iwas the day before, and my stomach better;
for I was hungry, and in short, I had no fit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better. This
was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far
I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand-
goose, and brought them home, but was not very
forward to ate them; so I eat some more of the tur-
tles' eggs, which were very good. This evening I
renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did. me
good the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum,
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke.
However, I was not so well the next day, which was
the lst of July, as I hoped I should have been; for I
had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the
quantity which I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
IVhile I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts
ran exceedingly upon this Scripture,' 'I will deliver
thee ; and the impossibility of my deliverance lay
much u on my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it.
But as was discouraging myself with such thoughts,
it occurred to my mind, that I pored so much upon
my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disre-
garded the deliverance I had received; and I was, as
it were, made to ask myself such questions as these:
viz. Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too,
from sickness ; from the most distressed condition
that could be, and that was so frightful to me ? And
what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part ?
God had delivered me: but I had not glorified him;
that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for
that as a deliverance : and how could I expect greater
deliverance ?

This touched my heart very much, and immediately
I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud, for my
recovery from sickness.

July 4. In the morning, 1 took the Bible ; and,
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read every morn-
ing and every night, not tying myself to a number 01
chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engaoe
me. It was not long after I set seriously to this work,
but I found my heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The
impression of a dream revived, and the words 'All
these things have not brought thee to repentance,' ran
seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of
God to give me repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially, the very day, that reading the Scripture, I
came to the words, 'He is exalted a Prince, and a
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission.'
I threw down the book, and, with my heart as well as
my hands lifted up to Heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of
joy, I cried out aloud. ' Jesus, thou Son of David,
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me re-
pentance !'

This was the first time that I could say, in the true
sense of the word, that I prayed in all my life; for
now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with
a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the en-
couraoement of the word of God; and from this
time, {l may say, I began to have hope that God would
hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above
' Call on me, and I will deliver you,' in a different
sense from what I had ever done before : for then I
had no notion of any thing being called deliverance,
but my being deliV ered from the captivity I was in ,
for though ID VV as indeed at large in the place, 3et the
island VVas certain 11, a p1ison to me, and that in the
WOISt sense of the VVord; but now I learned to take
it in another sense. 1\0VV, I looked back upon my
past life VVith such honor, and mV' sins appeared so
drea lful, that m3 soul sought nothing of God but de-
liverance from the load of guilt that bore down all 1111'
comfort. As for my solitary life it VV as nothing, deg I did
not so much as mm to be delivered from it, or think
of it . it VVas all of no consideration in comparison of
this; and I add this part here, to hint to whom er
shall 1ead it, that VV 11Lnever they come to a true sens 1
of things, they VV1ll find deliverance from sin a much
greater blessing, than deliverance fro 111 affliction.

But, leaving: this part, I return to mv journal.

My condition began no" to be, though not less
miserably as to 1113' um of l1V11103et much easier to
my mind, and mV thoughts being directed, by a 00::-
stant reading of the Scriptures, and pra3 in0 to God, to
things of a highe1 natuie, I had agreat deal of comfort
within, which till no" I knew nothing of. Also, as
my health and st1ength returned, I hestirred 1113' self
to furnish m3 self VV 1th eV cr3 thing that I VV anted, and
make m3 way of 11V 111:: as regularb as I could.

From the 4th of J ulV to othe 14th, I VV as chiefly

employed in VV alking about with my gun in my hand,
a little and a little at a time, as a man 3that was gather-
mg up his strength after a fit of sickness: for it is
hardly to be imagined, 110VV 10VV I "as, and to what
weakness I was 3reduced. The application which I
made use of VV as perfectly neVV, and perhaps VVhat had
never cured an ague before, neither can I recommend
it to any one to practise, by this experiment, and
though it did carry oil" the fit, yet it rather contributed
to weaken me : for I had frequent convulsions in my
nerves and limbs for some time.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months : all possibility of deliverance from this condi-
tion seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no human shape had ever set foot
upon that place. Having now secured my habitation,
as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to
make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to
see what other productions I might find, which yet I
knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more
particular survey of the island itself. I went up the
creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on
shore. I found, after I came about two miles up,
that the tide (lid not flow any higher, and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, and
very fresh and good; but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least
not enough to run in any perceptible stream.

On the bank of this brook, I found many pleasant
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass; and on the rising pares of them, next to the
higher grounds, where the water, as it might be sup-
posed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very strong
stalk. There were divers other plants, which I had
no notion of, or understanding about; and might,
perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not
find out.

I searched for the Cassava root, which the Indians,
in all that climate, make their bread of; but I- could
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them. I saw several sugar-canes,
but wild, and for want of cultivation, imperfect.

The next day the 16th, I went up the same way
again: and, after going something farther than I had
gone the day before, I found the brook and the sa1an-
nas began to cease, and the country became more
11ood1' than before. In this put I found difl'erent
fiuits, and pa1ticular11' I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees: the vines had spread indeed over the trees, and
th 10 clusters of grapes new just now in their prime,
1'e11' ripe and rich. '1 his 11 as a surprising discovery,
and I 11 as exceedingly glad of them, but I 11' as warned
by my experience, to eat sparingly of them, remem-
be11n01 that when I 11115 ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed se1e1'al of our Englishmen, 11110 were
slaves there, by t11101111111 them into fluxes and 1131' ms:
but I found an excellent use for these grapes; and
that was to mm or 1111' them in the sun, and keen
them as dried raisins are kept, which I thought 11011111
be, as indeed t11e1 11 me as wholesome, and as agree-
able to eat, 11 Ma no grapes might be had.

I spent all that evening there, and 11 cut not back to
1111' habitation, 111111111111 the 11 a1 11 as the first night,
as I might sa1, I 111111 lain from home. In the night I
took 1n1 first cont1111111e and got 11p into a cm,
11 here I s1ept well, and the next morning proceeded
upon my discovery, 11'11e111111r nea'1 four Dmiles, as I
might judge by the lengt 1 ot 6the 1'alle1', keeping still
due north, 111th a ridge of hills 011 the south and north
side of me.

At the end of this march, I came to an opening,
11here the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of f1 esh water, 11111011 issued out of

the side of the 11111 by me, ran the other 11 a1, that is,
due east: and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure,
or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted

g\1l'\1{'l .
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure
(though mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to think
that this was all my own ; thatI was a king and lord of
all this country indefeasibly, and I had a right of pos-
session; and, if I could convey it, I might have it in
inheritance, as completely as any lord of a manor in
England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees;
oran e, and lemon, and citron trees: but all wild, and
few caring any fruit, at least not then. However,
the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant
to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice
afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome,
and very cool and refreshing.

I found now I bad business enough to gather and
carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well
of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for
the wet season, which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of
grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in another
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in ano-
ther place; and, taking a few of each with me, I tra-
velled homeward, and resolved to come again, and
bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry
the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in my journey,
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my
cave) ; but, before I got thither, the grapes were
spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the weight of
the juice, having broken them and bruised them, they
were good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they
were good, but I could brino but few.

The next day, being the 39th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when coming to my heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered
them, I found them all spread abroad, trod to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and
abundance eaten and devoured. By this, I concluded
there were some wild creatures thereabouts, which had
done this; but what they were, I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack; but
that one way they would be destroyed, and the other
way they would be crushed with their own weight, I
tool: another course; for I gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hung them upon the out-b 'anches of
the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes, and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.

When I came home from this joumey, I contem-
plated, with great pleasure, the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation, the se-
eiu-ity from storms on that side of the water, and the
wood ; and concluding that I had pitched upon a place
to fix my abode, which was, by far, the worst part of
the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and to look out for a place
equally safe as where I now was situate, if possible, in
that pleasant fruitful part of the island.

This thought run long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of
the place tempted me; but when I came to a nearer
view of it, and to consider that I was now by the sea-
side, where it was at least possible that something
might happen to my advantage, and that the same ill
fate which brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretehes to the same place; and though it
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet, to enclose myself among the hills and
woods, and to render such an affair not only impro-

bable, but impossible ; and that therefore I ought not.
by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured with this place, that
I spent much of my time there, for the whole remain-
ing part of the month of July: and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved as above, not to remove,
vet I built me alittle kind of a bower, and surrounded

 

it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked and filled
between with brushwood ; and here I lay very secure,

I3
sometimes two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as before, so that l fancied now
I had my country house, and my sea-coast house ; and
this work took me up to the beginning of August.

Iliad but newly finished my fence, and began to
enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation ; for though I
had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of
a sail, and Spread it very well, yet I had not the
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat into, when the rains were extra-
ordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3rd of August, I found the grapes I had hung up
were perfectly (h'ied, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from
the trees; and it was very happy that I did so, for
the rains which followed would have spoiled them,
and I had lost the best part of my winter food ; for I
had above two hundred large bunches of them. No
sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of
them home to my cave, but it began to rain; and from
hence, which was the l-lth of August, it rained more
or less every day till the middle of October; and some-
times so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave
for several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead; and I heard no more talc
or tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she came
home about the end of August with three kittens.

This was the more strange to me, because, though I
had killed a wild cat, as I called ' it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our
European cats; yet the young cats were the same kind
of house-breed, like the old one; and both my cats
being females, I thought it very strange. But from
these three cats I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin,
or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as
much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain,
so that I could not stir, and was now very careful not
to be much wet. In this confinement I began to be
straitened for food; but ventured out twice, I one day
killed a goat; and the last day, which was the 26th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me;
and my food was regulated thus: I eat a bunch of
raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my
great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any
thing) ; and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave;
and, by degrees, worked it- on towards one side, till I
came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way
out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and so I
came in and out this way. ButI was not perfectly
easy at layino so open; for, as I had managed my-
self before, was in a perfect enclosure, whereas
now I thought I lay exposed; and yetI could not er-
ceive that there was any living thing to fear, the ig-
gest creature that I had yet seen upon the island
being a goat.

September the 30th. I was now come to the un-
happy anniversary of my landing. I cast up the
notches on my post, and found I had been on shore
three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day
as a solemn fast, setting it apart to religious exercise,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious
umiliation, confessed my sins to God, acknowledging
his righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him
to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and not
having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours,
even till the goino down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit
cake, and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finish-
ing the day as I began it.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day ; for as
at first Ihad no sense of religion upon my mind, I
had after some time omitted to distinguish the
weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of
the days were: but now having east up the days as
above, I found I had been there a year, so 1 divided it
into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
Sabbath ; though I found at the end of my amount, I
lost a day or two in my reckoning.

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life,
without continuing a daily memorandum of other
thinos.

I zIznentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island, and that I had travelled up the
brook, and so on to where I had built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island, I now resolved to travel
quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so taking my
gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes,
and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch, for my
store, I began my journey. When I had passed the
vale where my bower stood, as above, I came in view
of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day,
I fairlv descried land, whether an island or a continent,
I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from
the west, to the W. S. W. at a very reat distance:
by my guess it could not be less than fi teen or twenty
leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew that it must be part of
America: and, as I concluded, by all my observations,
must be near the Spanish dominions, and erhaps was
all inhabited by savages, where, if I s ould have
landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was
now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which I began now to ovm, and to be-
lieve, ordered everything for the best ; I say, I quieted
my mind with this, and left afflicting my mind with
fruitless wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered, that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should some time or other see some vessels pass or
repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the
savage coast between the Spanish country and
Brazils, which were indeed the worst of savages, for
they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to
murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into
their hands.

With these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found that side of the island where I now
was much pleasanter than- mine, the open or
savannah fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of gar-
rots, and fain would I have caught one, if possr 1e,
to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to
me. I did after some pains taken, catch a young
parrot ; for I knocked it down with a stick, and having
recovered it, I brought it home, but it was some years
before I could make him speak. However, at last I
taught him to call me by my name very familiar.But the accident that followed, though it be a trifle,
will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds, hares, asI thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all
other kinds I had met with ; nor could I satisfy my-
self to eat them, though I killed several. But I had
1.0 need to be venturous, for I had no want of food,
and of that which was very good too; especially these
three sorts, viz. goats, pigeon, and turtle or tortoise,
which added to my grapes, Leadenhall market could
not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company. And though my case was deplorable
enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness, that I
was not driven to any extremities for food, but had
rather plenty, even to danties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where I
resolved to sit down for all night; and then I either re-
posed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a
row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree to another, so as no wild creature could come
at me, without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island ; for here indeed the shore was covered with
innumerable turtles; whereas on the other side I had
found but: hree in a year and a half. Here was al-
so an infinite number of fowls, of many kinds, some of
which I had seen, and some of which I had not seen
before, and many of them very good meat; but such
as I knew not the names of, except those called Den-
guins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was
very sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore
had more mind to kill a she- oat, if I could, which I
could better feed on. And t ough there were many
goats here more than on my side of the island, yet it
was with much more diflicu ty that I could come near
them, the country being flat and even, and they saw
me much sooner than when I was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country much pleasanter
than mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to
remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it be-
came natural to me; and I seemed all the while I was
here, to be, as it were, upon a journey, and from
home. However, I travelled along the shore of the
sea, towards the east, I suppose, about twelve miles;
and then setting up,a great pole upon the shore, for a
mark, I concluded I would go home again; and that
the next journey I took, should be on the other side
of the island, east from my dwelling, and so round,
till I came to my post again: of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in
my view, that I could not miss finding my first dwel-
ling, by viewing the country : but I found myself
mistaken: for being come about two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valley, but
so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
woods, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that
time of the day.

It happened to my farther misfortune, .that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while I
was in this valley; and not being able to see the sun,
I wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last

was obliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post,
and come back the same way I went; and then, by
easy journe3 s, I tu111ed homeward, the weather being
exceedingly hot; and 1113 gun, ammunition, hatchet,
and other things, very hear 3'.

In this Journey 1113' dog surprised ayoung kid, and
seized upon it; and Irunning 1n to take hold of it,
caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a
great mind to bring it home, if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to
get a kid or two, and to 1aise a abreed of tame goats,
which might suppl3 me when my powder and shot
should be all spent.

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a

string, which I made of some rope-3' a111, which I
.1111 31s cariicd about me I led him along, though 111th
some difficulty, till I came to 1113' bower, and t': me I
enclosed hi111_.a11d left him, - for I was 1'er3-' 1111 patle1t
to be at home, from 11 hence I had bee 11 ab sent "Love
a month.

I cannot express 11 hat a satisfaction it was to me to
come into 1113' old hut ch, and lie down in my ham-
1nock-bed.'l'11is little 11a11dering journe3',11.'ithout
any settled place of abode, had been so unplea =.:111t
to me, that m3 own house, as I called it to my self. was
a pm feet settlement to me, conmared to that , and 1t
rendered every thing about me so comfort able, th:1 '1tI
resolved I would 11e1' cr go a great way from it again,
while it should be my lot to stay on t' 1e island.

I reposed m1' self here a week to rest and regale 1113'-
self after my long Journey", during which, most of the
time was taken up in the 11' eight3 affair of making a
cage for mv poll, 11110 began now to be a mere
domestic, and to be mig'11t3 well acquainted with me.
Then I began to think of the poor kid, which I had
pent in within my little circle, and resolved to go and
fetch it home, or give it some food: accordingly 1

rent, and found it 11 here I left it, for indeed it could'

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 91

not get out, but was almost starved for want of food.
I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such
shrubs as I could find, and threw it over; and having
fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it
was so tame with being hungry that I had no need
.to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so -
gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me
afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the
same solemn manner as before, being the anniversary
of my landing on the island, having now been there
two years, and no more prospect of being delivered
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole
day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition
was attended with, and without which it might have
been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and
hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to
me, even that it was possible I might be more happy
in this solitary condition, than I should have been in a
liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the world;
that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of
my solitary state, and the want of human society, by
his presence, and the communications of his grace to
my soul, supporting, comforting, and encouraging me
to depend upon his providence here, and hope for his
eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how
much more happy the life I now led was, with all its
miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,
abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now having changed both my s0rrows and my joys,
my very desires altered, my afi'ections changed their

K
guests, and my delights were perfectly new, from what
they were at my fnst coming, or indeed for the two
Vears past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
for viewing the countrV, the anguish of my soul at my
condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and
my V'e1_V' heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in: and how
I VV as a prisoner locked up with the etelnal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited VV1lde1ness, with-
out 1edemption. In the midst of the greatest com-
posures of mind, this VV ould break out upon me,
like a storm. and make me wring my hands, and weep
like a child. Sometimes it would take me in the
middle of mV VV ork, and I VV ould immediately sit down
and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour or two
together, and this was still VV 01 se to me; for if I could
burst out into tears, o1 Vent mV selt b_V VVo1ds, it would
go off, and the g1ief, haV mg exhausted itself, would
abate.

But now I began to exercise mV self VV 1th new
thoughts. I dailV 1ead the VV 0rd of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to mV present state. One morning
being Very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words,
' I will never, neV e1 lcaVe thee, nor forsake thee."
immediately it occuried, that these VV01ds "me to me ,
why else should theV be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mouming 0V er my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man! ' Well,
then,' said I,' if God does not forsake me, of what ill
consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the
VV orld should all forsake me, seeing, on the other hand,
if I had all the world, and shouldo lose the favour and
plesszipg of God, there would be no comparison in the

ass

1'1 om this moment I began to conclude in my mind
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was robable I
should have ever been in any other partic ar state in
the world; and with this thought, I was going to
give thanks to God for bringing me to this place.

I was now in the months of November and Decemo
her, ex ecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground had manured or dug up for them was not
great; for my seed of each was not above the quantity
of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sow-
ing in the dry season, but now my crop promised very
well, when, on a sudden, I found I was in danger of
losing it all again, by enemies of several sorts, which
it was scarcely possible to keep from it; as first, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and
day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but b making an en-
closure about it with a hedge, which did with a great
deal of toil, and the more because it required speed,
the creatures daily spoiling my corn.- However, as
my arable land was but small, suited to m crop, I
got it tolerably well fenced in about three wee s' time;
and shooting some of the creatures in the day-time, I
set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to
a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all
night long; so, in a little time, the enemies forsook
the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen apace.

But, as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were likely to ruin
me now, when it was in the ear; for going along by
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls, of I know not how many sorts,

who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone.100 icoeixsox ems-son.

I immediately let flV' among them (for I always had
111V gun VV 1th mew. I had no sooner shot, but there
10se up a little cloud of fouls, VV 111ch I had not seen at
all, from among the com itself

This touched me sensibly: for I foresaw that, in a
few days, they would deVour all mV hopes; that I
should be starV ed and 11m er be able to 1aise a crop at
all, and VV hat to do I could not tell. II0VVcV'er, I re-
SOlV' ed not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should "ate 1 it night and daV . In the first place,
I went among it to see VV hat damage VV as alreadV done,
and found theV had spoiled a good deal of it; but that,

as it was Vet too 010011 for them, the loss VV as not so

g1eat, but that the 1e111ai11de1 VVas likelV to be a good
c1011, if it could be 5m ed.

Istaid bV it to load my gun, and then coming aVV aV',
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they 0an VV aited ti; '-1 I "as gone aan ,
and the event pioV' ed it to be so; for as I walked 611'
as if I VV ere gone, I VV as no sooner out of their sight,
but they drOpped d0VV 11, one 11V one, into the corn again.
I VV as so prOV oked, that I could not haVc patience to
stay till mom came on, knowing that m elV grain that
they eat n0VV, VV as,a s it might be said, a peek leaf to
me in the consequences , but, coming up to the hedge,
I fired again, and kill ed tlnce of 13them. This was
VVhat I wished for; so I took them up, and served
them as "(1 serVe notmious thie'res 1n England, viz.
hanging them 1n chains fora terror to 0the1s. It is
almost impossible to 111 :gine that this should haVe
such an eflect as it had; for the IOVVls VVould not only
not come at the com, but, 1n short, they fmsook all
that part of the isiand, and I could never see abird
near the place as long as mV' scarec10VV's hung there.

This I was very glad of, Vou may be sure , and,
about the latter end of December, VV h1c11 was our
second harV est of the year, I reaped in) mop.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe, or a sickle, to cut
it down, and all I could do was to make one as well as
I could, out of one of the broad-swords, or cutlasses, ,
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my crop was but small, I had no great diffi-
culty to cut it down. In short, I reaped it my way;
for I cut nothing of? but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it
out with my hands. And at the end of all my harvest-
ing, I found that out of my half peek of seed, I had
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a
half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had
no measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw that, in time, it would please God to
supply me with bread. And yet here I was perplexed
again, for I neither knew how to grind or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it, and part it;
nor, if made into meal, how to make bread of it, yet
I knew not how to bake it. These things being added
to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and
to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and, in the meantime, to employ all my
study and hours of working to accomplish this great
work of providing myself Wlth corn and bread.

When my corn was growing and grown, I have
observed how many things I wanted, to fence it, se-
cure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in; and
yet all these things I did without, as shall be observed;
and the corn was an inestimable comfort and ad-
vantage to me too. All this, as I said, made every
thing laborious and tedious to me. but that there was

1:3
no help for: neither was my time so much loss to me,
because as I had divided it, a certain part of it was
every day appointed to these works; and, as I re-
solved to use none of the corn for bread, till I had a
greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly by labour and invention to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary for the making the corn, when I
had it fit for my use.

But first. I was to prepare more land, for Ihad now
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before
I did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to
work with it. However, I went through that, and
sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as
near my house as I could find them to my mind, and
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut of that wood which I had set before,
which I knew would grow; so that, in one year's
time, I knew I should have a quick or living hedge,
that would want but little repair. This work was not
so little as to take me up less than three months, be-
cause great part of that time was of the wet seasons
when I could not go abroad.

Vv'ithin-doors, that is, when it rained, and I could
not go out, I found employment on the following oc-
casions ; always observing, that all the while I was at
wor i, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and
teaching him to speak; and I quickly taught him to
know his own name, at last to speak it out pretty loud
' Poll ;' which was the first word I had ever heard spoken
in the island by any mouth but my own. This, there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands, as follows viz., I had long studied, by some
means or other, to make myself some earthem vessels,
which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where to
come at them. However, considering the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find out any
such cla. , I might botch up some such pot, as might,
being dried in the sun, be hard enough, and strong
enough, to bear handling, and to hold any thing that
was dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was
necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c. which was the
thing Iwas upon, I resolved to make some as large as
I could, and fit only to stand like jars to hold what
should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, .
the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight:
how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily ; and how many fell to pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried : and, in a word, how, after having laboured
hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper 1t, to bring
it home, and work it, I could not make above two
large, earthen, ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in
about two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker-baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break;
and as between the pot and the basket there was a lit-
tle room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and bar-
ley straw; and these two pots, being to stand always
dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps
the meal when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with bet-
ter success; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and anything my hand turned to ;
and the heat of the sun baked them extremely hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which
was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
bear the fire, which none of these could do. It hap-
pened after some time, making a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat, when I went to put it out, after I
had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my
earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to
see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a
pile one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
round it with a great heap of embers under them. I
piled the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the tow, till 1 saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through, and observed they did not crack at all.
When I saw them a clear red, I let them stand in that
heat about five or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run 3 for the sand
which was mixed with the clay melted with the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the
pots began to abate of the red colour, and watching
them all night, that I might not let the fire abate too
fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will not
say handsome pipkins, and two other earthenpots, as
hard burnt as could be desired; and one of them per-
fectly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment. I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indiffe-
rent, as anyone may suppose, when I had no way of
making them, but as the children make dirt-pies, or
as a woman would make pies that never learnt to raise
paste.

No joy at a thin of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when? found I had made an earthen
ot that would hear the fire; and I had hardly pa-
ience to stay till they were cold, before I set one upon
the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some
meat, which it did admirably well; and, with a piece
of kid, I made some very good broth, though I '
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite

to make it as good as I would have had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to '
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arriving to that perfection of art
with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was
at a great loss : for, of all trades in the world, I was as
perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for anything
whatever: neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone bi<r
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, an
could find none at all. except what was in the solid
rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness suffi-
cient, but were of a sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand. So,
after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone,
I gave it over, and resolved to look for a great block
of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had stren h to stir, I rounded
it, and formed it on the outsi e with my axe and
hatchet; and then, with the help of fire, and infinite
labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this I made a great
heavy pestle or heater, of the wood called the iron-
wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I had
my next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to
grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal, to make
my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or searce,
to dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
husk without which I did not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so
much as but to think on; for, to be sure, I had no-
thing like the necessary thing to make it with, I mean
fine thin canvass, or stuff to searce the meal through.
And here I was at a full stop for many months; nor
did I really know what to do : linen I had none left,
but what was mere rags. I had goat's hair, but nei-
ther knew I how to weave or spin it; and had I
known how, here were no tools to work it with: all
the remedy that I found for this, was, that at last I
did remember I had, among the seamen's clothes,
which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of
calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these I
made three small sieves, but proper enough for the
work: and thus I made shift for some years. How I
did afterwards, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as
there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern
myself much about it; but for an oven, I was indeed
in great pain. At length I found out an expedient
for that also, which was this: I made some earthen
vessels, very broad, but not deep; that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep:
these I burnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and
1 laid them by, and when I wanted to bake, I made a
I great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with
some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also: but I should not call them square.

When the fire-wood was burnt retty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them orward upon this
hearth so as to cover it all over; and there I let them
lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away
all the embers, I set down my loaf and loaves, and,
whclmino down the earthen pot upon them, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot to keep in,
and add to the heat; and thus as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and be-
came, in a little time, a mere pastry-cook into the
bargain; for I made m self several cakes of the rice,
and puddings: indeed made no pies, neither had I
any thing to put into them, supposing I had, except
the flesh either of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here:
for it is to be observed, that, in the intervals of these
things, I had m new harvest and husbandry to man-
age, for I reape my corn in its season, and carried it
home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in
my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I
had no floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it
with.

And now indeed my stock at corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a
place to lay it up in g for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of barley about twenty
bushels, and of the rice as much, or more; insomuch
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely, for my
bread had been quite gone a great while; also I re-
solved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me
a whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could consume
in a year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity
every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a
quantity would fully provide me with bread, (to.

All the while these things were doing you may be
sure .my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect
of land, which I had seen from the other side of the
island; and I y'as not without secret wishes that I
were on shore there, fancying that seeing the main
land, and an inhabited country, I might find some
way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at
last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and how I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of
Africa: if I once came into their power, I should
run a hazard more than a thousand to one of being
killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard,
that the people of the Carribean coast were eannibals,
or men-eaters: and I knew by the latitude, that I
could not be far of? from that shore; that. suppose
they were not cannibals, yet they might kill me, as
many Europeans who had fallen into their hands had
been served, even when they had been ten or twenty
together; much more I that was but one. and could
make little or no defence. All these things, I say
which I ought to have considered well of, and did cast
up in my thoughts afterward, yet took up none of my
apprehensions at first; and my head ran mightily
upon the thought of getting over to that shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and
300k at our shi 's boat, which, as I have said, was
blown up upon t 1e shore, a great way, in the storm,
and we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did at first, but not quite: and was turned, by the
force of the waves and the winds, almost bottom up-
wards, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand, but
no water about her, as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the
Brazils with her easily enough : but I might have
easily foreseen that I could no more turn her, and set
her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the
island. However, I went to the woods, and cut levers
and rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolved to
try what I could do, suggesting to myself, that if I
could but turn her down, I might easily repair the
damage she had received, and she would be a very
good boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no ains indeed in this piece of frurtless
toil, and spent, think, three or four weeks about it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with my
little strength, I fell to digng' away the sand to un-
dermine it, and soto make it lfiall down, settingpieces
of weed to thrust and guide it right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
agilln, or get under it, much less to move. it forward
towards the water; so 1 was forced to give=itsoverz
and, yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
des1re to venture over for the main increased, rather .
than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible. i

This at leugth set me upon thinking, whether it was l
not POSSlble to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such 5
as the natives of those climates make; even without
tOOIS, or, as I might say, without hands; viz., of the
trunk 0f 8 great tree. This I not only thought possi-

L
ble, but easy; and pleased myself extremely with the
thoughts of making it, and with myhaving much more
convenience for it than any of the negroes or Indians,
but not at all considering the particular incom'eniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, \'iz.
want of hands to move it into the water, when it was
made: a dilliculty much harder for me to surmuunt,
than all the consequences of want of tools could he to
them; for what was it to me, that when I had chosen

 

a' vast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble.-
cut it down, if after I nilght be able with my tools to
hue and dub the outszde mto the proper $1131": of as
boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow,
so to make a boat of it, if, after all this, I must leave it
just where I found it, and was not able to launch it into
the water?

One would have thought, I could not have had the
least afi'ection upon my mind of my circumstances,
while I was making this boat, but I should have im-
mediately thought how I should get it into the sea;
but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over
the sea in it, that I never once considered how I
should get it off the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five
miles of sea, than about forty-five fathom of land, where
it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it: not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my
head ; but I put a stop to my own enquiries into it, by
this foolish answer, which I gave myself; ' Let me first
make it, I'll warrant I'll find some way or other to get
it along, when it is done.'

This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work] went,
and felled a cedar-tree. I question much whether
Solomon ever had such a one for the building the tem-
ple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter,
at the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven
inches diameter, at the end of twenty-two feet; after
which, it lessened for a while, and then parted into
into branches. It was not without infinite abour that I
felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hew-
ing it at the bottom: I was fourteen more getting;
the branches, and limbs, and the vast spreading head of
it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with my
axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After this
it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to a propor-
tion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that
it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me
near three months more to clear the inside, and work
it out so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did
indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very

handsome perir wua, and big enough to have carried
SLY-and-twenty men, and consequently big enough to
have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really much
bigger than I ever saw a canoe, or pariagua, that was
made of one tree, in my life; many a weary stroke it
had cost, you may be sure, and there remained no-
thing but to get it into the water ; and had I gotten it
into the water, I make no question but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to
be performed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me,
though they cost me infinite labour too: it lay about
one iundred yzu'ds from the water, and not more;
but the first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards
the creek. \Vell, to take away this discouragement,
I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity. This I began and it cost me a pro-
digious deal of pains; but who grudge pains that have
their deliverance in view? But when this was worked
through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much
at one; for I could no more stir the canoe, than I
could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to
the canoe, seeing that I could not bring the canoe
down to the water. Well, I begun this work, and
when I begun to enter into it, and calculated how deep
it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be
thrown out, I found that, by the number of hands I
had, being none but my own, it must have been ten
or twelve years before I should have gone through
with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper
end it must have been at least twenty feet deep; so at
length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this at-
tempt over also.

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength
to go through with it.

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion and with as much comfort, as ever be-
fore; for by a constant study, and a serious applica-
tion of the word of God, and by the assistance of his
grace I gained a different knowledge from what I had
before. I entertained different notions of things. I
looked now upon the world as a thing remote, which
I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and in-
deed no desire about; in a word, I had nothing indeed
to do with it, nor was ever like to have, so I thought
it looked, as we perhaps may look upon it hereafter;
viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it;
and well might I say as father Abraham to Dives,
' Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed.'

In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here. I had neither the 'lust
of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of life.'
I had nothing to covet; for I had all I was capable of
enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor, of, if I
pleased, I might call myself King or emperor over the
whole country which I had possession of. There were
no rivals. I had no competitor; none to dispute

L3
sovereignty or command with me. I might have
raised ship-loads of corn but I had no use for it, so
I let as little grow as I thought enough for my oc-
casion. I had tortoises or turtles enough; but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any use.
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships. I
had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have
cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they
had been built.

But all that I could make use of, was all that was
valuable. I had enough to eat, and to supply my
wants, and what was all the rest to me? If I killed
more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or
the vermin? if I sowed more corn than I could eat,
it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut down were
lying to rot on the ground, I could make no more use
of them than for fuel : and that I had no occasion for,
but to dress my food.

These reflections made me very sensible of the
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful for
my present condition, with all its hardships and mis-
fortunes.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed, by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable;
for when I began to regret the want of conversation,
I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutually
with my own thoughts, and, as Ihope I may say, with
even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was
not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world?

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in the
posture and place just as before. The chief thing I
was employed in, besides my yearly labour of planting
my barley and rice, and Curing my raisins, of both
which I always kept up just enough to have suf-
ficient stock of one year's provisions before-hand ;
I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily labour
of going out with my gun, I had one labour to make
me a canoe, which at last I finished. So that by dig-
ging a canal to it six feet wide and four feet deep, I
brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for
the first, that was so vastly big, as I made it without
considering before-hand as I ought to do, how I
should be able to launch it, so never being able to bring
it to the water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged
to let it he where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser next time. Indeed the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in
a place where I could not get the water to it, at any
less distance than, as I have said, of nearly half a mile,
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and though I was near two years about it, yet I
never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat
to go off to sea in at last.

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
which I had in view, when I made the first, I mean of
venturing over to the term firma, where it was above
forty miles broad : accordingly, the smallness of my boat
assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought
no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next design
was to make a tour round the island; for as I had
been on the other side in one place, crossing as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat I thought of
nothing but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ships sail, which lay 111 st01e, and of
which I had a great stock by me.

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat,
I found she 11 ould s 1il 1'e11 11'e11. 'lhen I made little
lockers or boxes at either end of 1111' boat, to put pro-
visions, necessaiies, and ammunition, &c. into, to he
kept dry, either 110111 min or the spray of the sea, and
a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat,
11he1e I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang 01 er
it to keep it (111'.

I fixed an umbrella of 1111' 01111 manufacture also
in a step of the stern, like a mast, to stand 01' er my
head, and to keep the heat of the sun 011 me, like an
awning , and thus I e1' c11' 11011 and then took a little
101.101, upon the sea but never 11cm: far out, nor far
11 om the little eieek.

I was something impatient, to have the use of my
boat, though 1'e11' loath to 11111 any hazards ; and
therefore sometimes I sat conniving 11 r11s to get her
about the island, and at other times I sat 1111self donn
contented enough 111thout her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the
island, 11 here. as I have said, in 1111' last ramble, I
went up the hill to see how the s1101e lay, and how the
current sat, that I might see "hat I had to do. This
inclination increased upon me e1' e1'1 day, and at length
I resolved to tra1el thither by land; and, following
the edge of the shore, I did so, but had any one in
England been to meet such a man as I was, it must
either have frightened him, or 1aised a great deal of
laughter; and as I frequently stood still to look at
m1 self, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire 111th such an equipage,
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of
my figure as follows:
I had a great, high shapeless cap, made of a goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck , nothing being So hurtful 1n these cli-
1.1ates, as the rain upon cthe flesh under the clothes.

I had a sho1t jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the 111iddledegof my thighs ; and a pair of
open knee d lneeches of the same. ' athe breeehes were
made of the skin of an old lie--goat, 11 hose hair huntr
1101111 such a length 0 1 either side, that, like pantaloons,
it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and
shoes I had none , but I had made=3 me a pair of some-
thing, I scarce le'nea what to call them, likel uskins,
to 1111110111>> 1113' legs, and lace on either side like spat-
tcrdishes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
1101 , all the ms. of my clothes.

1 had 011 a broad belt of eoat's skin diied,11hich i
drew together with t11o thongs of the same,1 instead of
hueklesc ; and, in a kind of a frog, on either side 0.
this, instead of a sword and a dagger, 1111113 :1 little
saw and a hatchet, one on one side, one 011 the otiiei.
I had another belt not so broad, and fastened 1n the
same manner, 11 hich hune over my shoulder; and a:
the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too . in one of which b11115;
my powder, in the other my shot. At 1113' back 1
carried my basket, 011 1113' shoulder a gun, and me:-
my head a grca at elums3, ug'l3, goat's -skin umbrella,
but which, after all, was the most 11cc ssar3' thing I had
about 111e, next to my gun. As for 113' face, the
colour of it 11 as really not so \Iulatto- like as one might
expect from a man not at all careful of it, and 111 mg
within nine or ten (legiees of the equinox. My heard
I had once suffered to arrow till it 11 as about a quaiter
of a yard lono, - bute sbI had both scissors and razors

suflic1ent,l had cut it pretty short, except what grew
on my upper lip, which I had trimmed mto a large
pair of Mahometan V1111sheis, such as I had seen worn
by some Turks, whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors
did not wear such, though the Turks did. Of these
mustachios, or whiskers, 2:1 will not say they were long
enough to hang mV' hat upon them ; but they were of
a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in
England would haV e passed for frightful.

But all this is b1 the bV:e for as to 111V figure, I
had so few to obseiV e me, that it VV as of no manner of
consequence , so I saV no more to that pait. In this
kind of figure I went mv neVV jouineV, and was out
five or six DdaVs. I t1 aV elled first along the sea-shore,
d11 ecth to the place VVheie I first brought my boat to
anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and, haV1no' no boat
now to take care of, I VV ent 0V er the land a nearer way,

to the same height that I VV as upon before, when look-
ing forwa1d to the point of the rocks which lav out,
and which I VV as to double VV 1th my boat, as I said
abOV e, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and

quiet: no rippling, no motion, no cu1'rent,anv more
there than 1n othe1 places.

1 VV as at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in obserVing it, to see if
nothing fiom the sets of the tide had aoccasioned it.
But I "as presenth conVinced how it "as, Viz. that
the tide of ebb setting from the .V est and Joining with
the current of waters fiom some great river on the
shore, must be the occasion of this cur1 ent and that,
acco1ding as the wind blew more fmcibly f1om the
west, or fiom the n01th, this curient came near, or
went farther from the shore, f01, waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainlyo saw the current
again as before, only t at it ran farther off, being near
half a league" irom the shore; whereas, in mv case, it
set close upon the shore, and hurried me in my canoe,
along with it, which at another time it would not have
done.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again; but when I began to think of putting it
into practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at
the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with any patience; but, on
the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious, and this was, that
I would build, or rather make me another periagua,
or canoe, and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time I
had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large eathem
pots, of which I have given an account, and with
fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold
five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of
provisions, especially my corn, some in the ear cut of?
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with
my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that _
there was not the least appearance, to any one's view,
of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
11 1+l11n the land, and upon 1011 er ground, lay my two
pieces of corn giound, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and 11 h1cl. duly yeilded me their harvest
in its seasons, and whenever I had occations for more
com, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now
a tole1 able plantation there also. For, first, I had my
little b011e1, as I called it, which I I kept in lepair;
that is to sa1'. I kept the hedge which circled it in
constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladde1
sta 1ding al11a1's in the inside. I kept the trees, which
at first 11' me no more than my stakes, but 11 ere no11
<11o11n 1' ery fi1 '11 and tall; I kept them always so cut
that they might spread and grow thick and 11ild, and
make the mom agreeable shade, which they did effec-
tually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my
tent r1111115 standing, being a piece of a sale spread
01' er poms set 111) for that:3 purpose, and which never
11antcd an1 lepai1'01'1enewmg; and under this I had
made me a squab or couch? with the skins of the
c1c'1tu1cs I had killed, and with other soft things, and
a blanket laid 011 them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great 11' atch-coat to
co1'e1 me: and here, whenever I had occasion to be
absent f1 om my chief seat, I took up my country
habitation.

Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures for m1 cattle,
that 1s to say, my goats: and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground
I was so uneasv to see it kept entire, less the goats
should break through, that I never left 05", till,
with infinite labour, thad stuck the outside of the
hedges so full of small stakes, and so near to one an-
other, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and
there was scarce room to put my hand through between
them- which afterwards, when those stakes grew,"
they all did 1n the next rainy season, made the inclo-
111111: strong like a wall, indeed stronge1 than any wall.

This 11111 testify for me that I 11 as not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass 11 hat ever alppeared
necessaly fo1 my comfo1table support, for cons1-
de1ed tlic keeping up abreed lot tame creatures thus
at 1n1'11a11d,11ould be a living magazine of flesh, milk,
butter, and cheese for me, as long as I livedin the
place, 11 it 11 e1e to be forty years; and that keeping
them 1111511111 my reach, depended entirely u n my

eifccting n11' enclosures to such a degree that might

e sum of keeping them together , which by this
method indeed I so effectually seemed, that when
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them
so 1"e11' thick I was forced to pull some of them up
again.

:'In this place also I had my grapes growing, uhich
I principally depended on for my winter-store of
raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very

111efull1 , as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
11 hole diet ; and indeed they 11' e1e not agreeable only,
but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing
to the last degree.

As this 11 as also about half way between my other
habitation and the place when: I liad laid up my boat,
I generally staid and lay here 111 my wya thither, for
I used fiequently to visit my boat, and I kept all tliings
about or belonging to her 1n ve11' good order. Some-
times I went out in her to divert myself, but not any
hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above
a stone' s cast 01 t110 from the sho' e, I 11 as so appre-
hensive of being hurried out of my knowledge by
the currents, or 111nds, or by other accident. But now
I come to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day about noon, goingl towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with e print of a

M
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain
to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck,

 

or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked
round me : I could hear nothing, nor see any thing.
I went up to the rising ground to look farther. I
went up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all
one ; I could see no other impression but that one.
I went to it again to see if there were any more, and
to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but there was
no room for that, for there was exactly the very print
of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot : how it

came thither, I knew not, nor could in the least im-
agine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts,
like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I
came home to my fortification, not feeling, as we say,
the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree,
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mis-
takin every bush and tree, and fancying every stump
at a istance to be a man. Nor is it possible to de-
scribe how many various shapes an afl'rightcd im-
agination represented things to me in; how many
wild ideas were formed every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unaccountable whimsies came into
my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called
it ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued:
whether I Went over by the ladder, as first contrived,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a
door, I cannot remember; for never frighted hare
fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind
than I to this retreat.

I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehen-
sions were; which is something contrary to the nature
of such things, and especially to the usual practice of
all creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with
my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though
I was now a great way off it.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me, that it must be some of the savages of the main
land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and, either driven by the current, or by
contrary winds, had made the island; and had been
on shore, but gone away again to sea, being as loath,
perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island, as I
would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind,
[was very thankful in my thoughts, and I was so
happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that
they did not see my boat, by which they would have
eoncluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me. The:
terrible thoughts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat. and there were people here;
and that, if so, I should certainly have them come in
greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should
happen so that they should not find me, yet they
would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry
away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish
at last for mere want.

In the middle of my cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day that all
this might be a mere chimera of my own, and this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on
shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ;
that it was nothing eise but my own foot; and why
might not I come that way from the boat, as well as I
was going that wav to the boat? Again, I considered
also, that I could by no means tell for certain where I
had trod, and where I had not; and that if at last this.
was only the print of my own foot, I had played the
part of those fools, who strive to make stories of speetres
and apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at
them more than any body else.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again : for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provision,
for I had little or nothing within doors, but some
barley cakes and water. Then I knew my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my
evening diversion. *

Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that3"" ,
' >' ""\'SS\'} 3....
'-':e..~r-~-.' '

.6}

 

< 1' _
;'-C/T':\..-C/s,

3m"

"cl-aw .

 

i

'~----}

m._------__.___
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet
(and so I might be truly said to start at my own
shadow,) I began to o abroad again, and went to my
country house to mil my flock; to see with what
fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me,
how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any
one have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience,
or that I had been lately most terribly frighted ; and
so indeed I had.

However, as I went on thus two or three days, and
had seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but my own im-
agination ; butI could not persuade myself fully of
this, till I should go down to the shore again, and see
this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and
see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might
be assured it was my own foot. But when I came to
the place first, it appeared evidently to me, that when
I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore
any where thercabouts. Secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot
not so large by a great deal : both these things filled
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook
with cold, like one in an ague, and I went home a ain,
filled with the belief that some man or men had een
on shore there 3 or, in short, that the island was in-
habited, and I might be surprised before I was aware ;
and what course to take for my security, I knew not.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and having
by the amusement of my mind, been as it were, tired,
and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and
awoke much better composed than I had ever been
before. And now I began to think sedately ; and

m3
upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded, that
this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful,
and no further from the main land than as I had seen,
was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine;
that although there were no stated inhabitants who
lived on this spot, yet there might sometimes come
boats off from the shore. who either with design, or
perhaps never but when they were driven by cross
winds, might come to this place: that I had lived
fifteen years now, and had not met with the least
shadow or figure of any people before; and that if at
any time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could, see-
ing they had never thought fit to fix there, upon any
occasion, to this time ; that the most I could suggest
any danger from. was, from any such casual ac-
cidental landing of straggling people from the main ;
who as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were
here against their wills, so they made no stay here but
went off again with all possible speed, seldom staying
one night on shore, lest they should not have the help
of the tides and daylight back again: and that there-
fore I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe
retreat, in case should see any savages land upon
the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again. which
door as I said, came out beyond where my fortification
joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this,
therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from
my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees,
about twelve years before, of which I made mention.
These trees having been planted so thick before, there
wanted but a few piles to be driven between them,
that they should be thicker and stronger, and my wall
would be soon finished
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables,
and every thing I could think of to make it strono- ;
having in it seven little holes about as big as I might
put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened
my wall to about ten feet thick, continually bringing
earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the
wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I
took notice that I got seven on shore out of the shiv ;
these I say, I plnated like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames that held them like a carriage, that so I
could fire all the guns in two minutes' time. This wall
I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet never
thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I struck all the ground with-
out my wall, for a great way every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood which I found
so apt to grow, as they could well stand ; insomuch that
I might set in twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might
have no shelter from the young trees if they approach-
ed my outer wall.

Thus, in two years I had a thick grove; and,
in five or six years time, I had a wood before my
dwelling grown so monstrous thick and strong that it
was indeed perfectly impassable ; and no man of what
kind soever, would ever imagine that there was any-
thing beyOnd it, much less a habitation. As for the
way I proposed to myself to go in and out (for I left
no avenue), it was by setting two ladders; one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in,
and left room to place another ladder upon that: so
that when the two ladders were taken down, no man
living could come down to me without mischiefing
himself; and if they had come down, they were still
on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen,
at length, that they were not altogether without just
reason, though I foresaw nothing at that time, more
than fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats : they were not only a present
supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be
sufficient to me without the expense of powder and
shot, but also abated the fatigue of my hunting after
the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage
of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them: one was t)
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I
could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place, so that if any disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again
with little trouble and time: and this, though it would
require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was
the most rational design.

Accordingly I Spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one
which was private indeed as my heart could wish; for
it was a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the
hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, 1 almost
lost myself once before, endeavouring to come back
that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I
found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so sur-
rounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by
nature; at least it did not want near so much labour to
make it so, as the other pieces of ground I had worked
so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this iece of
ground; and, in less than a month's time, had so
fenced it round, that my flock or herd, call it which you
please, which were not so wild now as at first they might

e supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So,
without any further delay, I removed ten she-goats and
two he-goats to this piece ; and when they were there,
I continued to perfect the fence, till I made it as secure
as the other, which however I did at more leisure, and
it took me up more time by a great deal.

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a
man's foot which I had seen; "for as yet I never saw
any human creature come near the island; and I had
now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which
indeed made my life much less comfortable than it was
before, as may well be imagined by any who knows what
it IS to live in the constant snare of the fear of man;
and this I must observe with grief too, that the discom-
posure of my mind had too great impressions also upon
the religious part of my thoughts; for the dread and
terror of falling into the hands of savages and cannibals
lay so upon my Spirit-s, that I seldom found myself in
a due temper for application to my Maker, at least not
with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which
1 was wont to do.

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, 1 went about the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such ano-
ther deposit; when, wandering more to the west point
of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out
to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great
distance. I had found a perspective glass or two, in
one of the seamen's chests which I saved out of our
ship; but I had it not about me, and this was so re-
mote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look
any longer. Whether it was a boat or not, I do not
know; but as I descended from the hill, I could see
no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go
no more without a perspective glass in my pocket.

When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot- was not such a strange thing in the island as I
imagined; and, but that it was a special providence
that I was cast upon the side of the island where the
savages never came. I should easily have known that
nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from
the main, when they happened to be a little too far
out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour; likewise, as they often met, and fought in
their canoes, the victors. having taken any prisoners,
would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all eannibals, they
would kill and eat them : of which, hereafter.

When I was come cown the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the south-west point of the island, I
was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it pos-
sible for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human bodies, and particularly I observed a
place where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where, it is supposed,
the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notion of any danger to myself
from it for a long while. All my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature, which, though I had heard of often,
yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle, my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the oint of
faintinog when nature discharged the disorder rom my
stomadli; and, having vomited with an uncommon
violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to
stay in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill
again, with all the speed I could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile, as amazed; and, then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that I had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
creatures as these, and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given
me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to give
thanks for than to complain of; and this, above all,
that I had, even in this miserable condition, been com-
forted with the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of
his blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently
equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered, or
could suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before;
for I observed that these matches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting anything here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footste , s of human
creature there before ; and might be iere eighteen
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of
occasion to (lo--it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself
known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretchcs that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up. that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two
years after this. When I say my own circle, I mean
by it my three plantations--viz., my castle, my country
seat, which I called my bower, and my enclosure in the
woods; nor did I look after this for any other use than
as an enclosure for my goats: for the aversion which
natlu'e gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that
I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil
himself. Nor did I so much as go to look after my
boat all this time. but began rather to think of making
me another; for I could not think of ever making any
more attempts to bring the other boat round the island
to me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures
at sea, in which, if I had happened to have fallen into
their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these peo le, began
to wear off my uneasiness about them; and fbegan to
live just in the same composed manner as before--only
with this difference, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should
happen to be seen by any of them; and particularly I
was more cautious in firing my gun, lest any of them
being on the island should happen to hear it; and it
was, therefore, a very good providence to me that I had
furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that I
needed not hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at
them: and if I did catch any of them after this, it was
by traps and snares, as I had done before; so that for
two years after this, I believe I never fired my gun once
off, though I never went out without it; and, which
was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship,
I always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. I likewise
furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out
of the ship, and made me a belt to put it on also; so
that as I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if you add to the former descrip-
tion of myself the particular of two pistols, and a great
broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these things
tended to showing me, more and more, how far my
condition was from being miserable, com ared to some
others, nay, to many other particulars 0 life, which it
might have pleased God to have made my lot. It put
me upon reflecting how little repining there would be
among mankind, at any condition of life, if people
would rather compare their conditions with those that
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always
comparing them with those which are better, to assist
their murinurings and com lainings.

As in my present con ition there were not really
many thing which I wanted, so indeed I thought that
the frights'I had been in about these savage wretches,
and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own
conveniences; and I had dropped a good design, which

N
I had once bent my thoughts upon, and that 11 as, to
t1'1 if I could not make some. of my barley into malt,
and then fly to 111011' my self some beer. This was
really a whimsical thought, and I reprovcd myself often
for the simplicity of it: for Ipresently saw there would
be the want of se1e1al things necessary to the making
my beer that it 11011111 be impossible for me to supply: '
as, first, casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that,
as I have ol'1ser1ed already I could 1101 e1 compass; no,
though I spent. not many days. but 11' ceks, 11a1',1110nths,
in attempting it but to no purpose. In the next place
I had no h0ps to make it keep, 110 yeast to make it
work, no copper 01 kettle to make it boil, and 1ct had
not all these thing 5 intervened (I mean the frights and
terrors I 11 as in about the savages), I had undertaken it,
and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave
an1thi11g o1er111thout accomplishing it, when once I
had it in my head enough to begin it.
But my i111' entiou 110w ran quite another way; for
night and da1 I could think of nothing but 11011 I might
destroy some of these fmonsters in their c1 ucl bloody
entertainment, and fpossible, save the victim the1
should bring hither to dest1'01.It 11ould take up a
larger volume than this 11 hole 11"01k is intended to he,
to set down all the contrivanees I hatched, or rather
brooded upon, in many thoughts, for the destroying
these creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to
prevent their coming hither an1 more. but all was
abortive, nothing could be possible to take effect, un-
less I 11 as to be there to do it my self. 111d 11hat could
one man do among them, 11 hen, peihaps, there might
be twenty or thirty of them together 111th their darts,
or their bows and an 011 s, with which they could shoot
as true to a mark as I could with my gun.
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds
of 0111111011 dei, which, when they kindled thei1 fire,
11011111 consequently take fire. and blow up all that was

mean it. But as, in the fist place, I 11 as loath to spend
so much powder upon them, n11 store being now within
the quantity of one bancl so neither could I be sum of
its gomg off at any ceitain time, when it might surp1ise
them, and at best it 11011111 (10 little more than just
blow the fi1e about thei1 eais and f1ighten them, but
not sufficient to make them fo1sake 23the place, so I
laid it aside, and then proposed I should lay myself in
ambush, 111 some c0111 enicnt place, with my three guns,
all double loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceicmony lct 111 at them, when I should be sure to kill
01 11ou11d pe1hapst11o 01 t111 cc at e1 e1y shot, and then
falling in upon them 111th my three pistols and sw01d,
I made no doubt but that if the1e 11 ere twenty I should
kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
necks, and I 11 as so full that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I 11 as just going to let fly among them
in 1111 sleep.

I 11 cut so f 11 111th it in my imagination, that I cm-
ploy ed m1 self se1 0111 day s to find out a pi ope1 place to
put myself 1n ambuseade, as I said, to .1 atch for them ;
and I 11 cut frrequcntl1 to the place itself, which 11 as
no11 giown more familiar to me, and especially while
my mind 11 as thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and
of putting twenty or thi1ty of them to the SW 01d, as I
11111 call it; but the ho1ro1 I had at the place, and at
the signals of the barbaious 11 rctches devouring one
another, abated n malice.

Well, at length 1nyound a place 1n the side of the hill,
11here I 11' as satisfied I might securely wait till I saw
21111 of their boats coming, and might then, even before
they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself
unseen into the thickest of the t1ees, in one of which
them 11 as a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely,
and where I might sit and observe all their doings, and
take my full aim at tl1ei1 heads, when they were so
close together that it 11 ould be next to impossible that
I should miss 1111' shot, 01 that I could fail wounding
three or four of them at the {11 st fi1e.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and
accor'dingl1 Ip1 01)"1C(l t11'o muskets and my ordinary
f011 lino-piece. '111e t11o muskcts I loaded 111th a brace
of slugs each, and fem or five small bullets, about the
size 01 pistol bullets; and the fouling-piece I loaded
with nearly a hand-111 of swan shot, of the largest size.
I also loaded 1111' pistols 111th about four bullets each;
and in this posture, provided with ammunition for a
second and third charge, I prepared myself for my ex-
11cdition.

Aftc1 I had thus laid the scheme for 11111 design, and,
in 1111' imagination put it in practice, I continually made
1111' tour e1 er1' 111011111111 up to the top of the hill, 11hich
was from 1111' castle( as I called it) about three Iriiles, or
more, to see if I cmild observe any boats upon the sea
coming 110111 the islanl 01' standing over towards it;
but I began to tire 01 this hard duty, after I had for
N10 or tlnee months constantly kept 11atc11, and come
a111'a1 5 back without 11111 discov e11', there having not in
all that time been the least appca1ance, not only on 01'
mm the show, but not on the whole ocean, so far as
1111' e1 es or glasses could reach ev C111 11 av

As long as I l<e11t up the dail1 tour to the hill to
look out, so long also I kept up the 1igour of my de-
sign; and 1111' spiiits seemed to be all the 11l1i1e in a
suitable frame for such an outrageous execution as the
killing of t11ent1' or thn t1 naked savages.

I believe the 1c11dcr of this will not think it strange
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived 1n, and the concern that 11 as now upon me, Oput
an end to all mv cation, and to all the cont rivances that
I had laid for my future accommodation and conve-
uiences. I had the care of my safety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive
a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise
I made should be heard; much less would I fire a gun
for the same reason; and, above all, I was very uneasy
at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a
great distance in the day, should betray me; and for
this reason I removed that part of my business which
required fire, such as the burning of pots, pipes, &c.,
into my new apartment in the woods, where, after I
had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where I dare say no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to ven-
ture in; nor, indeed, would any one else but one who,
like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident I would say (if I
did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal.

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation,
as I said before, and yet I could not live there without
baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c.; so I contrived
to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal; and then
putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home,
and performed the other services for which fire was
wanting, without danger of smoke.

But this by the bye. While I was cutting down
some wood here, I erceived that, behind a very thick
branch of low brus -wood or under-wood, there was a
kind of a hollow place. I was curious to look into it,
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found
it was pretty large--that is to say, sufficient for me to

N3
stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me 3 out
I must confess to you I made more haste out than I
did in, when, looking farther into the place, which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some
creature, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light
from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making
the reflection.

However, after some pause I recovered myself; and
plucking up courage, I took up a great firebrand, and
in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand.
I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
friOhtened as I was before; for I heard a very loud
sig , like that of a man in some pain, and it was fol-
lowed by a broken noise, as if of words half expressed,
and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was .
indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into
a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I
would not answer for it that my hair had not lifted it
OK. But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could,
and encouraging myself a little with considering that
the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, I stepped forward again, and
by the light of the firebrand, holding it a little over my
head, I saw, lying on the grouod, a most monstrous
frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we say,
gas ing for life, and dying, indeed, of mere old age.

stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise
himself; and I thought with myself he might even he
there ; for if he had frightened me so, he would certainly
frighten any of the savages, if any of them should be so
11:1ng as to come in there, while he had any life in

m.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very
small; that is to say, it might be about twelve feet
over, but in no manner of shape, either round or square,
no hands having ever been employed in making it than
those of mere nature. I observed, also, that there was
a place at the further side of it that went in farther,
but it was so low that it required me to creep upon my
hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I
knew not; so, having no candle, I gave it over for
some time, but resolved to come again the next day,

 

provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had
made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some
wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day, I came rOVided With six
large candles of my own making, for {made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and going into this low
place I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards which, by the way, I thought
was a 1 enture hold enough, consule1 mo that I knew not
110w far it might go, or 11 hat was he) end it. When I
was ot through the strait, I found the 1001' 10se higher
up, believe 11ea1't11cnty feet, but ne1 e1 was such a
glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was,
to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave.
The walls 1efleeted a hundred thousand lights to me
from my two candles , what it was in the iock, whether
diamonds, or am othei precious stones, 01' gold, which
I supposed it to he, I knew not.

The place I 11 as in was a most delightful (.a11t1, or
grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, though pei-
tectlv daik; the 11001 was d1y and level, and had a sort
of sinall loose grav el upon it, so that there 11 as no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen; neither
was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The
only difficulty in it was the entrance, which however,
as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I
really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, 11 ithout
any delaJh to bring some of those things which I was

most anxious about to this place , particularly I re-
selv ed to biing hither my magazine of pow de1, and all
my spaie arms, 112., two f011 11110 p1eces (for I had three
inya11,) and three muskcts (fora of them I had eight in
all); so I kept at my castle only five, which c'stood

ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
fence, and were already to take out upon any expe-
dition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
was oblived to open the hand of powder which I took
up out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I.
found that the 11 ater had penetrated about three or four
inches into the powder on every side, which caking and
growing haid, had preserved the inside like a kernel 1n
a shell, so that I had sixty pounds of 1' eryg wood powder
in the centrerof the cask; and this was an agreeable
discovery to me at that time: so I carried all away
thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of
powder with me in my castle, for fear of a 5 rise of
any kind. I also carried thither all the lead I ad left
for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded my-
self, while I was here, if five hundred savages were to
hunt me, they could never find me out; or if they did
they would never venture to attack me.

The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave, the next day after I made this dis-
covery; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out: so I interred him there, to prevent
offence to my nose.

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, that I
began to he very well contented with the life I led, if
it might but have been secured from the dread of the
savages.

But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to
make this just observation from it; viz., how frequently,
in the course of our lives, the evil, which in itself we
seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very door
of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could
give many examples of this in the course of my unac-
countable life; but in nothing was it more particularly
remarkable, than in the circumstances of the last years
of my solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this being the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I
was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the
shore at a distance from me of about two miles, towards
the end of the island where I had observed some
savages had been as before; but not on the other side,
but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of the
island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no more peace
within from the apprehensions I had that if these
savages. in rambling over the island, should find my
corn standing, or cut, or any of my works or improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude that there
were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they foundnie out. In this extremity I went
back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after
me, having made all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians: and in this posture I con-
tinued about two hours, but began to be mighty im-
patient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to
send out.

After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting'in
ignorance longer; so setting up my ladder to the side
of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I observed
before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set
it up again, and mounted to the top of the lull ; and
pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taker.
on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there were no less than nine naked savages
sitting round a small fire they had made; not to warm
them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their
barbarous diet of human flesh, which they had brought
with them, whether alive or dead, I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up on the shore: and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to wait the return of the flood to go
away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion
this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on
my side the island, and so near me too 5 but when I
observed their coming must be always with the cur-
rent of the ebb, I began afterward to be sedate in my
mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with
safety, all the time of tide of flood, if they were not
on shore before; and having made this observation I
went abroad about my harvest-work with the more
composure.

As I expected so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it,) all away. I should have
observed, that for an hour and more before they went
ofl", they went to dancing, and I could easily discern
their postures and gestures by my glasses: I.could not
perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering 11 on them;

butwhether they were men or women, that could not
distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard,
and with all the speed I was able to make, I went away
to the hill, where I had discovered the first appearance
of all. As soon as I got thither, which was not less
than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so
loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been
three canoes more of savages on that place; and looking
out farther, I saw they were at sea together, making
over for the main.

This was a dreadful sight to me especially when
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
hor'rOr which the dismal work they had been about had
left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the
flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those
wretches with merriment and sport. I was so filled
with indignation at the sight, that I began now to pre-
meditate the destruction of the next that I saw there,
let them be who or how many soever.

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they
thus made to this island, were not very frequent; for
it was above fifteen months before any more of them
came on shore there again; that is to say, I never saw
them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that
time: for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure
not to come abroad, at least not so far; yet all this
while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant
apprehensions I was in of their coming upon me by
surprise; from whence I observe that the expectation
of evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if
there is no room to shake off that expectation, or those
apprehensions.

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour;
and took up most of my hours, which should have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them the very next time I should see them,
especially if they should be dwided, as they were at-
the last time, into two parties: nor did I consider at
all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen,
I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill
another, and so another, even ad infinitum, till I should
be no less a murderer than they were in being man~
eaters, and perhaps much more so.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety
of mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall
into the hands of these merciless creatures. If I did at
any time venture abroad, it was not without the greatest
care and caution imaginable; and now I found, to my
greatest comfort, how happy it was that I had provided
a tame flock or a herd of goats; for I durst not, upon
any account, fire my gun, especially near that side of
the island, where they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was
sure to have them come back again, with perhaps two
or three hundred canoes with them, in a few days, and
then I knew what to expect.

However I wore out a year and three months more,
before I ever saw any more of the savages; and then
I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is
true, they might have been there once or twice; but
either they made no stay, or at least I did not hear
them; but in the month of May, as near as I could
calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had
alvery strange encounter with them, of which in its
p ace.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval was very great. I slept un-
quiet, dreaming always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night; in the day great
troubles overwhelmed my mind; in the night I
dreamed often of killing savages, and the reasons why

0
I might justify the doing of it. But, to waive all this
for a while, it was in the middle of May, on the six-
teenth day, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon; for I marked all upon the post still : I say, it
was on the sixteenth of May, that it blew a very great
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning
and thunder. and a very foul night was after it. I
know not what was the particular occasion of it; but
as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was
surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at
sea.

This ms. to be sure, a surprise of quite a different
nature from any I had met with before; for the notions
this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable; and, in
a triee, chipped up my ladder to the middle place of
the rock. and pulled it after me. and, mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill; that very
moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a second gun,
which accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard;
and by the sound knew that it was from that part of
the sea where I was driven out with the current in my
boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in company, and fired these guns for
signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had the
presence of mind at that minute, as to think that,
though I could not help them, it may be they might
help me; so I brought together all the dry wood I
could get at hand, and, making a good handsome pile,
I set it on fire upon the hill, the wood was dry, and
blazed freely; and though the wind blew very hard,
yet it burnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there
was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it,
and no doubt they did; for as soon as my fire blazed
up, I heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night
long, till day broke: and when it was broad day, and
the air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance
at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail, or a hull,
I could not distinguish, no not with my glasses, the
distance was so great, and the weather still something
hazy also : at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, an(
ran towards the south-east part of the island, to the
rocks, where I had been formerly carried away with the
current; and getting up there, the weather by this time
being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great
sorrow, the wreck of a ship east away in the night upon
these concealed rocks, which I, had found when out
in my boat : and which rocks, as they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-
stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering
then from the most desperate, hopeless condition that
ever I had been in all my life.

Thus, what is one man's safety, is another man's
destruction ; for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the
night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E. Had
they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they
did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their firing of their guns for help, especially
when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with
many thoughts. First, I imagined that, upon seeing
my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore, but
that the sea going very high, they might have been
cast away. Other times I imagined that they might
have lost their boat before, as might be the case many
ways; as particularly by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliged men to stave, or
take in pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw it
overboard with their own hands. Other times I ima-
gined they had some other ship or ships in company,
who, upon the signals of distress they had made, had
taken them up, and carried them off. Other whiles I
fancied they were. all gone off to sea, and, being
hurried away by the current that I had been formerly
in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishing ; and that perhaps
they might, by this time, think of starving, and of being
in a. condition to eat one another.

It was not, however, till the last year of my being in
this island. that I ever knew whether any were saved
out of that ship or no: and had only the affliction,
some days after. to see the corpse of a drowned boy
come on shore, at the end of the island which was next
the shipwreck. He had on no clothes but a scaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a
blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as
to guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in
his pocket but two pieces of eight, and a tobacco-pipe ;
the last was to me of ten times more value than the
first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find something on board that might be useful to me;
but that did not altogether press me so much as the
possibility that there might be yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but might,
by savmg that life, comfort my own to the last degree:
and this thought clung so to my heart, thatI could not
be quiet, night or day, but I must venture out on board
this wreck; and, committing the rest to God's pro-
vidence, I thought the impression was so strong upon
my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must
come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took
a quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a com-
pass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great
deal of that left) and a basket full of raisins: and thus
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down
to my boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again
for more. My second cargo was a great bag full of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another
large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of
small loaves, or barley cakes, more than before, with a
bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all which, with '
great labour and sweat, I brought to my boat, and
praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and
rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, 'I came
at last to the utmost point of the island, on that side,
viz. N. E. And now I was to launch out into the
ocean; and either to venture, or not to venture. I
looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on
both sides of the island, at a distance, and which were
very terrible to me, from the remembrance of an hazard
I had been in before, and my heart began to fail me;
for I foresaw that, if I were driven into either of those
currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and
perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island again;
and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little
gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began

o 3 '
to give over m1 enterprise, and, having hauled my
boat into a little creek 011 the shore, I stepped out, and
sat me do11n upon a little spot of risino ground, very
pensive and anxious, between fear and: desi1e, about
my 701' age; 11 hen, as I was musing, Icould perceive
that the tide 11 as turned, and {he flood came on,11 )on
which my going 11 as for so many hours impractica le.
1Up0n this, it presently occurred to me that I should go
up to the highest piece of ground I could 11nd, and

observe, if I could, how the sets of the tides or currents
la1', 11' hen the flood came in, that I might judge whether,
if I were (1" 1'1 e11 one 11' ay out, I might not expect to be
driven another 11 '11 home, with the same rapidness of
the currents. This thought 11 as no sooner in my head,
but I cast my eye upon a little hill, 11 Inch snfl'iciently
overlooked the s a both ways, and from whence I had
a cleai 1'ie11 of the cuncnts, or sets of the tide, and
11hicl1 11 M I 11 as to guide 1111 self 111 my 1eturn.IIere
I found that as the current of the ebb set out close by
the south point (1': the island, so the current of the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side , and that I
had nothing to do, but to keep to the north of the
island 111 1111' retum, and I should do 11 ell enough.

Encoru'aged 111th this ohser1ation, I resolved the
next morning, to set out 11itl1 the first of the tide;
and reposing m1 self for that night under the gieat
11 atch coat I mentioned I launched out. I made first
a little 11' 111' out to sea, full north, till I beg an to feel
the benefit of the current which set east11' aid, and
11hich carried me at a great rate, and 1et did not so
much hur11' me as the southern side current had done
before, and so as to take from me all government of
the boat: but having a strong steerage t'11'ith m1 pad-
dle, I 11' ent, I say , at a :great rate, directly for the wreck,
and in less than t11o hom's I came up to it.

It 11 as a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which by
the building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in between
two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her were beaten
-0 pieces by the sea; and as her forecastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her
mainmast and foremast were brought by the board, =
that is to say, broken short off ; but her bows rit was
sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. Vhen I
came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing
me coming, yelpcd and cried; and as soon as I called
nim, jumped into the sea to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead for
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and
he eat like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a
fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water; with which, if I would have let him,
he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board. The first sight I met
with, was two men drowned in the cock-room, or
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that,
when the ship struck, it being a storm, the sea broke
so high, that the men were not able to bear it, and
were strangled with the constant rushing in of the
water, as much as if they had been under water. Be-
sides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that
had life; not any goods that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks
of liquor, whether wine or brandy, I knew not, which
lay in the lower hold, and which, the water being
cbbed out, I could see; but they were too big to med-
dle with. I saw several chests, which, I believed,
belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two of
tfiem in the boat, without examining what was in
t em.

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore
part broken ofi', I am persuaded I might have made a
00d voyage ; for, by what I found in these two chests,

had room to suppose the. ship had a great deal of
wealth on board: and, if I may guess by the course
she steered. she must have been bound from Buenos
Ayres, or the Roi de. la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the
Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps, to Spain. She had,
no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that
time, to anybody; and what became of the rest of her
people, I knew not.

I found, hesides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets
in a cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about four
pounds of powder in it: as for the muskets I had no
occasion for them: so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire shovel and tongs, which
I wanted extreme; ; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again: and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached the island again,
weary and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat; and in the morn-
ing I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new
:ave, not to carry it home to my castle. After re-
freshing myself, I. got all my cargo on shore, and be-
gan to examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I
found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at
the Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good. But
when I came to open the chests, I found several
things which I wanted: for example, I found in one
afine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good: the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succades,
or sweetmeats, so fastened also on top, that the salt
water had not hurt them; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled. I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a
dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs, and
coloured neckeloths; the former also were very wel-
come, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face
in a hot dav. Besides this, when I came to the till in
the chest, 'I found there three great bags of pieces of
eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all;
and in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, Six doubloons
of gold, and some small bars of wedges of gold; I
suppose they might all weigh near a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value; but by the circumstances it must have
belonged to the gunner's mate, though there was no
powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder,
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for chargin
their fouling-pieces on occasions. Upon the whole,
got very little by this voyage, that was of much use to
me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion
for it, it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I
would have given it all for three or four pair of English
shoes and stockings; which were things I greatly
wanted, but had not had on my feet now for many
years. I had, indeed, gotten two pair of shoes now,
which I took off the feet of the two drowned men
whom I saw in the wreck; and I found two pair more
in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me ;
but they were not like our English shoes, either for
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this Seaman's chest about fifty
pieces of eight in royals, but no gold; I suppose this

elonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed
to belong to some ofiicer.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it. up, as I had done that before, which
I had brought. from our own ship ; but it was a great.

pitv, as I s: 1111. that the otl er part of the ship had not

come to 1:1." share, for I 11111 satisfied I 1111g11t have
loaded 11111-111100 sevr'e 111 times over with money;
which, had I 1'1'1'1'111111 to 13119: 111111, 1"011ld have
laid here safe e111111gh,11111 1gnih'1; have come again
and fetched 1?.

Having: 11011' 11: 01:21:15 9.11 1111' things 01. shore. and
secured .11. :11. I 1t :1111el: t0 1:11'11011t. .1111 rowed 01'
paddled 1:1. (1111': the .hore to her 0'. 11 l!f'.1"l)()1!1,\'.'l101"'
I laid 1131' 1111. and undo the best 01' 1111' 1" 111' to 1111' old
habitation, 1'-11r-1" Ii 111111 1d 0111" thine: sate and qi1iet;
so I bet-.1 "- .11 to 1'1 110s ' 111'.'selt,li1'e after 1111' old fashion,
and take ':'1'. of 1111'la11'1ilvafi'1'irs; and for :1 11111.0 I
111 ed easv 111011 111, 01111' that I was more 112111111: than
I used to h'. 1.1011111 0111; 01 "ten and did not :10 abroad
so m .1eh , and i: at. . 1" time I did stir with 11111 free-
dom, it 11'11s1111'111's to the east part of the islano, where
I was p1'ett1'1'.e l satisfied the savages nev er 0111110, and
where I eoull go 11't'101t so 11111111 preea1 1tions, and
such a 101.' 11 1 1 arms and ammunition as I air.'j11.'s1(':1'ried
with me it I 1'. out the other 11 :1_. .

Ilived in this ('01 .dition near two 1'e1n'11'101'e; but
my unluehv head that. was alw. '11's to lo 1101 ignow it
was bornt to 11121110 1111' body miserable, ':11s all those
two 1ears filled with projects and desizrns,l'o11',if it
were possible. I mioh t get a11111' from this isl. .1111; for
sometimes I 11 as making another 1'o1age to the meek,
though my reason told me, that thei'e was nothing: left.
there worth the hazard of 1111' 1'01' age, - sometimes fora
ramble one 11:11:, sometimes a110t1er- and I believe
veril1',ii I11 ad had the boat that I went from Sallee
in, I should have ventured to sea bound am 11 new. I
know not whither.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into my castle,

('3' (It
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up,
and secured under water as usual, and condition re-
stored to what it was before. I had more wealth, in-
deed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer
for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru
had before the Spaniards came thither.

About a year and a half after I was surprised one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes, all
on shore together, on my side the island, and the people
who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures; for see-
ing so many, and knowing they always came four or
six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what
to think of it, or how to take my measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so I lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I
put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for
action, if anything had presented. Having waited a
good while, listening to hear if they made any noise,
at length being very impatient, I set my guns at the
foot of the ladder, and clambered up to the top of the
hill by my two stages, as usual; standing so, however,
that my head did not appear above the hill; so that
they could not perceive me, by any means. Here I
observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that
there were no less than thirty in number; that they
had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed:
how they cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was;
but they were all dancing, in I know not how many
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were
now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of
them immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose,
with a club, or 11 ooden sword, for that 11 as their wa3 ,
and two 01 three others were at 11' 01k immediatel3,
cutting him open for their cookery, while the other
victim 11 as left standing by himself, till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment this poor 111'etch
seeing himself a little at liberty, nature inspired him
with hopes of life, and he started away from them, and
ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, d11ectly
tona1ds me, I mean t011ards that part of the coast
where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frightened (that I must acknow-
ledge), 11'hen I perceived him to run my way; and
especially when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by
the whole bod3. However, I kept my present station,
and m3 spiiits began to reco1'er,11hen I fo1md that
he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained
ground of them, so that if he could but hold it out
about half an hour, I saw easily he 11 ould get 2111 av
from them all.

Theie was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first pa1t of my stor3 ,
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship , and this I
knew he must necessa1ily swim over, or the poor
11retch 11011111 be taken there: but 11 hen the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, S11 am
through 111 about thirty strokes, or thereabout, landed,
and ran on with exceeding strength and sm'ftness.
When the th1ee pursuers came to cthe creek, I found
that two of them could s111m, but the third could not,
and that he standing 011 the other side, looked at the
others, but 11 ent no farther, and soon after 11' ent softly
back again, 11hich as it happened, was very well for
him in the main.

I observed that the two who swam, were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek, as the
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly,
that now was my time to get me a servant, and per-
haps a companion or assistant, and that I was called

lainly by Providence, to save this poor creature's life.
I immediately got down the ladders, with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both
at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above; and
getting up again with the same haste to the top of
the hill, I crossed towards the sea: and, having a
very short cut all down hill, clapped myself in the
way between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing
aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was per-
haps as much frighted at me as at them; but I beck-
oned with my hand to him to come back, and, in the
mean time, I slowly advanced towards the two that
followed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my piece : I was
loath to fire, because I would not have the rest hear;
though at that distance it would not have been easily
heard ; and being out of sight of the smoke too they
would not easily know what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him
st00ped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced
apace towards him ; but as I came nearer, I perceived
presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it
to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his enemies fallen and killed (as he thought),
yet was so frighted with the fire and noise of my piece,
that he stood stock-still, and neither came forward,
nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined
to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward, which he easily un-
derstood, and came a little way, then stopped again,

P
and then a little farther, and stopped again; and I
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he
had been taken prisoner, and had just been about to be
killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned him
again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of
encouragement I could think of; and he came nearer '
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps,
in token or acknowledgment for saving his life.
smiled at him and looked pleasantly, :uid beckoned to
him to come still nearer. At length he came close to
me. and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground
and laid his head upon the ground, and taking me by
the foot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems,
was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I
took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged
him all I could. But there was more work to do yet;
for I perceived the savage whom I knocked down was
not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to
come to himself. So I pointed to him, and showing
him the savage, that he was not dead; upon this he
spoke some words to me, and though I could not un-
derstand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
hear, for they were the first sound of a man's voice
that I had heard, my own excepted, for above five-
and-twenty years. But there was no time for such
reflections now. The savage who was knocked down
recovered himself so far as to sit upon the ground:
and I perceived my savage began to be afraid: but
when he saw that I presented my other piece at the
man, as if I would shoot him; upon this my savage,
for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend ;
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my
side; so I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to
his enemy, and, at one blow, cut oii' his head as
cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have done 5
1t sooner or better; which I thought very strange for
one, who I had reason to believe, never saw a sword
in his life before, except their own wooden swords.
However, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they
make their wooden. swords so sharp, so heavy, and
the wood is so hard, they will cut off heads even with
them, aye, and arms, and that at one blow too. When
he had done this, he comes laughing at me in signs of
triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with
abundance of gestures, which I did not understand,
laid it down, with the head of the savage that he
had killed, just before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know
how I had killed the other Indian so "far off ; so
pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
aim ; so I bade him go, as well as I could. When
he came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at
him ; turned him first on one side, then on the other;
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which, it
seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a
hole, and no great quantity of blood had flowed, but
he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. Then
he took up his bows and arrows, and came back; so I
turned to go away, and beckoned to him to follow me,
making signs to him that more might come after them.

Upon this, he signed to me, that he should bury
them with sand, that they miOht not be seen by the
rest, if they followed; and so I made signs again to
him to do so: he fell to work, and in an instant he
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough
to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so also by the other. I believe
he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour;
then calling him away, I carried him, not to my castle,
but quite away to my cave, on the farther part of the
island: so I did not let my dream come to pass in
that part, viz. that he came into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was in-
deed 1n reat distress for, by his running: and having
refreshe him, I made signs for him to go lie down
and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great
parcel of r1ce str',a11 and a blanket upon it, which I
used to sleep upon my self somet1mes so the poor crea-
ture lay down, and went to sleep.

He 11 as a comel1', handsome fellow; perfectly well
made, with straight, long limbs, not too large, tall,
and well--shaped? and as OI reckon, about t11e11t1-s11:
years of age. He had a veryg o'ood countenance, not a
fierce and casurl1' aspect, but seemed to have something
1'er1'manl1' 1n his face, and yet he had all the sweet-
ness and softness of an European in his countenance
too, especially when he smiled. His hair 11as long
and black not culled like 11001, his fmehead 1"er1
high, and large, and a great vi1'acit1' and sparkling
sharpness 111 his e1' cs. The colour of his skin was not
quite black but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly,
1'ellow nauseous tawny, as the B1azilians, .1111 1'1}-
ginians, and other natives of America are, but of a
bright kind of a dun olive colour, that had 111 it some-
thing 1'er1' agreeable, though not 1erv easy to describe.
His face 11 as round and plump, his nose small not
flat like the Negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips,
and his teeth fine, well set, and 11hite as i1'o11'. After
he had slumbeied, rather than slept, about half an
hour he waked again, and comes out of the cave to
me, for I had been milking m1 goats, which I had m
the enclosu1e just by. 'When he espied me he came
running to me, laying himself down again upon the
ground, with all the possible signs of an humble,
thankful disposition, making many antic gestures to
show it. At last he by 5 his head flat upon the ground,
close to 1111' foot, and sets my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before : and after this, made all
the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submis-
sion imaginable, to let me know how much he would
serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in
many things, and let him know I was very well pleased
with him. In a little time I began to speak to him,
and teach him to speak to me ; and first, I made him
understand his name should be Friday, which was the
day I saved his life ; and I called him so for the me-
mory of the time ; I likewise taught him to say,
' Master,' and let him know that was to be my name.
I likewise taught him to say, ' Yes,' and ' No,' and to
know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in
an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a cake
of bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with
and made signs that it was very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as
it was day, l beckoned to him to come with me, and
let him know I would give him some clothes : at
which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where we had buried the two
men, he pointed exactly to the spot, and showed me
the marks that he had made to find them again, mak-
ing signs to me that he would dig them up again and
eat them; at this I appeared very angry, expressed
my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the
thoughts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to
come away, which he did immediately with great sub-
mission. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to
see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they
had been, but no appearance of them, or of their canoes;
so that is was plain that they were gone, and had left

their two comrades behind them, without any search
after them.

P3
But I was not content with this discovery ; but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and ar'rows at his
back, whichI found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self, and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the
plac', my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk within me at the horror of the spectacle.
Indeed it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made nothing of it : the place was
covered with human bones, the ground dyed with the
blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there, half
eaten mangled and scorched; and, in short all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making
there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs
and feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies;
and Friday, by his signs made me understand that
they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that
three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to
himself, was the fourth ; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, whose sub-
jects, it seems, he had been one of; and that they had
taken a great number of prisoners, all which were car-
ried to several places by those that had taken them in
the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done
here by these wretches upon those they brought hi-
ther.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a
heap, and make a fire upon it and burn them all to
ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his
nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thought of it, and at the least appearance of it,
that he (lurst not discover it; for I had, by some
means, let him know, that I would kill him if he
offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday. And
first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had out of the gunner's chest I had mentioned, and
which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well: then I made him a
jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow,
and I was now grown a tolerably good tailor; and I
gave him a cap, which I had made of a hare-skin,
very convenient, and fashionable enough: and thus
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well; and
mightily was he pleased to see himself almost as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly
in these things at first; wearing the drawers was
very awkward to him; and the sleeves of the waist-
coat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms;
but a little easino them where he complained they hurt
him, and using himself to them, at length he took to
them very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him I began to consider where I should lodge him:
and thatzI might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him, in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last, and in the outside of the first: and as there
was a door of entrance there into my cave, I made a
formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in the passage, 9. little within the entrance;
and, causing the door to open on the inside, I barred
it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that
Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my
innermost wall, without making so much noise in get-
ting over, that it must needs awaken me; for my first
wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles.
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill, which was again laid cross with small sticks instead
of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with
the rice straw, which was strong like reeds; and at the
hole, or place which was left to go in or out by the
ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it
had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made
a great noise: and as to weapons, I took them all in to
my side every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution ; for never
had man a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me ; without passions, sullenncss, or
design; perfectly obliged and engaged; his very aifec-
tions were tied to me, like those of a child to a father;
and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the
saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. The many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt,
and soon convinced me, that I needed to use no pre-
cautions as to my safety on his account.

I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my
business to teach him all that was proper to make him
useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to make him
speak, and understand me when I spoke ; and he was
the aptest scholar that ever was, and particularly was
so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when
he could but understand me, or make me understand
him, that it was very pleasant for me to talk to him.
And now my life began to be so easy, that I began to
say to myself, that could I but have been safe from
more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove
from the place while I lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought, that in order to bring Friday ofi'
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh. So I took him out with me one morning to the
woods; I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it: but, as
I was going, I saw a she-goat, lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. I caught hold of
Friday; "IIold," said I: " stand still ;" and made
signs to him not to stir : immediately I presented my
piece, shot and killed one of the kids. The poor crea-
ture who had, at a distance, indeed seen me kill the
savage, his enemy, but did not know nor could imagine
how it was done, was sensibly su rised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, giat I thought he
would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I had
shot at, nor perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his
waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I
found presently, thought I was resolved to kill him;
for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing
my knees, said a great many things I did not under-
stand; but I could easily see, that his meaning was to
pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and, taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did ; and while he was wondering and looking to see
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again,
and by-and-by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon
a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I would do, I called him to me again, pointing at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought
it had been a hawk ; I say, pointing to the parrot and
to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him see I would make lnm fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird: accordingly, I
fired, and made him look, and immediately he saw the
parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all that I had said to him; and I found
he was the more amazed, because he did not see me
put anything into the gun; but thought there must be
some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or far
oii'; for the astonishment this created him was such as
could not wear off for some time; and I believe, if I
would have let him, he would have worshipped me and.
my gun: as for the gun itself, he would not so much
as touch it for several days after; but would speak to
it, and talk to it as if it had answered him, when he
was by himself, which, as I afterwards learned of him,
was to desire it not to kill him.

'Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot,
which he did, but staid some time ; for the parrot, not
being quite dead, had fluttered a good way 03' from
the place where she fell. However, he found her,
took her up, and brought her to me; and as I had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took
this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let
him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other
mark that might present; but nothing more offered at
that time. So I brought home the kid, and the same
evening I took the skin oil", and cut it out as well as I
could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or
stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good
broth: after I had begun to eat some I gave some to
my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very
well; but that which was strangest to him was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me, that the
salt was not good to eat, and putting a little into his

own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit
and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water
after it; on the other hand, I took some meat in my
mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter
for want of salt. as fast as he had done at the salt: but
it would not do; he would never care for salt with
meat, or in his broth, at least, not for a great while
and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid : this I did by hanging it before the
fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side the fire,
and one cross on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
liked it, that I could not but understand him: and at
last, he told me he would never eat man's flesh any
more. which I was very glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I observed before; and he soon understood how to do
it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of ;
for after I had let him see me make my bread, and
bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able to do
all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that, having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
used to do, so I marked out a larger piece of land, and
began to fence in the same manner as before, in which
Friday not only worked very willingly, and very hard,
but did it very cheerfully; and I told him what it was
for, that it was for corn to make more bread, because
he was now with me, and that I might have enough for
him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of
that part, aiul let me know that he thought I had much
more labour upon me on his account bthan I had for
m1 self, and that he would work the harder for me, if I
would tell him what to do.

This 11 as the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday began to talk pretty 11',ell and
understand the names of almost ever thing I had oc-
casion to call for. and of every place I had to send him
to, and talk a great deal to me : so that in short I be-
gan now to have some use for my tongue again, which
indeed I had 1' my little occasion for before, that is to

sa1, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to
him, I had a singular satisfaction 111 the fello11 himself:
his simple, unleigned honesty, apnezued to be mom and
more every day, and I began really to love the creature;
and, on his side, I believe he loved me m01e than it was
possible for him ever to love anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his o11n country again , and banner
taught him English so 11ell that he could answer me
almost any questions, I asked whether the nation that
he belonged to ne1 er conquered 1n battle. At which he
smiled, and said," Yes, yes: 11e al11a1's fight the
better," that 15, he meant, al11'a1s get the better in
fight: and so we began the following zDdiscoulse. ' You
always fight the better! " said I: " How came you to
be taken: p1isone1 then, Friday? "

F1ida1'. M1 nation beat much for all that

Master Hon beat ? If your nation beat them, how
came 1011 to be taken?

F1 ida1 The1 more than my nation in the place
11'l1e1e me 11 as they take one, two, three, and me.
M1 nation ove1-beat them 1n the yonder place, where

me no 11asztheze my nation take one, two great
thousand.Ronxxsorz CRUSOE. 169

Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then?

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe: my nation have no canoe that
time.

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take ? Do they carry them away,
and eat them as these did ?

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

Master. Where do they carry them ?

Friday. Go to other place where they think.

Master. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, them come hither: come other
else plase.

Master. Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N.W. side
of the island, which it seems was their side.)

By this I understand that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who used to come on
shore, on the farther part of the island, on the said
man-eating occasion that he was now brought for :
and some time after, when I took courage to carry
him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
he presently knew the place, and told me he was there
once, when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child : he could not tell twenty in English, but he
numbered them by laying so many stones in a row,
and pointing to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows: that, after I had had this discourse with him,
I asked him how far' it was from our island to the
shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost. He
told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but
that, after a little way out to sea, there was a current,

and a wind always one way in the morning, the other
in the afternoon.

0.
This I understand to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterwards
understod it was occasioned by the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoquc ; in the mouth
of which river, as I thought afterward, our island lay;
and that this land which I perceived to the W. and
N.'W., was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a
thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants,
the sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told
me all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several nations of his
sort of people. but could get no other name than
Caribs; from whence I easily understood, that these
were the Caribbees which our maps place on that part
of America which re, chcs from the mouth of the river
Oreonoque to Guinea, and onward to St. Martha.-
He told me, tnat up a great way beyond the moon,
that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must
be west from their country, there dwelt white-bearded
men, like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which
I mentioned before; and that they had killed "much
mans," that was his word; by all which I understood he
meant the Spaniards, whose crueltics in America had
been spread over the whole countries, and were re-
membered by all the nations, from father to son.

Iinquircd if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men ; he
told me yes, yes, I might go in "two canoe." I could
not understand what he meant by " two canoe :" till at
last, with great difficulty, I found he meant, that it
must be in a large, great big canoe, as big as two
canoes.

This part of Friday's discom'se began to relish with
me very well : and from that time I entertained some
hopes, that, one time or other, I might find an Oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me,_and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked
him one time, who made him. The poor creature did
not understand me at all, but thought I had asked
who was his father. But I took it by another handle,
and asked him who made the sea, the ground he
walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me, it
was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He
could describe nothing of this great person, but that
.he was very old ; much older, he said, than the sea or
the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him
then, if this old person had made all things, why did
not gall things worship him. He looked very grave,
and with a perfect look of innocence, said, "All things
said O ! to him." I asked him if the people who die
in his country, went anywhere. He said, yes, they all
went to Benamuckee. Then I asked him, whether
those they eat up went thither : he said, "' Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards
heaven: that he governs the world by the same power
and providence by which he had made it; that he was
omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us: and thus, by degrees, I
opened his eyes. He listened with great attention,
and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
pur prayer to God, and his being able to hear us, even
m heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could
hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater

God than their Benamnckee, who lived but a little way
Q 2
off, and yet could not hear, till they went up to the
great mountains 'where he dwelt, to speak to him. I
asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him: he
said, no; they never went that were young men; none
went thither but the old men, whom he called their
Oowokee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say 0 (so
he called saying prayers), and then came back, and told
them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed,
that there is a priestcraft even amongst the most
blinded, ignorant Pagans in the world; and the policy
of making a secret religion, in order to preserve the
veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only to
be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions
in the world, even among the most brutish and barba-
rous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday, and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say 0 to their God
Benamuckee, was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said, was much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spoke with any one there,
it must be with an evil spirit: and then I entered into
a long discourse with him about the devil, the original
of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man,
the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark
parts of the world to be worshipped instead of God, and
as God, and the many stratagems he made use of to
delude mankind to their ruin: how he had secret ac-
cess to our passions, and to our affections, adapted his
snares so to our inclinations, as to cause us to be our
tempters, and to run upon our own destruction, by our
own choice.

I always applied myself to reading the Scriptures,
and to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning

of what I read; and he again, by his serious inquiries
and questions, made me a much better scholar in the
Scripture knowledge than I should ever have been by
my own mere private reading. _

After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
said to him, and speak .fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story,
or at least so much of it as related to my coming into
the place, how I had lived there, and how long. I let
him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of gun-
powder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I
gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted
with, and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and, in the
frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only a good weapon in some cases, but much
more useful upon many occasions. .

I described to him the countries of Europe, and par-
ticularly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I
had been on board of, and showed him, as near as I
could, the place where she lay; but she was beaten in
pieces long before, and quite gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which was lost
when I escaped, and which I could not stir with my _
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it
was he studied upon; at last, says he, "Me see such
boat like come to place at my nation."

I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I examined further into it, I understood by him,
that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon
the country where he lived; that is, as he explained it,

Q3
was driven there by stress of weather. I presently
imagined, that some European ship must have been
cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose
and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once
thought of men making escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they mightcome ; so I only inquired
after a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him when he added,
with some warmth, " We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him if there were
any white mans. as he called them, in the boat: "Yes,"
he said, "the boat full of white mans." I asked him,
" How many?" He told me, upon his fingers, seven-
teen. I asked him then, "What became of them?"
He told me, " They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts again into my head; forI

presently imagined, that these might be the men he-
onging to the ship that was cast away in sight of my
island, as I now call it; and who, after the ship was
struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitable loss,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed
upon that wild shore among the savages.

Upon thisI inquired 0 him more critically, what
was become of them: he assured me they lived still
there; that they had been there about f01u' years; that
the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to
live. I asked him, how it came to pass they did not
kill them, and eat them. He said, 'No, they make bro-
ther with them 3' that is, as I understood him, a truce :
and then he added, 'They eat no mans, but when
make the war fight ;' that is to say, they never eat any
men, but such as come to fight with them, and are
taken in battle.

It was after this, some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island,
from whence I had, in a clear day, discovered the main
or continent of America; Friday, the weather being
verv serene, looks very earnestly towards the main
land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance
from him: I asked him what was the matter. ' 0
joy !' says he, ' O glad! There see my country".
there my nation!'

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure ap-
pear in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his coun-
tenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had
a mind to be in his own country again ; and this ob-
servation of mine put a great many thoughts into me,
which made me at first not so easy about my new man
Friday, as I was before; and I made no doubt, but
that if Friday could get back to his own nation again
he would not only forget all his religion, but all his
obligation to me; and would be forward enough to
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back
perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and make a
feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as they
used to be with those of his enemies when they were
taken in war.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterward: however as my
jealously increased, and held me some weeks, I was a
little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before : in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest grateful creature having no thought
about it, but what consisted of the best princi les, both
as a relio'ious Christian, and as a grateful riend, as
appeared afterward to my full satisfaction.

Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure
I was every day pumping him to see if he would dis-
cover any of the new thou hts which I suspected were
in him ; but I found every lining he said was honest, and

'(
so innocent thatI could find nothing to nourish my
suspicion; and 111 spite of all my uneasiness, he made
me at last entirely his 01111 again, deg nor did he in th
least perceive, that I 11.15 uneasy- , and therefore I
could not suspect him of deceit.

One do 1' 11all1mo' up the same hill, but the 11 eat 1e1'
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the con-
tinent, I called to him, and said' Friday, do not 1011
111sh yourself in 1' our own country, y our own nation?

' Yes,' he said, I be much 0 glad to be at n11r'011'n
nation.' ' II hat 11011111 you do the1""c - said I: 11011113
you turn 11'ild aO'ain, eat man s flesh again, and be
savage as 1'011 11 e11. before?' He looked full of concem,
and shaking his head, said, 'No, no; Friday tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat
torn-bread, cattlc- flesh, milk: n0 eat man again.'

' Why then,' said I to him, ' they 11'i11ckill you.'
He looked g1a1'e at that, and then said, 'No, they no
kill me, they 11illing love learn.' He meant by this
they would be willing to learn: he added they learned
much of the bearded mans that came in the boat. Then
I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled
at that, and said he could not s111m so far. I told him
I would make a canoe for him, he told me he 11011113
go, if I would go with him. 'I go. " said I, 'whv the)"
11111 eat me, if I come ther.e' 'No, no,' said he,' me
make them not eat you: me make they much love you.
He meant he would tell them how I had killed his
enemies, and saved his life, and so he would make
them love me. Then he told me, as 11 ell as he could,
how kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded
men, as he called them, who came on shore there in
distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join 11' ith these
bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards
or Portu uese; not doubting, but, if I could, we
might fin some method to escape from thence, being
upon the continent, and a good company together,
better than I could from an island, forty miles off the
shore, and alone without help. So, after some days,
I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse; and
told him, I would give him a boat to go back to his
own nation; and accordingly carried him to my fri-
gate, which lay on the other side of the island; and
having cleared it of water (for I always kept it sunk in
the water), I brought it out, and showed it him, and
we both went into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as fast again as I could;
so when he was in it, I said to him, 'Well, now, Fri-
day, shall we go to your nation?' He looked very
dull at my saying so; which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him
then I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the
place where the first boat lay which I had made, but
whichI could not get into the water. He said that
was big enough; but then as I had taken no care of
it, and it had lain two or three-and-twenty years there,
the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner
rotten.' Friday told me, that such a boat would do
very well, and would carry 'much enough vittle, drink,
bread ;' that was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not
one word, and looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him. He asked me
avain thus, 'Why you angry mad with Friday?
what me done?' I asked him what he meant : I told
him I was not angry with him at all. ' No angry!
l\o angry. " 521.15 he. repeating the words 501111.211 'i 1211 .'-
'11111' send I"'11:2l11' home 1111 '11 to 1111' nation 1" ' "121'
said I. 11"1i2l-1._1'. did you not 5211' 1011 11'i5-1L1d 1'01111'
there? " 'Yes, 1'50 .' 5115 he, '11'1511 11'e hot"1 tliere. -
11i5h I1'ridz11 11121:. no 111:1 ster there.' I11 :1 11'01' 1.

would not 11'-111.: of 2.:oi1121'the1'e11it'110ut me. ' I 5:0

(here. l"ri2l:'._1' ;' 5:1id l:'11l121.t should I do there?'
He tu1'1112d 1"'L'1_1 (rule-12111100111110:1t this: 'You 2.2.1
3.1":112'de211111.1:-.-1 good.' 52115 112.1: '1'011 te:-1Ll1 11.1121 1: 1:111:
he "-00.1 52111.1 221.111L man: you tell them 1211011' (.2021. -
11112216021. 211.121l .11'21 112.111'liiL1."-&l:15! I"rid:11' , 521121 1',
'thou 1211011115: not 1"112't tho: 5:11'L'5t: I 21111 but .'.'.'.
1211211322112 12212112115011?'12'5, 1'L'5,' 5211's he. ' 11:21.

teach-11011.10 2x12121101: tez12'1eL them '1'0021. ' 'T'o. 3'1.)

F1'id:11'.'5 <21112'. 1.. '1'011 5112111 ~00 11itl'1011t 1:11". ' 111 21-121 1.1:.
111' 111152-11": '1' 1121511211010. 1;. looked c1321 1._' 111?.
at that 11"01212 21.11.21, running to one 01' th'L' 2.122-
11'l1ieh he 11.51221 12.1 11'0211', he takes i: 1111122152111. 2111215521.-
it 1110. "'.\'1221':111.1151'12lo 11" h "1i< I" <' .1121 I to 111121.
' You (21122.1 1' ill 11'1'121111'.' 5211's '11 What' 1. inst {13111011.
101"." 5:1121' '1 211222111. 110 Ltu'111.< 1111'1 quickly, "1121-;
10115201211 '1' 1211.12'11 211121. . 12,11? '1'21'120 11111134112 211' . no 52.21221
1'1'12'1111'131211'.' 'i'his' 11'.) 51101221 50 2121111105 11, tl121t1 ' 52111'
tears 51211121 111 l 1i5 2112's. in :1 11'21' 'd I 50 11lai11l1 discs-
1'e red the 1121110'5 :111'eetion' 111 111111 to me, and 21 (1111'.
resolution in 11111-11t1121t1 told l1i'- 11 then and oiten 2111.113
that I 11011 121 '. 1121'e'1' send him 1111111110111 111L if he 1"'.L110.
Willing to 512.11'111tl1 me

Upon the 11110121, :15 I found 111' all his discourse, :1-
settled afftee ion to 1110, and th: 1t 1101111110 should part
him from 1110, so I found 2111 the foundation of his
desire to go to his 011n country 11 '15 laid 1n his ardent
affection to the people, 11nd 11151101105 of 1111' doing them
good; :1 thing, 11111011 :15 I had no notion of 1111' self, so
I had not the least thought, or intention, 01' desire of

undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination
to my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the
supposition gathered from the former discourse; viz.
that there were seventeen bearded men there; and
therefore, without any more delay, I went to work
with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell,
and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the
voyage. There were trees enough in the island to
have builta little fleet, not of periaguas and canoes
only, but even of good large vessels: but the main
thing I looked at was to get one so near the water,
that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid
the mistake I committed at first.

At last Friday pitched upon a tree ; for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell to this day, what wood to call
:ize tree we cut down, except that it was very like the'
free we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua
wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this
tree out to make it into a boat: but I showed him
how rather to cut it out with tools, which after I
showed him how to use, he did it very handily; and
in about a month's hard labour, we finished it, and
1: ade it very handsome, especially when with our axes,
which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed
the outside into the true shape of a boat. After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers, into
the water : but when she was in, she would have car-
:ied twenty men with ease.

_ . When she was in the water, and thougli she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her,
and paddle her alone. So I asked him, if he would,
and if we might venture over in her; ' Yes,' he said,
' .ne venture over in her very well, though great blow
wind.' However, I had a farther design that he knew
nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail,
and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast,
that was easy enough to get ; so I pitched upon a
straight young cedar-tree, which I found near the
place, and which there was a great plenty of in the is-
land; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it : but as
to the sale that was my particular care. I knew I bad
old sails or rather pieces, of old sails enough, but as I
had had them now twenty-six years by me, and not
been very careful to perserve them, not imagining
that I should ever have this kind of use for them, I
did not doubt but they were all rotten; and indeed
most of them were so. However, I found two pieces
which appeared pretty good, and with these I went to
work; and with a great deal of pains, and awkward
tedious stitching (you may be sure), for want of needles,
I at length made a three-corned ugly thing, like what
we call in England, a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go
with a boom at the bottom, and a little sprit at the top.
such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with, and
such as I best knew how to manage because it was such
a one as I used in the boat in which Imade my escape
from Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.

Iwas near two months performing this last work;
viz. rigging and fitting my masts and sails ; for I fin-
ished them very complete, making a small stay, and a
sail, or fore-sale to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and which was more than all, I fixed a
rudder to the stern of her, to steer with: and though
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the
usefulness and even necessity of such a thing, I applied
myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I
brought it to pass ; though, considering the many (lull
contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat: for though he knew very well how to paddle the
canoe: he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a
rudder, and was the more amazed when he saw me
work the boat to-and-again in the sea, by the rudder,
and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that
way, as the course we sailed changed; I say when he
saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed.
However, with a little use, I made all these things
familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, ex-
cept that as to the compass, I could make him under-
stand very little of that: on the other hand, as there
was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for
a compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by
night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy sea-
sons; and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by
land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me ought rather to
be left out of the account, my habitation being quite
of another kind, than in all the rest of the time. I
kept the anniversary of my landing here, with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first ;.
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I
had much more so now, having such additional testi-
monies of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily de-
livered: or Ihad an invincible impression upon mv
thoughts, that my deliverance was at hand, and that I
' should not be another year in this place. However;
I went on with my husbandry, digging, planting,
fencing, as usual: I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing as befom.

B
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
hauling her 11p to the shore at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
to hold her and just deep enough to give her 11ater
enough to float 1n; and that 11l1en thee tide was out,
we made a stiong dam across the end of 1t, to keep the
water out; and so she lay dry, as to the tide from the
sea; and to keep the rain otf,11'e laid a great many
boughs of trees so thick, that she 11 as as well thatched
as a house , and thus 11e waited for the months of
Sovember and December, in which I designed to
make my adventure.

When the sett led season began to come in, as the
thought of 1111 design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the 101' age , and the first
thing I did was to lay by a cert 11111 q11antit1 of pro-
visions, beingr the stores for our 1'01' age , and intended
.in a 11eek ox iortnight' s time to open the dock, and
launch out our boat I11'as busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bade him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find
a. turtle 01' tortoise, a thing which 110 generallyg 0'0t
om'ea 11 eek, for the sake of z:thc eggs, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew 01' er 111v outward wall, or fence.
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set
his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he
cried out to me, ' 0 master! 0 master! 0 sorr'o11!
0 bad!' 'What' 3 the matter, Frida1?' said I. 'O
vonde1 there,' sav'she, one, t11o, three canoe! one,
two, three!' By this way of speaking, I concluded
there were six; but, on inquirv, I found there were
but three. ' Well, Friday,' said I, ' do not be frigh-
tened :' so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly
scared; for nothing ran in his head but that they were
come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces
and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that I
scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him
as well as I could, and told him I was in as much dan-
ger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him.
' But,' said I, ' Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?' ' Me shoot,' says he; 'but
there come many great number.' ' N o matter for that,'
said I again, ' our guns will fright them that we do not
kill.' So I asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend
him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and do
just as I bade him. He said, 'Me die, when you bid
dic, master.' So I went and fetched a good dram of
rum, and gave him ; forI had made so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he
had drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces,
which we always carried, and loaded them with swan-
shot, as big as small pistol-bullets: then I took four
muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with
a brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as
usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective glass, and went up,to the side of the hill, to
see what I could discover; and I found quickly, by my
glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet over
these three human bodies (a barbarous feast indeed!) :
but nothing more than as I had observed was usual
with them.

I observed also, that they were landed, not where
n 2
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to 1111' creek, when the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these creatures came about, so filled me with indigna-
tion, that I came down again to Friday and told him
I was resol1' ed to go 1101111 to them, and kill them all;
and asked it he would stand by me. He had now
gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little
raised with the dram I had gi1' en him, he was very
cheerful. 21111 told me, as before, ' he 11 ould die, 1111

I bid die.'

In this fit 011111131 took first and 1111i11e1l the arms
which I had charged as before, between us: I ga1e
Frida1 one pistol to stick 111 his girdle, and tlnee guns
upon his shoul. le' ; and I took one pistol and the other
three 1111 self, and 111 this postuie 11emarchc1l out. I
took a small bottle of rum in m1' pocket, and (rave
FridaV a large bag with more powder and bullets; and
as to 01111315, I charged him to keep close behind me,
and not to stii, or shoot, or do an1' thing till I bade
him, 1nd 1n the mean time, not to speak:J a word. In
this posture I fetched a compass to m1 right h: 11111 of
near a 11 file, as w.e l to get 01' er the creek as Cto get into
the 110011; so that I might come 11 ithin shot of them,
before I should be discovered, 11h1el1 I had seen 131' my
glass it was casv to do.

I now entered the 110011, and with all possible 11'ari-
ness and s: 1e11ce ( 1'11dav following close at my heels),I
marched till I came to the skirt of it, on the side which
was next to them , only that one corner of the wood
lay between me and them. Here I called softly
Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just
at the c0r11e1 of the 11' 00d, I zbade him go to the tree,
and bring me 11 0rd if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately
back and said, they might be plainly viewed there ; that
they were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners ; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little from them, whom, he said, they would
kill next, and which fried the very soul within me.
He told me it was not one of their nation, but one of
the bearded men whom he had told me of, that came
to their country inthe boat. I was filled with horror
at the very naming the white, bearded man; and,
going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands
and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes; and
that he was a European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which by going a little way, about, I saw
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should
be within half-shot of them. So I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree;
and, going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes which held all the way till I came to the other
tree, and then I came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close
huddled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him perhaps,
limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stoo ed
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to ri-
day : ' Now, Friday,' said I, 'do as I bid thee.' Fri-
day said he would. ' Then, Friday,' said I, ' do ex-
actly as you see me do; fail in nothing. So I set
down one of the my muskets, and the fowling piece,
upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his; and
Wlth the other musket I took my aim at the savage:

R3
bidding him to do the like: then asking him if he was
ready, he said, 'Yes.' ' Then fire at them,' said I;
and the same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and, on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not
hurt, jumped upon their feet immediately, but did
not know which way to run, or which way to look;
for they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that as I had bid
him, he might observe what I did: so soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the iece, and took
up the fowling-piece, and Friday di the like: he
sees me cock and present; he did the same again.
' Are you ready, Friday 2' said I. ' Yes,' said he.
' Let fly, then,' said I, 'in the name of God ;' and
with that I fired again among the amazed wretches,
and so did Friday ; and as our pieces were now loaded
with what I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we
found only two drop : but so many were wounded that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad crea-
tures, all bloody and miserably wounded, most of them;
ghegeof three more fell quickly after, though not quite

ea .

' Now, Friday,' said I, laying down the discharged
pieces and taking up the musket, which was yet loaded,
' follow me,' said I; which he did, with a great deal of
courage: upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so to; and running as fast
as I could, which, by the way, was not very fast, being
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the

poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach
0r shore, between the place where they sat and the
sea. The two butchers who were just going to work
with him, had left him, at the surprise of our first
fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest
had made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade
him step forwards, and fire at them: he understood
me immediately, and, running about forty yards to be
near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had
killed them all; for I saw them all fall in a heap in
the boat; though I saw two of them up again quickly;
however, he killed two of them, and wounded the
third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat,
as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the flags that bound the poor vic-
tim ; and, loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up,
and asked him, in the Portuguese tongue what he was.
He answered, in Latin, ' Christianus :' but was so
weak and faint, that he could scarcely stand, or speak.
I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did ; and
I gave him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I
asked him what countryman he was; and he said,
' Espagnole :' and being a little recovered, let me
know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how
much he was in my debt for his deliverance. ' Seig-
nor,' said I, with as much Spanish as I could make
up, 'we will talk afterward, but we must fight now;
if you have any strength left, take this pistol and
sword, and lay about you.' He took them very thank-
fully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
but, as if they had put new vigour into him, he flew
upon his murderers, like a fury, and had cut two of
them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the
whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures188 aoamsozs causes.

were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces.
that they fell down for mere amazement and feai, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape, than
thei1 flesh had to resist our shot; and that was the
case of those five that Fridav shot in the boat; for
as three of them fell with the hurt the;' received, so
the other two fell with the fright.

I kept m1' piece in my hand still, without thing,
being willing to keep my charge read}, because I had
given the Spania1d n11 pistolo and s11ordzso I called
to Frida1, and bade him run up to the tice from
whence 11'e1i1st fned, and fetch the arms which lay
there, that had been discharged, which he did with
great swiftness: and then giving him m1 musket, I
sat down m_1 self to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I 11as
loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engage-
ment between the Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him 11ith one of their great 11ooden
swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him
before, ifI had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who
was as bold and as brave as could be imagined, though
11 eak had fought this Indian a good while, and had
cut him two :'great wounds on his head, but the
savage, being a stout lusty fellow, closing in with
himf' had thrown him down (being faint), and was
wringing my sword out of his hand, when the Sp a-
niard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword,
drew the pistol f1om his girdle, shot the savage
through his body, and killed him upon the spot, be-
fore I, who 11 as running to help, could come near him.
------Frida1', being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flving wretcheso with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet, and with that he dispatched those three who,
as I said before, 11 ere wounded at first and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowl-
ing-pieces with which he pursued two of the savages,
and wounded them both; but as he was not able to
run, they both got from him into the wood, where
Friday pursued them, and killed one of them ; but the
other was too nimble for him; and though he was
wounded, yet had plunged into the sea, and swam,
with all his might, off to those who were left in the
canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded, we
know not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands, of one-and-twenty. The account of the
rest is as follows :--

3 Killed at our first shot from the tree.

:2 Killed at the next shot.

:2 Killed by Friday in the boat.

2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.

1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.

3 Killed by the Spaniard.

4 Killed, being found dropped here and there of
their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase
of them.

4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one was wounded, if

not dead.

3----

21 In all.

Those that were in the canoe, worked hard 'to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three
shot at them, I did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of their ca-
noes, and pursue them, and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest carrying the news home to
their people, they should come back, perhaps with two
or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by
mere multitude: so I cemented to pursue them by
sea; and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in,
and bade Friday follow us ; but, when I was in the
canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature
lie there alive. bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowingr what the matter was,for he had not been able
to look up over the side of the boat; he was tied so
hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long that
he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, orrushes, which
they had hound him with,and would have helped him
1p ; but he could not stand or speak,hut groaned most
piteously, believing, it seems. still that he was only
unbound in order to be killed.

 

'When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
nd tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my
ottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram, which,
with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and
he sat up in the boat; but when Friday came to hear
him speak, and looked in his face, it would have moved
anv one to tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, .hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrung
his hands. beat his own face and head, and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It
was a good while before I could make him speak to
me, or' tell me what was the matter ; but when he
came a little to himself, he told me that it was his fa-
ther.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me,
to see what ecstacy and filial aii'ection had worked in
this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his
being delivered from death ; nor indeed can I describe
half the extravagances of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat agreat many
times. When he went in to him, he would sit down
by him. open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosmn, half an hour together, to nourish it;
then he took his arms and ancles, which were numbed
and stitf with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands : and I, perceiving what the case was,
gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
which did them a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost out
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for
it blew so hard within two hours after, and before they
could be gotten a quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north
west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached their
own coast.

But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his
father, 11 at I could not find in my heart to take him
oif,1or s01. e time: but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to 111e, and he came jumping
and laughing. and pleased to the highest extreme.

Then I asked him, if he had giv on his father any
bre 1.111 Ii; shook his head. and said,' NonL : uglv
dog cat 1111 up self.' So In- gave him a cake of bread
on: oi 1 little pouch I cairied on purpose , I also gave
him a drum for himself, but he 11011111 not taste it; but
carried it to his fathe1.I had 111 my pocket also t11o
or thiee bunches of mv raisins, so Io g'a1e him a hand-
1111 oi themI for his athcr. IIe hale no sooner given
his 121: he: . hese raisins, but I saw him come out of the
bo..:.1.'11111'.111 war as if he had been be111tched He
ran at such 1. mm (for he 11as the swiftest fellow of
his 100: that ever I saw.) I sav, he ran at such a rate,
that he 11as out of sight, as it were in an instant,

and though I called and hallooed too after him, it was
all one: 1111111 he went, and 111 a quarter of an hour.
I sa him come backa again, though not so fast as he
went; '-1.1as he came nearer, I found his pace was
slacker, oscause he had something in his hand.

V her. he came up to 111e, I found he had been quite
home foz an earthern jug, or pot, to bring his father
so .1112 fiesh water, - and that he had got two more cakes
or loaves oi bread. The biead he gave me, but the

'ater he caiiied to his father: how ever, as I 11 as very
thirstv too, I took a li tle sip of it. This watei revived
his father more than all theI mm or spirits 1 had given
him 1 fm he 11 as just fainting 111th thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know
if there was any water left: he said, "Yes;" andI
bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much 11 1.111: of it as his father, ~ and I sent one of the

cakes that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who
was indeed verv weak, and 11 as reposmg himself upon
a green place, under the shade of a tree, and whose
limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with
the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that upon Friday's coming up to him with the water,
he sat up, and drank, and took the bread, and began to
eat, I went to him, and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude
and thankfulness that could appear in any countenance ;
but so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself
in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his feet:
he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not
able, his ancles were so swelled, and so painful to him;
so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ancles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turned his head about, to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not to be seen, at which he
started up, and without speaking a word, flew with that
swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet
to touch the ground as he went: but when he came he
only found that he had laid himself down to ease his
limbs. So Friday came back to me presently; and I
then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he
should carry him to ,our dwelling, where I would take
care of him; but Friday, a lusty young fellow, took
the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him
away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the
side or gunwale of the canoe, with his feet in the inside
of it, and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to
his father, and presently stepping out again, launched
the boat ofl", and paddled it along the shore faster than
I could walk, though the wirzl blew pretty hard too;

S
so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other
canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked
him whither he went. He told me, " Go fetch more
boat." So away he went, like the wind; for sure
never man or horse ran like him: and he had the
other canoe in the creek, almost as soon as I got to it
by land: so he wafted me over, and then went to help
our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but
they were neither of them able to walk; so that poor
Friday knew not what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thoughts, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up both together upon it between us. But when We
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we
were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible
to get them over; and I was resolved not to break it
down. So I et to work again; and Friday and I, in
about two hours' time, made a very handsome tent,
covered with old sails, and above that with boughs of
trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted: and here we made them two beds of
such things as I had; viz. of good rice-straw, with
blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them on each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere pro-

erty, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion.
econdly, my people were perfectly subjected: I was
the absolute lord and lawgiver: they all owed their
lives to me, and v1 ere ready to lay down their lives, if
there had been occasion of it, for me. It was remark-
able too, I had but three subjects, and they were of
three different religions: my man Friday was a pro-
testant; his father was a pagan and a cannibal: and
the Spaniard was a papist. I owever, I allowed liberty
of conscience throughout my dominions. But this is
by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some provision
for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday
to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out
of my particular flock, to be killed. Then I cut off the
hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth,
having put some barley and rice also into the broth;
and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new
tent: and having set a table there for them, I sat down
and eat my dinner also with them: and, as well as I
could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being
my interpreter, especially to his father, and indeed to
the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language
of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our
muskets and other fire-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle: and the next day
I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the
savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently
be offensive; and I also ordered him to bury the horrid
remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think of doing
myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went
that way. All which he punctually performed, and

s2
defaced the v ery appearance of the savages being there ;
so that VV hen I VV ent again, I could scarcely know where
it was, otherVV ise than by the corner of the VV ood pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conV e1satio_n VVith
my tVVo neVV subjects, and I first set Fiiday to inquire
of his father VV hat he thought of the escape of the
5m ages in that canoe, and VVhethcr VVe might expect a
return of them with a p0VV er too great fora us to resist.
His first opinion "as, that the saVages in the boat
never could liVe out the storm VVhich bleVV- that night
they went ofi", but must of necessity be drowfned or
driVen south to those other shmes, VVhe1e they wele
as sure to be deVoured as they weie to be dimmed if
they were cast an av but as to what they VV ould do, if
they came safe on shore, he said he kneVV not: but it
was his opinion that they VV me so dieadfully fiighted
VV 1th the manner of their being attacked, the noise and
the the, that he believed they VVould tell their people
thev VV e1e all killed by thunder and lightning, and not
bv the hand of man. 3and that the tVVo VV Inch appeared
(Viz. FridaV and I) VV ere tVVo heaV enly spirits or furies
come do" n to destroy them, and not men VV ith VV eapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry
out so in their language one to another; for it was
impossible to them to conceiVe that a man could dart
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, VV 1thout
lifting up the hand, as VV as done now. And this old
savage "as in the right; for, as I understood since by
other bands, the savages of that part neV er attempted
to go 0V er to the island afterwaid. They VV ere so
terrified VVith the accounts given by those four men
(for it seems they did escape the sea), that they believed,
whosoeV er neat to that enchanted island, VV ould be
destroy ed VVith fire from the gods.

This, hon ever, I knew not, and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept
always upon my guard, I and all my army; for as we
were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a
hundred of them fairly, in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con-
sideration, being likewise assured by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I
understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who having been cast away, and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace
indeed with the savages, but were very sore put to it
for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him all
the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from ti :3 Rio de la Plata, to the
Havannah, being directed to leave their loading there,
which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods they could meet with there;
that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck: that five of their own
men were drowned when first their ship was lost; and
that these escaped through infinite danger and hazards,
and arrived almost starved on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devom'ed every
moment.

He told me, they had some arms with them, bnt
they were perfectly useless, for that they had neitha'
powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled
all their powder, but a little which they used at their
first landing to provide themgelves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them
there; and if they had formed no design of making any

83198 110131113011 causon.

ietscape. He said, they had had many consultations about

but that having neither vessel, 1101 tools to build
otne, n01 pro11s1ons of any kind, their counsels always
ended in tears and despair.

I asked him 110w he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape ,
and 11'.hether if they were all here it might not be
done. I told him, with freedom, I feared mostly then
treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my lite into
their hands- , for that gratitude was no inherent virtue
in the 11.111110 of man , nor did men al11a1's square their
dealings b1 the obligations they had rcceived so much
as thc1' did l11 the ad1a11t'1rrcs they expected. I told
him it would be very hard, that I should be the in-
strument of their deliverance, and that they should
after" r11d~ make me their prisoner in New Spain,
where an Englishman was certain to be made a sacri-
fice, what necessity or 11l1at accident soev er, brought
him thithc1: and that I had rather be delivered up to
the SM ages. and be devoured alive, than fall into the
merciless pa11s of the priests, and be carried into the
Inquisition. I added, that otl1er11ise I 11 as persuaded.
if the1'11e1e all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils soutl111 ard, or to the islands, or Spanish
coast n0rth11ard: but that if, in requital, they should,
11hen I had put weapons into their hands, carry me, by
force, among their o11n people, I might be ill-used for
my kindness to them, and make my case 11 orse than it
was before.

He ans11ered with a great deal of candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was so miserable, and they
were so sensible of it, that they 110uld abhor the
thought of using any man unkindly, that should con-
tribute to their deliverance: and that if I pleased he
would go 11ith them to the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their
answer: that he would make conditions with them,
upon their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely
imder my leading, as their commander and captain;
and they should swear upon the holy Sacraments and
the Gospel, to be true to me, and to go to such Chris-
tian country as I should agree to, and no other; and
to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till
they were landed safely in such country as I intended;
and that he would bring a contract from them, under
their hands, for that purpose.

Then he told me, he would first swear to me himself,
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived,
till I gave him orders ; and that he would take my side
to the last drop of blood, if there should happen the
least breach of faith among his countrymen.

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress ima-
ginable, having neither weapons nor clothes, nor any
food, but at the mercy and discretion of the savages,
out of all hopes of ever returning to their own coun-
try; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their
relief, they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
the Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he
had gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard
himself started an objection, which had so much pru-
dence in it on the one hand, and so much sincerity on
the other hand, that I could not but be very well satis-
fied in it; and, by his advice, put ofi' the deliverance of
hfis comrades for at least half a year. The case was
t us :--

He had been with us now about a month, during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support , and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had raised up, which, as it was more than suffi-
cient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least 111th-
out good husbandry, for mv family, 11011' it was in-
creased to number four: but much less would it be
sufficient to vietual our 1essel, if we should build one,
fora 1'01'age toa 1.11' of the Christian colonies of Ame-
rica. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable to let him, and the two others, dig and culti-
vate some, more land, as much as I could spare seed to
sow; and that we should wait. .nothcr harvest, that
we might ha1c a supplv of corn for 111s countrvmen,
when tl1e_1' should come; ior want micrht be a temp-
tation 1;) ti 1cm to disagree, or not to think themselves
delivered, otherwise than out 01 one difficulty into
another. "' You know," said he, " the children of Is-
raei thouga thev rejoiced at thst'1 at their being deli-
vered out of 1'1111'111t _1-'et rebelled even nagaiust God him-
self, that 1.0111 ercd them, when tl1e1'can1e to 11' ant
bread 111 ti -1e wilderness."

His (1 union 11' as so seasonabl e, and his ad1icc so good,
that I could not but be 1'L1'_1' 11' oil pleased with 1. is 11ro-
posal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelitv.

So we fell to dig-ging- all four of 11s, as nelle is the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted, and
in about a nonth s time, '1' the end of which it was
sced-- time. 11. 0 had gotten as much .1:.'.1d cured and
trimme: 1 up. as we sowed twent1-two bus nels of barlcv
on, and sixte en jars of rice, 11 inch ws,a in short, all the
seed we had to spare, nor indeed did we leave our-
selves harl ey sufficient for our 01111 food, for the six
months that we had to expect our crop, thati. ,to sav,
reckoning 10111 t 1e time 11c set our seed 11side for sow-
ing ,1011 it is not to be supposed it is six months 1n the
ground 111.1 that countrv .

Havme 110111 society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their numbers had been very eat,
we went freely all over the island, wherever we ound
occasion; and as here we had our esca e or deliver-
ance upon our thoughts, it was impossib e, at least for
me, to have the means of it out of mine. To this pur-
pose I marked out several trees, which I thought fit
for our purpose, and I set Friday and his father to cut-
ting them down: and then I caused the Spaniard, to
whom I imparted my thoughts on that affair, to over-
see and direct their work. I showed them with what
indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near
two feet broad, thirty<< five feet long, and from two
inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labour
it took up, anyone may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day; for we took
our turns: and, by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever
we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them
to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious
quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had
we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are
cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty barrels;
and these, with our bread, were a great part of our
food, and very good living too, I assure you; for it is
an exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end;

for from our twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought
in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels of barley, and the like in proportion of the
rice, which was store enough for our food to the next
harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been
on shore with me; or if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our
ship, to have carried us to any part of the world, that
is to say, of America. When we had thus housed and
secured our magazine ofcorn, we fell to work to make
more wicker- vork ; viz., great baskets in which we
kept it ; and the Spaniard was very handy and dex-
teroas at this part, and often blamed me, that I did
not make some things for defence, of this kind of
work ; but I saw no need of it.

And, now, having a full supply of food for all the
guests i expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind him there. I gave him a Strict
charge in writing not to bring any man with him,
who would not first swear in the presence of himself,
and the old savage, that he would no way injure, fight
with, or attack the person he should find in the island,
who was s kind as to send for them, in order to their
deliverance ; but that they would stand by and de-
fend him against all such attempts: and wherever
they went, would be entirely under, and subjected to,
his command; and that this should be put in writing,
and signed with their hands. How we were to have
this done, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink,
that indeed was a question which we never asked.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the
old savage (the father of Friday), went away in one
of the canoes, which they might be said to come in,
or rather were brought in, when they came as
prisoners to be devoured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it,ROBINSON cnvsorc. 203

and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use
either of them but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
seven years and some days. I grave them provrsrons
of bread, and of dried grapes, su crent for themselves
for many days, and sufficient for all their countrymen
for about eight days' time ; and wishing them a good
voyage, I let them go, agreeing Wltll them about a_ 81g-
nal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should 'know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore.

They went away, with a fair gale, on the day that
the moon was at the full; by my account, in the month
of October: but as to the exact reckoning of days,
after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again;
nor had I ever kept the number of years so punctually
as to be sure that I was right, though, as it proved,
when I afterwards examined my account, I found I had
kept a true reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in his-
tory. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when
my man Friday came running in to me, and called
aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they are come."

I jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went out,
as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which (by the way) was by this time grown to
be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I
went without my arms, which it was not my custom to
do; but I was surprised, when, turning my eyes to the
sea, I presently saw a boat, at about a league and a
half '5 distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoul-
der-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blow-
ing pretty fair to bring them in. Also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side which
the shore lay 011, but from the southermost end of the
island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and bade him
lie close, for these were not the people we looked for,
and that we did not know yet whether they were
friends or enemies.

In the next place, I 11 ent in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them, and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill, as I used to do when I was app1ehensi1e of anv-
thing, and to take my view the plaincr, without being
discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainl1 discovered a ship, lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a half's distance from me, S. S. E., but
not abo1e a league and a half from the shore. B3 my
obser1ation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, through the
joy of seeing a ship, and one which, Ihad reason to
believe, 11 as bmanned by my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as Icannot describe;
but 1et I had some secret doubts hung about me, I
cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep
upon n11 guard. In the first place, it occurred to me
to consider what business an English ship could have
in that part of the world, since it was not the way to
or from any part of the world where the English had
any tratiic; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress, and that if they
were English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design, and I had better con-
tinue as I 11 as, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him, when he may
think there is no possibility of its being real. That
such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that
have made any observations on things, can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and
a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, or inferior and insubordinate,
is not the question), and that they are given for our
good?

The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, come it from
whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and
in a far worse condition than before, as you will see
presently.

I had not kept myself long in this posture, when I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for
a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing:
. however, as they did not come uite far enough, they

did not see the little inlet wherqu formerly landed my
rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for
me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I
may say, at my door, and soon would have beaten me
out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of
all I had. '

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were Englishmen, at least, most of them: one or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There
were in all eleven men, whereof three I found were
unarmed, and (as I thought) bound: and when the
first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they
took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of
the three I could perceive usmg the most passionate

'1'
gestures of entrcaty, affliction, and despair, even to a
kind of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive,
lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared con-
cerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called
out to me, in English, as well as he could, " 0 master,
you see English mans eat prisoners as well as savage
mans." " Why," said I, "' Friday, do you think they
are going to eat them then?" "Yes," says Friday,
"they will eat them." " No, no," said I, " Friday: I
am afraid they will murder them indeed; but you may
be sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment, when the three pri-
soners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift. up his arm, with a great cutlass (as the
seamen call it) or sword, to strike one of the poor
men; and I expected to see him fall every moment, at
which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in
my veins.

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the
savage that was gone with him ; or that I had any way
to have come undiscovered within shot of them, that I
might have rescued the three men; for I saw no fire-
arms they had among them: but it fell out to my
mind another way.

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men, by the insolent seamen, I observed the
fellows ran scattering about the land, as if they wanted
to see the country. I observed also, that the three
other men had liberty to go where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the ground very pensive,
and looked like men in despair.

This put me in mind of the first time when I cameacnrxson censor. 207

on shore, and began to look about me: how I gave
myself over for lost, how wildly I looked round me,
what dreadful apprehensions I had, and how I lodged
in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by
wild beasts.

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was
to receive, by the providential driving of the ship
nearer the land, by the storms and tide, by which I
have since been so long nourished and supported; so
these three poor, desolate men, knew nothing how
certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near
it was to them, and how effectually and really they
were in a condition of safety, at the same time as they
thought themselves lost, and their case desperate.

So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the
great Maker of the world, that he does not leave his
creatures so absolutely destitute,but that in the worst
circumstances they have always something to be
thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliver-
ance than they imagine ; nay, are even brought to
their deliverance by the means which they seem to
be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore, and while partly they stood
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to see what kind of place
they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably
away, leaving their boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterward, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell
asleep. However, one of them waking sooner than
the other, and finding the boat too fast aground for
him to stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were strag-
gling about, upon which they all soon came to the

TS\

.2118 ROBINSON emu-so 11.

boat: but it was past. all their stzeugt' 1 to launch her,
the heat l1:\i11<<3'1"e11'l1c:1v1. and the shore on that side
be ing a so1't.oo7.1-' sand, almost like a quic 'sand.

Iii this (ondition. like true seamen. 11'l10 a1'1'.pcr-
haps, the beast of all mankind giv en to fowthougl 1t,
thev :2a19' it 0101, and away they st1olle1l about the
countu again; and I heard one s. 'aloud to another
(callinn th cm 011 irom the boat), "II 111'. let 1191' alone.
Jack. ('1' 11 . _1'11'.' She'll float next tide" 111' 1' Inch I
was fully continued in the main inquiry, of what
countrymen they were.

111 this whil1, I kept m1s'elf close, not once daiing
tostii out 01 m1' castle, any farther than to 1111' pla ace
of ohscr1':.. -ion. 1ear the top of the hill; and ray gla l
I was to think how' well it was fortified. Ikiicw' it
was no less than ten hours before the boat could be
afloat again-111d bv that time it would be dark, and I
might hen ' mm at libertv to see their motions, and to
hear their 1 iseourse, if thev had an1'.

In the meantime. I titted 1111seli 11') for a battle. as
before. though with more caution, ki1ow'ing I had to
do with another kind of e11e1n_1 than I had at first I
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms I
took my self two fow 11111 -pieccs, and I gave him three
niuskets.I\I1'tig11re indeed we 5 var fierce: I had
1111' formidable goat- skin coat on, with the great cap I

mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in
my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was 1111' design, as I said above, not to have made
anv attempt till it was dark; but about two 0 'k,cloc
being the heat of the da1, I found, that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, were all laid down to sleep. The three poor
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get

any sleep, were, how ever, set down under the shelter
of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me,
and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.

Upon this, I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition. Immediately
I marched, in the figure above; my man Friday at a
good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms
as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did.

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called allowed to

 

They started up at the sound, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth

'r'3
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but
I thought I perceived them just going to fly f1on1 me,
11hen I spoke to them 1n English; " Gentlemen," said
I," do not be surprised at me: pe1haps you may ha1e
a friend near 1011, when you do not expect it." " He
must be sent directly from Heaven then," said one of
them 1'er1 gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at
the same time , "for our condition 13 "past the help of
ma11.'"All help 13 from Heaven, si1,' 'said I." But
can you put a stranger in the way how to help you;
for you seem to me to be in some gieat distress? I
5:111 1'011 when you landed; and when 1011 seemed to
make application to the brutes that came with you,
I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill 1'o.u

The poor man, 111th tears running do1111 his face,

and tieinbling, looking like one astonished, returned,

'Am I talking to God, or man '.~' Is it a real man, or
an angel?' 'Be 1n no fear about that, si1,' said I. 'If
God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have
come better clothed, t'and armed after another manner,
than you see me. Pray la1' aside your fears; Iam a
man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you, 1011
see. I ha1e one servant 01111: 11'e ha1e arms and
ammunition. Tell 11s freely: can we serve vou?
\Vhat is your case?'

'Our case, sir,' said he,' is too long to tell you,
11hile our murderers are so near, but, in short, 811', I
was commander of that ship; my men ha1 1110' muti-
nied against me, thev have been hardly prevailed on
not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore
in this desolate place, with these t11o men with me,
one m1 mate, the other a passenger, where we expect-
ed to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of 1t. '

'Where are those brutes, your enemies?' said I.
'Do you know 11here they are gone 22' 'There they
are, sir,' said he pointing to a thicket of trees. 'My
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard
you speak; if they have, they will certame murder
us all.'

'I-Iavc they any fire-arms 2' said I. He answered
they had only two pieces, and one which they left in
the boat. ' Well, then,' said I, 'leave the rest to me.
Isee they are all asleep. It is an easy thing to kill
them all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?'
He told me there were two desPerate villains among
them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to;
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would turn to their duty. I asked him which they
were. He told me he could not at that distance de-
scribe them; but he would obey my orders in any-
thing I would direct. 'Well,' said I, 'let us retreat
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake; and we _'
will resolve farther.' So they willingly went back .
with me, till the woods covered us from them.

'Look you. Sir,' said I, 'if I ventiu'e upon your de-
liverance. are you willing to make two conditions with
me?' He anticipated my proposals, by telling me,
that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be
wholly directed and commanded by me in everything;
and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and
die with me, in what part of the world soever I would
send him; and the two other men said the same.

'Well.' said I, 'my conditions are but two: first.
That while you stay on this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here ; and if I put arms into
your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up
"to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this
island: and, in the mean time, be governed by my
orders.'

' Secondly, that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage-free.'
He g. ve me all the assurances that the invention and
faith of a man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands ; and, besides, would
owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occas

sions as long as he lived.
'Well, then,' said I, 'heio are three muskets for

you, with powder and ball. Tell me next what you
think is proper to be done.' He showed all the testi-
mony of his gratitude that he was able; but offered
to be wholly guided by me. I told himI thought it
was hard venturing anything, but the best method I
could think of, was to fire upon them at once, as they
lay; and if any were not killed at the first volley, and
offered to submit, we might save them, and so put it
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship; and if they escaped, we should be undone
still; for they would go on board and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. " Well then," said
I, "necessity legitimates my advice; for it is the only
way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go
themselves, and manage as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse, we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet. I asked him if either of them were the men
who, he had said, were the heads of the mutiny. He
said, " No." " Well then," said I, " you may let
them escape, and Providence seems to have wakened
them on purpose to save themselves. Now," said I,
"if the rest escape you, it is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men, who were with him, going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was
awake, turned about, and, seeing them coming, cried
out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the mo-
ment he cried out, they fired, I mean the two men, the
captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so
well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one
of them was killed on the Spot, and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon
his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other: but
the captain, stepping to him, told him it was too late
to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive
his villany, and, with that word, knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more. There were three more in the company, and
one of them was also slightly wounded. By this time
I was come; and when they saw their danger, and
that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy.
The captain told them he would spare their lives, if
they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence
of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and
afterward in carrying her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave 'him all the protesta-
tions of their sincerity that could be desired, and he
was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against; only I obliged him to keep
them bound, hand and foot, when they were upon the

While this was doing, I sent Friday, with the cap-
tain's mate, to the boat, with orders to secure her, and
bring away the oars and sail, which they did; and,
by-the-by, three straggling men, that were (happily
for them) parted from the rest, came back, upon hear-
ing the guns fired; and seeing their captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they sub-
mitted to be bound also; and so our victory was
complete.

It now remained that the captain and. I should in-
quire into one another's circumstances. I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement, and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with pro-
visions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply;
but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on pur ose
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, am he
could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried
him, and his two men, into my apartment, leading
them in just where I came out, viz. at the t0p of the
house, where I refreshed them with such provisions as I
had, and showed them all the contrivances I had made,
during my long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them. was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how perfectly I had concealed my re-
treat with a grove of trees, which having been now
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick that it was impassable in any part
of it, but at that one side where I had reserved my
little windino passage into it. This I told him was
my castle anil my residence; but that I had a seat in
the country, as most princes have, whither I could
retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too
another time; but at present our business was to con-
sider, how to recover the ship. He agreed with me
as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a loss
what measures to take, for that there were still six-
and-twenty hands on board, who, having entered into
a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now I) y
desperation, and would carry it on, knowmg that if
they were reduced, they should be brought to the
, gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of
the English colonies; and that therefore there would
be no attacking them with so small a number as we
were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion; and that
therefore something was to be resolved on very speedily,
as well to draw the men on board into some snare for
their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us and
destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred to me,
that, in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what
was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boat, to see for
them; and that then, perhaps, they might come armed,
and be too strong for us : this, he allowed, was rational.

Upon this I told him the first thing we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her off ; and taking every
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever
else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy,
another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder,
and a great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvass: the
sugar was five or six pounds; all which was very
welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of
which I had had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
away before), we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come stron enough to master us, yet>>
they could not carry of the oat.
Indeed it 11 as not much in my thoughts, that we
could be capable to recovei the ship: but my view
was, tnat it they went away without the boat I did not
much question to make her fit again to carry us away
to the Lee11 ard Islands, and call upon our f1iend_s, the
Spaniaids, in my way; fo1 I had them still in my
thoughts.

While 11c 11 em thus piepaiing our designs, and had
first, b1' main strength, hea1 ed the boat upon the
beach, so hiv- 11 that the tide would not float l1e1 off at
high- wate1 11111111; and besides had broken a hole 1n
he1 bottom too big to be quicklv stopped, and new sat
down musing 11 hat we should do, we hemd the ship fire
a gun, and saw her make a 11 aft with her ensign, as 1.
signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat
stirred, and thev fired several times, makino' other
signals for the boat.

1:At last, 11l1en all the signals and firings proved
fruitless, and t11e1' found the boat did not stir. 11c saw
them (b1' the help of mv glasses) hoist another boat
out, and r011 to11a1ds the shore: and we found, as they
a p,proached that there 11 me no less than ten men in
her, and that they had fire- -arms 111th them.

As the ship 1211 almost two leagues fiom the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight of the men, e1 en of their faces ; because the tide
having set them a little to the east of the othe1 boat,
they rowed up under shme, to come to the same place
where the other had landed, and where the boat lav.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters of all
the men in the boat, of whom he said that there were
'0' rec very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led

into this conspiracy bv the rest, being 01' erpowercd and
htened.

ut that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chief officer among them, and all the rest, they were as
outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and were, no
doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too
powerful for us.

I smiled at him, and told him that men in our cir-
cumstances were past the operations of fear: that
seeing almost every condition that could be, was better
than that which we were supposed to be in, we ought
to expect that the consequence, whether death or life,
would be sure to be a deliverance, I asked him what
he thought ' of the circumstances of my life: and
whether a deliverance were not worth venturin for.
" And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my eing
preserved here on purpose to save your life, which
elevated you a little while ago'.2 For my part, there
seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of
it." " What's that?" said he. "Why," said I, "'tis
that, as you say, there are three or four honest fellows
among them, which should be spared; had they been
all of the wicked part of the crew, I should have
thought God's providence had singled them out, to
deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon it,
every man of them that comes ashore is our own, and
shall die or live, as he behaves to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we
set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the first
appearance of the boat's coming from the ship, con-
sidered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed
secured them effectually.

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered,
or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could

U
have delivered themselves. Here they left them bound,
but gave them provisions, and promised them, if they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a

promised faithfully to bear their confinement with
patience, and were very thankful that they had such
good usage, as to have provisions and a light left them;
for 1" riday gave them candles (such as we made our-
selves) 1'01' their comfort: and they did not know but
that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free
to trust them; but the other two were taken into my
service, upon their captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so,
with them and the three honest men, we were seven
men, well armed; and I_ made no doubt we should be
able to deal well enough with the ten that were a com-
ing, considering that the captain had said there were
three or four honest men among them also.

As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I
was glad to see; for I was afraid they would rather have
left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her; and so we should
not be able to seize the boat.

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all
to the other boat; and it was easy to see they were
under a great surprise, to find her stripped, as above,
of all that was in her, and a hole in her bottom.

- After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooeing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions
hear; but it was all to no purpose. Then they came
all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their sma'.
arms, which indeed we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring: but it was all one ; those in the cave
we were sure could not hear, and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that,
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on
board again to their ship, and let them know there,
that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat
staved: accordingly, they immediately launched their
boat again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board the
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up for
lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was
in hopes he should have recovered : but he was quickly
as much frighted the other way.

They had not long been put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again; but with
this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems,
they consulted together upon; viz., to leave three men
in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up
into the country, to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we
were at a loss to know what to do; for our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us,
if we let the boat escape, because they would then row
away to the ship ; and then the rest of them would be
sure to weigh, and set sail, and so our hope of recover-
ing the ship would be lost.

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The s ven
men came on shore, and the three who remained i the
boat, put her off to a goododistance from the shore,

U a
and came to an anchor to wait for them, so that it was
impossible for us to come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the little hill, under which
my habitation lay ; and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We could have
been very glad they would have come nearer to us,
so that we might have fired at them; or that they
would have gone farther ofl", that we might have come
abroad.

But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could see a great way into the valleys and
woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary; and not caring. it seems, to ven-
ture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree, to consider of it.
Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as
the other party of them had done, they had done the
job for us : but they were too full of apprehensions of
danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could not
tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs, viz., that perhapsthey would
all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make their fel-
lows hear, and that we should all sally upon them,
just at the juncture when their pieces were all disz
charged, and they would certainly yield, and we should
have them without bloodshed. I liked the proposal,
provided it were done while we were near enough to
come up to them, before they could load their pieces

again. -

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take: at length I
told him there would be nothing to be done in m;-
Opinion till night; and then, if they did not return to
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so might use some stratagem
with them in the boat, to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing, and were very uneasy; when after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march
down towards the sea. It seems they had such dread-
ful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place,
that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give
their companions over for lost, and so go on with their
intended voy 0e with the ship.

As soon as perceived them go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be as it really was, that they had given
over the search, and were for going back again; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was
readsr to sink at the apprehensions of it: but I pre-

sently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again;
and which answered my end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and
as soon as they came to a little rising grormd, at about
half a mile's distance, I bade them halloo as loud as

they could, and wait till the found the seamen heard
them; that as soon as they card the seamen answer
them, they should return it again, and then keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answering when the
other hallooed, to draw them as far into the island and
among the woods as possible; and then wheel about
again to me, by such ways as I directed.

They were just going mto the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallooed, and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where the water being up, they could not

U3get over, and called for the boat to come up, and set

them over, as indeed I expected.
When the] had set themselves over, I observed that

' the boat being gone up a good way 1nto the creek, and,
as it were, in a harbour within the land, they took one
of the three men out of her to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the
stump of a little tree on the shore.

This 11as what I wished for; and immediately leav-
ing Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I
took the 1est 111th me, and crossing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised the t11o men before they 11 ere
an are, one of them lying on sho1e, and the othe1 being
in the boat: the fellow on shore was between sleeping
and 11 aking, and going to start up, the captain, who
11 as foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down,
and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he
11 as a dead man.

There needed 1ery few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down: besides, this 11 as it
seems, one of the three who 11 ere not so hearty 1n the
mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily
pursuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join very
since1ely with us.

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed the business with the rest, that they
d1ew them, by hallooing and answering, from one bill
to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
we1 e, very sure they could not reach back before it was
dark: and indeed they were heartily thed themsel1 es
also by the time they got back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to ofall upon them, so as to make sure

work 11 it}: them
It was several hours after Friday came back to me,
before they came back to their boat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they came up,
calling to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not able to come any faster, which was
very welcome news to us.

At length they came up to the boat; but it is im-
possible to express their confusion when they found
the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out,
and their two men gone. We could hear them call to
one another, in the most lamentable manner, telling
one another they were gotten into an enchanted
island; that either there were inhabitants in it, and
they should all be murdered, or else there were devils
or spirits in it, and they should be all carried away and
devoured.

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times, but no answer.
After some time we could see them, by the little light
there was, running about wringing their hands, like
men in despair; and that sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come
ashore again, and walk about again, and do the same
thing over again.

My men would fain have had me give them leave to
fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willin
to take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and
kill as few of them as I could: and especially as I was
unwilling to hazard the killin any of our men, know-
ing the others were very wel armed. I resolved to
wait to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could.
that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as they possibly could before they offered to
fire.

T hcy had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mu-
tiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected
and dispiritcd of all the rest, came walking towards
them, with two more of their crew. The captain was
so eager, at having the principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sm'e of him; for he only heard
his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the
captain and Friday, starting upon their feet, let fly at
them.

The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot into the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third ran for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz.,
myself, generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general;
the captain, and his two men; and the three prisoners
of war, whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the man
they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to
call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a
parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms,
which fell out just as we desired: for indeed it was
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would
be very willing to capitulate. So he called out, as
loud as he could, to one of them, "Tom Smith ! Tom
Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's
that? Robinson?" for it seems he knew his voice.
The other answered, "Aye, aye; for God's sake,
Tom Smith, throw down yom' arms, and yield: or you
are dead men this moment!"
ROBINSON causes. 22:)

"Whom must we yield to ? Where are they?" says .
Smith again. "Here they are," says he. " Here is
our captain, and fifty men with him, haye been hunt-
ing you this two hours. The boatswam is killed, Will
Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do
not yield, you are all lost."

" Will they give us quarter then," says Tom Smith,
" and we will yield." " I'll go and ask, if you promise
to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain,
and the captain himself then calls out, " You, Smith,
you know my voice; if you lay down your arms im-
immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all
but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter! What have I done 2
They have all been as bad as I l" which, by the way,
was not true, neither; for it seems this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain, when
they first mutined, and used him barbarously, in ty-
ing his hands, and giving him injurious language.
However, the captain told him he must lay down his
arms at discretion, and trust to the Governor's mercy:
for they all called me Governor.

In a v.1 rd, they all laid down their arms, and beg-
ged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and
then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly
with those three, were all but eight, came up and
seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that I
kept myself, and one more out of sight, for reasons of ,
state. '

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the villany of their practices with him, and
at length, upon the farther wickedness of their design;
and how certainly it must bring them to misery and
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the
island; that they thought that they had set him on
shore in a barren, uninhabited island, but it had
pleased God so to direct them, that the island was in-
habited, and that the governor was an Englishman;
that he might hang them all there, if he pleased; but
as he had given them all quarter, he supposed he
would send them to England, to be dealt with there
as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was com-
manded by the governor to advise to prepare for death;
for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees to beg
the captain to intercede with the governor for his life;
and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that
they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing
to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting pos-
session of the ship. So I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a governor
they had, and called the captain to me. When I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was or-
dered to speak again, and say to the captain, " Cap-
tain, the cemmander calls for you ;" and presently the
captain replied, "Tell his excellency I am just a-com-
ing." This most perfectly surprised them; and they
all believed that the commander was just by, with his
fifty men.

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonder-
fully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning.

But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure of success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners, and that he should go and take Atkins and two
more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned
to the cave where the others lay. This was committed
to Friday, and the two men who came on shore with
the captain.

They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison;
and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in
their condition. '

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full description; and as it was
fenced in, and they pinioned, the lace was secure
enough, considering they were upon t eir behaviour.

To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to
try them, and tell me whether he thought he might be
trusted or no, to go on board, and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the
condition they were brought to; and that though the
governor had given them uarter for their lives, as to
the present action, yet if t ey were sent to England,
they would all be hung in chains to be sure; but that
if they would join so just an attempt, as to recover the
ship, he would have the governor's engagement for
their pardon.

An one may guess how readily such a proposal
woul be accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised
with the deepest im recations, that they would be .
faithful to him to the ast drop, and that they should
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over
the world; that they would own him for a father to
them as long as they lived. ~
" Well," says the captain, " I must go and tell the
governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
him to consent to it." So he brought me an account
of the temper he found them in; and that he verily
believed they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him
he should go back again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them that they should see that they did not
want men ; but we would take out those five to be his
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the cas-
tle (my cave), as hostages, for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execu-
tion, the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive
upon the shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them, that the
governor was in earnest. However, they had no way
left them but to accept it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade
the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion: First, the captain, his mate, and passenger. Se-
cond, then the two prisoners of the first game; to
whom, having their characters from the captain, had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms. Third,
the other two, whom I had kept till now in my bower,
pinioned ; but, upon the captain's motion, had now
released. Fourth, these five released at last: so that
there were twelve in all, beside five we kept prisoners
in the cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with these hands on board the ship; for, as for me and
my man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to
stir, having seven men left behind: and it was em-
ployment enough for us to keep them asunder, and

supply them with victuals.ROBINSON 030303. 229

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any
where, but by my direction; that if they did, they
should be fetched into the castle and laid in irons; so
that as we never suffered them to see me as governor,
I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the
governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon
all occasions.

The captain had now no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passenoer captain of one,
with four other men; and himsel , his mate, and five
more, went in the other. And they contrived their
business very well; for they came up to the ship about
midnight. As soon as they came within call of the
shi , he made Robinson hail them, and tell them he
had) brought off the men and the boat, and that it was
along time before they had found them, and the like;
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's.
side: when the captain and the mate, entering first
with their arms, immediately knocked down the se-
cond mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter-decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep
them down who were below, when the other boat, and
their men entering at the fore-chains, secured the fore-
:astle of the ship, and the skuttle, which went down

X
into the cook-room, making the three men they found
there p1isoner:.

When this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break
into the 101111d- house, where the new reel captain
1m. and. inning taken the alarm, was <<rotten up, and
with two men and 11 1101311011 gotten fi1e- 1'11n1s 111 their
hands; and when the 111ate,11ith a crow, split open
the door, the new aptain and his men tired holdlv
among them, 11111111ol1nded the mate with a musket-
ball, 111111-11 broke 111s arm, and 1101111111111 two more of
the men. but killed nob01l_1 .

The mate called for help, rushed, however, into
the lonnd-hou'se, wounded as he was. and, with his
pistol, shott the new captain in the 11 'ad , '1]: c bullet en-
tered at his mouth, and came out afr1 1i11 behind one of
his ears , so tnat he never spoke a word: upon which
the rest 1i1-lded. and the ship was taken etibctuallv,

vithout 11111 more liv cs 10st.

As soon as the ship was thus secured. the captain
ordered seven guns to be tired, which was the signal
agreed upon by me, to give me notice of his success,
which. 1011 111 av be sure, I we s verv glad to hear hav-
ing sat watching upon the shore efor it, till near two of
1111': clock 111 the5 morning.

Ha1i11g thus heard the signal plainlv, I laid me
down; and it having been a da1 of 0'11) 1t fatigue to
me, I slept 1'e1'1 sound, till I was something surprized
111th the noise of a gun , and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me va the name of Governor, go-
1'1'erno 1' and prese entlv I knew the ca ptain's voice,
when climbing 11p to the top of the hill, there he stood,
and pointing: to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.
' My dear friend and deliverer,' S1115 he, ' there s vour
ship-t , 1' she 13 all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her.' I cast 1113. 911: to the ship, and there
she lode 11ithin little more than half a mile of the
shore; fo1 tho1 had weighed her anchor as soon as tl my
11 e1c 1111151015 of her, and the 11 eather being fair, had
b1111wht her to an anchor just age inst the mouth of a
little c1 01111 and the tide being 111), the captam had
b1011ght the pinnacc in near the place whe1e 1 fast
lan1l1: 1] m1' 1afts, and so landed just at my door.

I 11 as, at fi1st ready to sink down 111th the surpiise, '
for I saw 1111 deliverance indeed 1isibly put into my
hands, all things easy, anda large ship just ready to
car11 me 1111'a1,11'hitlierI pleased to go. At first, for
some time. I 11 as not able to ans" er one 11 ord; but as
he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I
should have fallen to the ground

He 11011-ei1'e1l the surp1 no, and immediately pulls a
bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of cor-
dial, which he had brought on purpose for me. After
111.1 ank it, I sat down up on the ground, and though it
bought me to myself, yet it 11 as a good while before I
could speak a word to him.

All this 11 h1le, the poor man 1111s in as great an
cost: 01' asI, only not under any surprise, as I "as;
and he said a thousand kind, tender things to me, to
compose and bring me to myself; but such was the
flood of joy in my breast, that put all my spirits into
confusion: at last it broke out into tears, and a little
11h1le after I recovered my speech.

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my de-
liverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him, I looked
1111011 him as aman sent from heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of
11 onders that such things as these were the tes imo--
nies we had of a secret hand of P1017idenee governing
the world, ..nd an evidence that the eyes of an infinite
P011 er could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and sendhelp to the miserable wheneverhe pleased.

x2
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
HeaV en , and VV hat heart could forbear to bless Him,
who had not 0111}, in a miraculous manner, provided
for one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but f1 om VVhom every deliverance must
alVVaV s be acknouledged to proceed?

When VV 0 all talked a VV hile, the captain told me he
had biought me some little refreshment, such as the
ship aflo1ded and such as the VV retches, VV ho had been
so long his 1111ste1s, had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men
bring the things ashore, that new fo1 the gOVernor;
and indeed it VV as a present, as if I had been one, not
that VV as to be canied aVVaV along VV 1th them, but as if
I had been to dwell upon the island still, and they
were to 2'10 VVithout me.

First. he had bmught me a case of bottles full of
excellent co1dia1 VVaters, six laige bottles of Madeira
mine, the bottles held tVVo quarts a piece, tVVo pounds
of excellent tobacco, tVV elVe good pieces of the ship's
beef, and six pieces of po1k, VV 1th a bag of pease,
and about a hundied "eight of biscuit.

He b1 0110 at me also a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and tVVo bottles of lime Juice, and
abundance oi othe1 things. But, besides these, and,
VV hat "as a thousand times mme useful to me, he
b1 ought me six clean, new shirts, six V'e1_V-' good neck-
cloths, tVVo paii of gloves, one pair of shoes? a hat, and
one pail ot stockings, and a Veryg oood suit of clothes
of his 0VVn VVhieh had been VV orn but V'e1V little . in a
word, he clothed me from head to foot.

It "as 11 um kind and agreeable present, as any
one maV imagine, to one in mV circumstances , but
neV e1 VVas athhing 1n the VV orld of that kind so un-
pleasant, aVV kVV ard, and uneasv as it was to me to wear
such clothes at their fiist putting on.
After these ceremonies, past, and after all his good
things were b1ought into my little apartment, we be-
gan to consult what was to be done with the prisone1s
we had; fo1 it 11 as worth considering, whether we
might 1ent11re to take them away with us or no, espe-
cially two of them, whom we knew to be incon-igible
and ref1acto1y, to the last deg1ee and the captain said
he kne11 that they we1e such rogues, that there was no
obliging them, and if he did ca1ry them away, it must
be 1n irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to jus-
tice, at the first English colony he could come at; and
I found the ca )tain himself 11 as very anxious about it.

Up on this,]I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undepitake to b1 mo the two men he spoke of, to make
it thei1 own 1equest that he should leave them upon
the island. 'I should be very glad of that,' says the
captain, 'with all my heart.'

' Well,' said I,' I will send for them, and talk with
them fo1 you,' So I caused Fiiday and the two hos-
tages, fory they 11 ere now discharged, their comrades
having performed their promise , I!3 say, I caused them
to go to the cave, and bring up the five men pinioned
as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I
came.

After some time, I came thither, dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being
all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to
be brought before me, and I told them I had had a
full account of their villanous behaviour to the cap-
tain, and how they had run away with the ship, and
were preparing to commit further iobberies , but that
Providence had ensnared them 1n their own ways, and
that they had fallen into the pit which they had digged
for others.

I let them know that, by mv direction, the ship had
been seized, that she lay now in the mad; and thev

x3
might see by -and-by that their new captain had re-
ce11 ed the 1e11"a1d of his villany ; for that they might
see him 11a 1gi11g at the1 'ard-arm.

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I should not execute them as pn ates, taken
in the fact, as b1 my commision they could not doubt
I had autl101it1' to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they 11 ere
taken, the captain had promised them their lives, and
they hun1bl1 implored my mercy. But I told them I
knew not 1111'1t mercy to show them: for, as for my-
self, I had 1esol1' ed to quit the island with all my men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go for Eng-
land: and as i111 the captain he could not ca1ry them
to England other than as pr'isone1s in irons, to be
tried f01 mutin1 and running away with the ship, the
consequence of which theyo must needs know, 11ould
be the gallo11s:so that I could not tell 11 Inch was best
for them. unless they had a mind to take their fate in
the island ; if the1 desired that I did not mm, as I had
liberty to lea1e it. I had some inclination to give them
their li1' es it they could shift on shore. They seemed
very thankful for it; said they would much rather
ventu1e to sun there, than to be carried to England to
be h. nged: so I left it on that 1ssue.

However. the captain seemed to make some diffi-
culty of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon
this I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told
him that the1 11 em my prisone1s, not his; and that
if he did not think fit to consent to it, I 11 ould set them
at 1ibert1 as I found them, and if he did not like that,
he might take them again, if he could catch them.

Upon this the1 appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingl1 set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the 1100115, to the place whence they came, and l
would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well, if
they thought fit.

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship; but
told the captain that I would stay that ni ht to prepare
my things, and desired him to go on boar in the mean
time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore the next day for me; ordering him in the
mean time to cause the new captain who was killed, to
be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see
him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up
to me in my apartment, and entered seriously into dis-
course with them of their circumstances. I told them,
I thought they had made a right choice ; that if the
captain carried them away, they would certainly be
hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at
the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had no-
thing less to expect.

When they had all declared their Willingness to
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them into the way of mak-
ing it easy to them. Accordingly I gave them the
whole history of the place, and of my coming to it:
showed them my fortifications, the way I made my
bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a
word all that was necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story also of the sixteen Spaniards that
were to he expected; for whom I left a letter, and
made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves.

I left them my fire-arms; viz., five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had about a bar-
rel and a half of powder left; for after the first year or
two I usedbut little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and direc-
tions to milk and fatten them, to make both butter
and cheese.

In a VV'-,o1d I 3am them eV my part of my own story ,
and I told them I would p1cv ail with the captain to
leaVe them two bands of gunpouder more, and some
garden-seeds, VV Inch I told them I would have been
Ve1v glad of: also I gaVe them the bag of pease VV111cl1
the captain had b10ugl1t me to eat, and bade them be
sum to sow and 1nc1ease them

IIaVing done all this, I left them the next rim, and
went 011 boaul the ship. \Ve p1epared immediately to
sail, but did not VVeigh that night. The next mom-
ing c1111) , mo of the:3 five men came swimming to the
ship' 5 side and making a most lamentable complaint
of the othe1 th1ee, begged to be taken into the ship,
fo1 God's sake, f01 they should be mu1de1 ed, and
begged the captain to take them on board, though he
hanged them immediately.

Upon this, the captain pretended to 11m e no pOVV er
without me, but after some difficulty, and afte1 their
solemn p1o111ises of amendment, they new taken on

boa1d, and new some time afte1 soundly whipped and

pickled, after VV hieh they p10-V ed V e1y honest and quiet
fellows.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on sl1o1e,
the tide being up, with the things plomised to the
men, to VV h1cl1 the captain at my intercession, caused
thei1 chests and clothes to be added, which they took,
and VV c1e Vc1V thankful for. I also encouraged them,
by telling them, that if it lay 1n my pOVV er to send any
V essel to t>take them 1n, I VV ould not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
fo1 relics, the g1 eat goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots, also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lien
by me so long useless, that it was grown rusty, or tar-
nished and could hardl pass for silver, till it had
been a little rubbed and andled; and also the money
I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.

And thus I left the island, the 19th of December,
as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686,
after I had been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
months, and nineteen days; being delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that I first
made my escape in the barco-longo, from among the
Moors of Salle.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirty-and-five years absent.

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stran-
ger to all the world, as if I had never been known
there. My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I
left in trust with my money, was alive, but had had
great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow
the second time, and very low in the world. I made
her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble ; but, on the contrary, in gratitude ;
to her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock would afford, which at that time
would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindness
to me : nor did I forget her, when I had sufficient to
help her, as shall be observed in its place.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my fa-
ther was dead, and my mother, and all the family ex-
tinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of m brothers; and as I had been
long ago given over or dead, there had been no pro-
vision made for me, so that, in a word, I found no-
thing to relieve or assist me; and that the little mo-
ney I had, would not do much for me, as to settling in
the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indecd,11hich[
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship, 111mm I had so happily delivered, and 111' the
same 1nc:111s,sa1ed the ship and cargo, 11a1111g 5.111 on a
raw handsome account to the owners of the manner
11011 I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,
tl1e1 11111t1d me to meet them, and some other mer-
chants concc11,1ed and altooether made me a very
handsome co1npli111e11t upon the subject, and a present
of almost two 111111111 cd pounds sterling.

But, alttr making 501' end reflections upon the cir-
cumstance s of 1111' life, and how little 11 '111 this would
go 1011111111 settling me in the 11 orld, I resolved to go
to Lisbon and see if I might not come by some infor-
mation 01' the state of my plantation 1n the Brazils, and
of what was become of my partner, 11110, I had reason
to suppose, had some years now given me over for
dead

"'ith this 1ie11', I took shipping for Lisbon, where I
a1'1'i1 ed in 1111111 following: my man Fiiday accom-
p'1111mcr me 1'e1'1' honest11 in all these ramblings, and
proving a most iaithful servant upon all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the
captain of the ship who first took me up at sea, off the
shore of Africa. He had now grown old, and had left
of" the sea, l1a1i11g put his son, 11110 was far 110111 a
young man, into his ship, and who still used the
B1azi1 trade. '1 he old man did not know me, and 1n-
deed I hardly knew him, but. I soon brought m1 self
to his remembrance, when I told him who I was

After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my
plantation and my partner. The old man told me he
had not been 111 the Brazils for about nine years, but
that he could assm'e me, that when he came away my
partner was living, but the trustees whom I had joined
with him to take cognizance of my part, were both
dead; that, however, he believed that I would have
a very good account of the improvement of the plan-
tation, for that, in the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account
of the produce of my part of the plantation to the pro-
curater fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never
came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-thirds
to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for
the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the
Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared,
or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it would
be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could
not be restored: but he assured me, that the steward
of the king's revenue (from lands), and the provedore,
or steward of the monastery, had taken great care all.
along, and the incumbent, that is to say, my partner.
gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of
which they received duly my moiety.

I asked him if he knew to what height of improve-
ment he had brought the plantation; and whether he
thought it might be worth looking after; or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruc-
tion to my possessing my just right in the moiety.

He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that
my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoy-
ing but one half of it : and that to the best of his re-
membrance, he had heard that the king's third of my
part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other
monastery, or religious house, amounted to above two
hundred moidores a year; that, as to my being re-
stored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question
to be made of that, my partner being alive to witness
my title. and my name being also enrolled in the re-
gister ot the country. Also the told me that the sur-
vivors of the two trustees were very fair, honest peo-
ple, and 1"c11' 11ealtl1y: and he believed I would not
only hav e their assistance for putting me in possession,
but would tind a very considerable sum of money in
their hands f01 m1 account, being the produce of the
farm, while their fathers held the:3 trust, and before it
was given 11p. as above, which as he remembered, 11' as
for about twelve years. .

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and required of the old captain how it
came to pass that the trustees should tliiis dispose of
my cfl"-,e(ts 11111111 he kne11 that I had made n1_v11ill,
and had made him, the Portuguese captain, 1n1 uni1 er-
sal heir. &c.

He told me that 1v as true, but as there 11 as no proof
of my being de:,1d he could not act as executm. until
some ce1tain account should come of my death: and
that, besides, he 11 as not 111lhn0' t0 intermcddlc 111th a
thing so 1e1110te; that it 11as tine, he had 1egistered
my 11111 and put in his claim; and could he ha1c giv en
any account of 1111' being dead or alive, he would have
acted bv p1ocu1'ation, and taken possession 01 the 1n-
genio (so 111111 called the sugar-house), and had given
his son. 11110 11 as now at the Brazils, order to do it.

" But," sa_1 s the old man, 'I have one piece of 11e11s
to tell 1'011 11 inch pe1haps may not be so acceptable to
1011 as the 1est , and that 15, that, believing you were
lost, and all the 110,111 believing so also, 1our partner
and t1 11~tees did ofi'el to account to me, in 110111 name,
for six or eight of the first 1ea.1's 0t profits, 1111ich l
recciv ed: but there being at that time,' sa_1s he,

'great dispc1scmcnts for increasing the works, build-
ing an ingenio, and bu1ing slaves, ait did not amount
to near so much as afterward it procured. Ho11ever
says the old man, ' I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how I have disposed
of it.'

After a few days farther conference with this an-
cient friend, he brought me an account of the first six
years' income of my plantation, signed by my partner,
and the merchants' trustees, being always delivered in
goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, be-
sides rum, molasses, &c. which is the consequence of
a sugar-work; and I found, by this account, that
every year the income considerably increased. But,
as above, the disbursement being large, the sum at
first was small. However, the old man let me see
that he was indebted to me four hundred and seventy
moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and
fifteen double rools of tobacco, which were lost in his
ship, he having been shipwrecked coming home to
Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving the place.

The good man then be an to complain of his mis-
fortunes, and how he had een obliged to make use of
my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share
in a new ship. 'However, my old friend,' says he,
'you shall not want a supply in your necessity; and
as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied.'

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me
one hundred-and-sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and
giving me the writings of his title to the ship which his
son was going to Brazils in, of which he was a quarter-
part owner, and his son another, he puts them both
into my hands for security of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man, to be able to bear this ; and re-
membering what he had done for me, how he had
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and, particularly, how sincere a
fnend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weep-

Y
ins:- at what he said to me. 'l'heref'ore, first I asked

him if his 11'i1e111nst ances permitted him to spare so

111111111 money at that time, 111111 11' it 11ou11l not straiten

him. lle told me he could not say but it might

31111111111 him a little; h11t,l1011'e1'er, it was my money,
:11111 ' niigdit. want it. more than 1111.

131' e1'_1thin1_: the good man said was {'1111 of afl'eetion,
and I could hardly ref 11in from tears while he spoke.
I11 s1: mt 1 took one hundred of the moidores. and

11111111 1'111'. 1 pen and ink to 1.:11'e him areceipt for them;
then 1 1'1'1r1ui1ed him the 111st. and told him, if ever I
had possession of the plantation, I would return the
other to him also, as indeed I afterwards did; and that,
as to the 11111 01's '111e 01' his part. in his son's ship I
11011111 no: 1: 11111 it by any means; but that, it' I wanted
the 111111.11". found he was honest enough to pay me;
and if 1 did not but. come to 1'11eei1e what he Laue me
reasons to expect, I 11'011'111 never 11:11'1 :1 penny more
from him.

'11 111111 this 1111s passed. the old man hogan to ask me
if he sho111d put me in a method to make 1111' 11ai1n to
my plantation. I told him. I thought to L1'0 over to it
m1 seh'. 110 said, I might do so, it I pleased, but
that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure
my 1'iL'1ht. and innnediately to approp1iate the profits
to 1111' use: and as there were shins 111 the river of
Lisbon. 111st ready to go away to Brazil he made me
enter m_1 name in a public register with his affidm 1t
afiirminLr. upon oath, that I 1111s a1i1-' e, and that I was
the same person who took 11p the land for the planting
the said plantation at first.

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation afiixed, he directed me to send it with a letter
of his waiting, to a merchant of his acquaintance at
110 place; and then proposed my staying with him till
an account came of the return.
Never a111t11ino1 11115 more honourable than the pro-
cccdings upon this 1111111cu1ation , for 1n less than seven
months I 11L1(1ei1 ed a lartre packet 110m the sur1 1101's of
1111 tiustees. the merchants 1'01 whose account I went
to sea. in 11 Inch were the followinw particular letters
and papers enclosed: --

1 irst there was the account cu1rent of the produce
of 1111 farm. 011 plantation, from the year when their
l'athms had balanced 111th m1 old Portugal captain
heinu tb11si.;1-'ears; the balance appeared to be one
thousand one hundred and sL1ent1-four moidores in
1111 1111110111. 1

Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before
the government claimed the administration, as being
the effects of a person not to be found, which they call
civil death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, was to an amount in crusadoes,
which make three thousand two hundred and forty-one
moidorcs.

Thirdly, there was the prior of the Augustine's ac-
count, 11110 had received the profits for above fourteen
11-ears , but not being able to account for what 11 as dis-
posed to the hospital, verv honestly declared he had
eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed,
11111c11 he acknowledged to my account. As to the
king's s1,pait that refunded nothino.

There was also a letter of my partner's, congratulat-
11101 me 1 cry affectionately upon my being alive, giving
me an account how the estate was improved, and what
it produced a year 111th a particular of the number of
squares, or acres that it contained: how planted, how
many s1a1' cs there were upon it; and, making two-
and- t11 enty crosses, for blessings, told me he had said
so manv " Ave Marias," to thank the Blessed Virgin
that I 11' as alive; 1n11t1n01 me, very passionately, to

Y2
come over and take possession of my own; and, 1n
the mean time, to give him order to whom he should
deliver my effects, if I should not come myself, con-
cluding 111th a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his family , and sent me, as a present, seven
fine leopard's skins, which he had, it seems, received
fiom Africa, 111' some other ship, which he had sent
thithe1, and which, it seems, had made a better voyage
than I. He sent me, also, five chests of excellent s11 eet-
meats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite
so large as moidores.

By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped
me tw'el1e hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred
rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in
gold.

I might 11 e11 say now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It 1s impossible
to cxp1ess the fluttering ofn my very heart, when I
looked 01c1' these letters, and especially1 when I found
all my wealth about me; for as the B1 a21l ships come
all 1n fleets, the same ships which brought my lette1s
brought my goods, and the effects 11"e1e safe in the
Tagus beforbe the letters came to my hand. In a 11' 0111
I turned pale, and giew sick; and had not the old
man mm and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden
surprise of101' had overset nature, and I had died upon
the spot.

Nay, after that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the 1eal cause of my illness being kno11 n, he
o1'de1ed me to be bled. after which I had relief, and
grew 11 e11: but I 1erily believe, if it had not been
eased b1 the vent given in that manner to the spirits,
I should have died.

I 11 as 11011 1naste1, all on a sudden, of above five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate,d

ROBINSON causon. 245

as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thou-
sand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which
I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the be-
ginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him
all that was sent to me. I told him that, next to the
providence of Heaven, which disposes all things, it
was owing to him; and that it new lay on me to re-
ward him, which I would do a hundred fold. So I
first returned to him the hundred moidores I had re-
ceived of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused
him to draw up a general release, or discharge, for the
four hundred and seventy moidores, which he had ac-
knowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest
manner possible: after which, I caused a procuration
to be drawn, empowering him to be the receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my
partner to account to him, and make the returns by
the usual fleets to him, in my name. And a clause in
the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a year
to him, during his life, out of the effects; and fifty
moidores a year to his son after him, for his life: and
thus I requited my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had thus put into my hands ; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now, than I had in my silent state
of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas
I had now a great charge upon me, and my business
was now to secure it. I had never a cave now to hide
my money in, or a place where it might lie without

Y3
lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished before
anybody would meddle with it; on the contrary, I
knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it;
my old patron the captain, indeed, was honest, and
that was the only refuge I had.

In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed
to summon me thither : but now I could not tell how
to think of going thither till I had settled my affairs,
and left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At
first, I thought of my old friend the widow, who I
knew was honest, and would be just to me; but then
she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew,
might be in debt; so that, in a word, I had no way
but to go back to England myself, and take my effects
with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I beoan to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had 'been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a mer-
chant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in Lon-
dou,--not only to pay a bill, but to go, find her out,
and carry her in money (a hundred pounds), from me,
and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty,
by telling her she would, if I lived, have a farther
supply. At the same time, I sent my two sisters in
the country, each of them a hundred pounds, they
being, though not in want, yet not in very good cir-
cumstances ; one having been married, and left a
widow, and the other having a husband, not so kind to
her as he should be.

But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durst commit the
gross of my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils,
and leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly per-
plexed :ne.

1 had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and
have settled myself there: for I was, as it were,
naturalised to the place; but I had some little scruple
in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me
back, of which I shall say more patently. However,
it was not religion that kept me from going thither for
the present; and as I had made no scruple of beino
Openly of the religion of the country all the while I
was among them, so neither did I yet; only that now
and then having of late thought more of it than for-
merly, when I began to think of living and dyino
among them, I began to regret my having professed
myself a papist, and thought it might not be the best
religion to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my effects behind me;
so I resolved at last to go to England with them, where
if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaint-
ance, or find same relations that would be faithful to
me : and accordingly I prepared to go to England with
all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first
(the Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved to
give answers suitable to the just and faithful account of
things I had from thence. And first to the prior of
St. Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just
dealings, and the offer of the eioht hundred and
seventy-two moidores, which were undisposed of, which
I desired might be given, five hundred to the moms.
tery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor,
as the prior should direct; desiring the good padres'
prayers for me, and the like.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
1'ith all the ackno11-'ledgn1ent that so much justice and
honesty called for. ' as for sending them a present, they
new far abo1' c having any occasion for it.

Lastly, I mom to my partner, acknowledging his
1ndust1'1' in the improving the plantation, and his 111-
tegl 1t) in increasing the stock of the works, giving him
instructions for hisn future gov e1 nment of my pait, ac--
cording to the po 1ers Ihad left with 1111' old patron, to
11110111 I desired him to send 11l1ate1erbeca1nc due tso
me, till he should hear from me more partieul1nl1, a
suring hint that it 1115 my intention not only to come
to him, but to settle m1' self there for the remainder of
my life. To this I added a very handsome piesent of
some Italian silks for his 111fe and t11o daughters, for
such the 'aptain's sson informed me he had, - 111th t11o
pieces of fine Isng'lish broad-cloth, the best I could get
111 Lisbon 111 e pieces of black baizc, and some Flanders
lace of a 'oodg value.

Having:-> thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all 1111' effects into good hills of exchange,m
next difficulty 11 as which way to go to England. 8I had
been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a
strange 111' 12131011 to go to England by sea at that time ,
and though I could give no reason for it, yet the diffi-
culty inc1eascd uponc me so much, that though I had
once shipped my baggage in o1dcr to go, vet I altered
m1 mind, and that not once, but two or three times.

It is true I had been 1"e1y unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the masons: but let no man
stake the strong impulse of his own thoughts In case of
such moment. '1' we of the ships which I had singled out
to go 111,1 mean more particularly singled out than any
other, that is to say, so as in one of: them to put my
things 011 board, 111111 in the other to ha1e agreed with
the captain , I sa1't11'o or three ships miscarried, 112.,
one 1111s taken 11' th 12 .'1lgeri11es, and the other 1111s cast
away on the Start, near 'l'orbay, and all the people
drowned except three: so that m either of those ves-
sels I had been made miserable, and in which most, it
was hard to say.

Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated everything, pressed me
earnestly not to go by sea: but e1ther to go by land
to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to
Rochelle, from whence it was an easy and safe journey
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover ; or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through
France.

In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going
by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I re-
solved to travel all the way by land, which, as I was
not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasanter way; and to make it more so, my
old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of
a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with
me. After which, we picked up two more, who were
English, and merchants also, and two young Portugese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that we
were in all six of us, and five servants: the two mer-
chants, and the two Portuguese, contenting themselves
with one servant between two, to save the char e; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel wit me as
a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much
a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a
servant on the road.

In this manner I set out for Lisbon: and our
company being all very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was
the original of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea jour-
nals, so shall I trouble 1'011 with none of 11W land
,111'111 11s. but some adventures that happened to us
in tin 1s tedious and difficult 111111'111'1', I must not omit.

"'111'11111'1'111111'toMa1lr.id 11 e heme: all of 11s strangers
to Sp 1111. were willing to st11_1' some time to see the
1ourt of Spain. and to see what was worth ol')se1'1ing, -
but it beinn' 13:1 latter part of the $1 111,11ne1' 'ehastened

away. and se': out fr01111l1dr11l about the middle 01'
October. But when we (1111111: to the edge of \111'111're

C were :1l: 111111'11 at, several towns on the 11.11 with 111i
account. that so much snow had fallen 011 the 1 reneh
side of 1"111111101111tai11s, that se1'e '111 travellers were
obliged to 1'1111111 back to 1'11111pelu11a, after having at-
tempted. 11111.11 extreme he aza11,l to pass 011.

'1' hen 11 e came to P11111pe1una itself, we found. it so
indeed , and to me, that 111d been .1l11'11's used to a hot
climate, . 11d indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear 11111' clothes on, the cold 1111si11sulfer1.1ble Nor
indeed was it mow painful than it was surprising, to
come but ten 1la1sbetore out of the Old Castile, 11 her
the 11'1tl111' was not 011l1' warm, but. very hot; and
immedi: 1tel_1' to feel a 111ndt1'o111 the P1 rene'm moun-
tains so 1'1'1'. heen, so se1'erel1'eold,as to be intolera-
ble, and to endanger benumbing or perishing of our
fingers and toes.

Poor 11i1la1' 11' as reallv frightened when hes saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
11l1i1 l1 he had never seen or felt before 1n his life.

To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so
lo11g,tl1at the people said winter was come before its
time, and the wads, which were difficult before were
now quite impassable , in a word, the snow lay in
some places too thick for us to travel, and being not
hard frozen, as is the case in the northern countries,
there 11 as no going without being in danger of being
buried alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty
days at Pampeluna when (seeing the winter coming on,
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
severest winter all over Europe that had been known
for many years) I proposed that we should all go away
to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux,
which was a very little voyage.

But while we were considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who having been stopped on
the French side of the passes as we were on the Spa-
nish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the coun-
try near the head of Languedoc, had brought them
over the mountains by such ways, that they were not
much incommoded with the snow; and where they met
with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard
enough to hear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us he would under-
take to carry us the same way, with no hazard from
the snow provided we were armed sufficiently to protect
us from wild beasts; for he said, upon. these great
snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show them-
selves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow.
We told him we were well enough prepared for such
creatures as they were, if he would ensure us from a
kind of two-legged wolves, which we were told we were
in most danger from, especially on the French side cf
the mountains.

I-Ie satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in
the way that we were to go. So we readily agreed to
follow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who as I
said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.

Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November, and indeed
I was surp11sed when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us, on the same rDread that we
came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having
passed two rivers, and come into the plain countr1, we
found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the
country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen, but on
a sudden, turnine to the left, he approached the
mountains another way; and though it is t111e, the
hills and the preeipiees looked dre adf,ul 1'et he made
so man1 tours, such meanders, and led 11s 111' such
winding 11 M s, we had insensibl1 passed the. l1ei1rht of
the mountains without being much encumbered 111th
the snow; and, all on a sudden he showed us the
pleasant f111itful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne,
all wreen and flourishing, ' thouoli indeed the1' 11 e at a
great distance, and we had some 5rough 11'111' to pas s yet.
"'0 11 me a little uneasy, how ever, 11 hen we found it
$11011 e11 one whole day, and at ni0'l1t so iast that we
could not tune]: but he bade 11s be eas1, we should
soon be past it all. \Vc found, indeed, that we besran
to descend e1' 1111' 11111;, and to come more 1101tl1 than
before 1.; and so, depending upon 0111'1rui11e,11'e11ent on.
It was about two hours befow 1111.zlit,111icn our guide
being something- before us, and net just in sight out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and after theni a bea1 ,
out 01 a hollow way, adjoinin1r to a thick 110011 Two
of the w'ol1es flew upon the guide, and had he been
half a mile before us he would have been devoured
indeed, before we could have helped him. One of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked
the man with that violence, that he had not time, 01'
not presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but
hallooed 11nd cried out to us most h1stil1'. M1 man
I" r1dav beinv next to me, I bade him ride up, and see
What was the matter. As soon as 111111111 came in sight
of the man, he hallooed as loud as the other, "0
master! 0 master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode
directly up to the man, and, with a pistol, shot the
wolf that attacked him into the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he, having been used to that kind of
creature in his country, had no fear upon him, but
went up close to him, and shot him as above; whereas
any of us would have fired at a farther distance, and
have, perhaps, either missed the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man
than I; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides
the most dismal howling of wolves, and the noise re-
doubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us
as if there had been a prodigious multitude of them;
and perhaps indeed there were not such a few, as that
we had no cause of apprehension.

Iowever, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had fastened upon his horse, left him immediately,
and fled, having happily fastened upon his head, where
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him much hurt. The man, indeed, was
most hurt: for the raging creature had hit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knee: and he was just, as it were, tumbling down by
the disorder of his horse, when Friday came up and
shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose, that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up, as fast as
the way (which was very difiicult) would give us leave,
to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear
of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw plainly
what had been the cause, and how Fridayhad disengaged
the poor guide; though we did not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had killed.

2
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner, as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the beai', which gave us all (though
at first 11 0 were surprised and atiaid for him) the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear 1s a heavy,
clums1' c1 cature, and (lees not gallop as the wolf does,
1111101 is s111tt and 1i; ht; so he has two particular
qualities, which generaliy are the rule of his actions.
First. as to men, 11110 me not his proper prey. I say,
not his p1opc1' p1'e1', though I cannot say what excessi1e
hunger might do, which was now their case, the ground
being all cov ered with snow; 1',ct as to men, he does
not. usually attack them, unless they first attack him:
on the contrar 111, if you meet him in the woods, though
if 1' 011 do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with
1'011, 1'ct then you must take care to be very civil to
him and give him the road; for he is a very nice
ge11tle111an,l1e 11111 not go a step out of his way for a
p1incc; na1', if you are brcally af1ai 11, your best way is
to look another 11' 111', and keepg o10mg on; for sometimes
if 1011 stop and stand still, and look steadfastly at him,
he takes 1t for an affront, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfaction
in point of honour: and, this 1s his first quality The

ext is. that if he be once affronted, he will never leave
you, night or day, till he has his revenge, but follow, at
a good round iate, till he o1ertakes you.

My 11a11 Fiid ay had delivered our guide, and when
we had come up to him, he was helping h 1m 01? from
his horse, for the man was both hurt and fri ghted, and
indeed the last more than the first; 11 hen, on a sudden,
11c spied the bear come out of the wood, and a vast
monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw.
We 11 ere all a little surprised when we saw him, but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to see] joy and courage
in the fellow' s countenance. " O! O! O. ' " says Fri-
day, three times, pointing to him; " 0, master, you
give me te leave, me shakee the hand with him, me
makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. " You
fool you," said I, "he will eat you up!" " Eatee me
up; Eatee me up? " says Friday, twice over again.
"Me eatee him up: me make you good laugh. You
all stay here: me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and put on a
pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear), and
which he had in his pocket, gives my other servant his
horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the
wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and ofi'ered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near, calls
to him, as if the bear could understand him, " Hark ye,
hark ye," says Friday, " me speakee wit you." We
followed at a distance; for now being come down to
:he Gascoigne side of the mountains, we entered a vast

orest.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone,
and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head;
but did him no more harm, than if he had thrown it
against a wall: but it answered Friday's end; for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and " show us some laugh," as he
called it.

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking very long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as
would put a horse to a middling gallop. Away runs
Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us
for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
bear, and deliver my man; though I was angry at him
heartin for bringing the hear back upon us, when he

22256 1101;1xsox canon.

was going about his own business another 11:11", and
especially I was a110'rv that he had turned the bear
upon us, and then 11111 aw ay; and I called out," '1011
dog," said I," is this \'0111' making 11s laugh? . Come
away, and take 1011r horse, that we mav shoot the
creature." Ile hears me, and cries out," \0 shoot,
no 5110153! ' 1111111 still: 1011 get much laugh." And
as the nimble creature ran two feet for the beast" -. s one,
he turned on a sudden, on one side of us. and seeing
a g1eat oak tice, fit" 101' his pm pose, he beckoned us to
follow, and doubling his pace, he gets nimblv up the
tree. 11'1' ing his gun down 011 the ground, at about fi1e
or six _1"1nds trom the bottom of the tree.

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at
a distance. The first thing he did he stopped at the
111111, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into
the t1',L'e (lim' oino' like a cat, though so monstrouslv
heavy. 11115 amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of
1111' man, and could not for 1111 life see any thing to
laugh at 1et, till seeinO' the bear get upon the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.

When 11c 01' me to the tree, there was Fridav got out
to the small end of a large limb of the tree, and the
bear got half 11 1w to him; as soon as the bear got out
to that pa .1t where the limb of the tree was weakei.
" Ma," 52115 he, to us, "now you see me teachee the
bear dance: " so he falls a jumping, and shaking the
bough, at which the bear begr n to totter, but stood still
and began to look behind1 aim, to see how he s]101 ld get
back: then indeed we did laugh heartilv. But 1' ridav
had not done with him bv a gre eat deal: 11' hen he sees
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as i1 he had
supposed the bear could speak English, ""hat, you
no come far'thei ? Prav vou come farther?" So he
left jumping and shaking the bough: and the bear,
just a: :-f be had understood what lie said, did come a
little farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the

bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on

the head, and I called to Friday to stand still and we
would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, " O,
pray! O, pray ! no shoot! Me shoot by and then."
He would have said, "by and by." However, to
shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the

 

bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough in-
deed, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking

28
the hear of}, and 11e found the been 11 as too cunning
101' that too , 101' he 11011111 not go out far enough to be
thro11 11 1101111, but elines fast with his are: it, lnoad
claws and feet, so that" we could not imagine 11 hat
would be the end of it, and 11'eher the jest 11.011 1d be at
last.

But F1id111' put us out of doubt quickly, for seeing
the bear cliniri fast to the bough, and that he would not
be persuaded to come any further," \l ell. 11 e11," 891's
1 1'ida1', " _1011 no 001110 farther, me go, me go, 1011 no
come to me, me come to 1"011. And upon this, he
goes out to the smallest end of the bough,1'11ere it
should bend 111th his weight, and gentlv lets himself
down bv it,slidinf.1' (101111 the bongh, till he came 11 111'
enough to jump 1101111 on his feet, and 1111111 he ran to
his gun, takes it up, and stands st: 11.

" \l ell ' said I to him, "l"rida1',11hat 11111 you do
n011"-'\\h_1' don't 1011 shoot him.' " " No shoot," sa1s
Friday, "110 1',ct me shoot now. me no hill: me stav,
give 1'011 one more laugh." And, indeed. so he did, as
1011 11111 see presentlv , for 11 hen the bear saw his
enemy none, he comes back from the bough "here he
stood; but did it mightv 1"]5111el1100kinsz behind him
even step. and coming: back" :11 ds till he not into the
bod1 of the tree. Then 11it11 the same, hinder end
foremost, he came down the tree,g rasping it with his
cla11 s, and 1110111101 one foot at a time, very leisurelv:
at this Junctui e, aiid just before he could set his hind
feet upon the grou11d,Frida_1' stepped close to him,
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot
him dead as 11 stone.

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not
laugh; and 11' hen he sa11 we 11 ere pleased, by 0111' looks
he falls a laughing himself, 1'er1r loud." So we kill
bear in 1111' co11ntr1,"sa1's Frida1 . "' So ~vou kill
them!" 5111111; "11111 you have no guns." "No,"
says he : " no guns; but shoot great, much, long
arrow.' '

Thi:111as,in(leed, a good diversion to us; but we
we1e still in a wild place, and our guide vcrv much
hurt, and what to do we hardly knew: the howling of
11 011 cs 1an much in my head; and, indeed, except the
noise I once heard on the shores of Africa, of which I
had said something alrear ", I never heard an) thing
th at filled me 11' ithtD so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Fridav would have had us, we should
haw certainly taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
turc off, which was wort th sa1 112'; kut we had three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left
him. and 11 cut for" a1 (1 to our journe1' .

The ground was still covered with snow, though not
so deep and d angerous as on the mountains , and the
1"a1enous creatures, as we heard afte111a1ds, were come
11011 11 into the forest and plam eou ntrv, pressed by
hunger, to seek for food: and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the
country people, killed a great many of their sheep and
horses, and some peopleb too.

We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any moie wolves in the
countrv, we should find them there , and this was a
small plain, surrounded 111th woods on every side; and
a long, narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset, when we en-
tere d the first wood; and a little after sunset when we
came into the plain. We met with nothing 1n the first
wood except that, in a little plain, within the wood,

1'l1ich 11 as not above two furlongs 01' er, we saw five
great 11 olves cross the road, full speed, one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey,
and had it in view. They took no notice of us, and
were gone, and out of sight 1n a few moments.

Upon this, our guide, 11110, by the way, was a
wretched faint- hearted fellow, bade us keep 1n a ready
posture , for he believed there new more 11011 es a
coming.

We 8kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood which was near half a league, and entered the
plain. is soon as we came into the plain, we had oc-
casion enough to look about 11s. The fn st object we
met with, was a dead horse; that is to say, a poor
horse, which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen
of them at 110111; we could not my, eating of him, but
picking of his bones, rather , for they had eaten up all
the flesh before.

II e did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us. I"1ida1-'11ould
have let fly at them, but I 11 011111 not suffer hini b1' any
means: for I found we 11e1e like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aw are of. We 11 me not
gone half mm the plain, but we began to hear the
wolves howl, in the wood on our left, in a f1ightful
manner, and presently aftc1 we saw about a hundred
coming on directly towards us, all 1n a body, and most
of them in a line, as regular as an army d1a1111 up by
experienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them, but found, to draw ourselves in a
close line was the only way. So we formed in a mo-
ment. But that we might not have too much interval,
I ordered that only every other man should fire, and
that the others who had not fired, should stand ready
to give them a second volley immediately, if they con-
tinued to advance upon us; and that then, those who
had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusils
again, but stand ready with every one a pistol; for we
were all armed with a fusil, and a pair of pistols, each
man : so we were, by this method, able to fire six
volleys, half of us at a time. However, at present, we
had no necessity; for, upon firing the first volley, the
enemy made a full stop, being terrified, as well with the
noise as with the fire: four of them being shot into the
head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went
bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I found
they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; where-
upon remembering that I had been told, that the
fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of man. I
caused all our company to halloo as loud as we could :
and I found the notion not altogether mistaken; for,
upon our shout, they began to retire, and turn about;
then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear,
which put them to the gallop, and away they went to
the woods.

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lose no time, we kept going; but we
had but little more than loaded our fusils, and put our-
selves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible noise
in the same wood on our left; only that it was farther
onward, the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it the worst on our side ; but the
noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it was
the howling and yelling of those vile creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one on
our front: so that we seemed to be surrounded with
them. However, as they did not fall upon us, we kept
our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses
go, which, the way being very rough, was only a good
large trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood, through which we were
to pass, at the father side of the plain; but we were
greatly surprised, when, coming near the lane, or pass,
we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at
the entrance.

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
heard the noise of a gun; and, looking that way, out
rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle on him, flying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after
him, full speed. Indeed the horse had the heels of
them ; but, as we supposed that he could not hold at
that rate, we doubted not that they would get up with
him at last ; and no question but they did.

Here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up
to the entrance where the horse came out, we found
the carcase of another horse, and of two men devoured
by the ravenous creatures, and one of the men was no
doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun ; for there
lay the gun just by him fired off ; but. as to the man,
his head, and the upper part of his body, were eaten
u .

pThis filled us with horror, and we knew not what
coarse to take ; but the creatures resolved us soon, for
they gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey;
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them.
It happened very much to our advantage, that at the
entrance of the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage. I drew my little troop in among these trees, I
advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree before
us, for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle or three
fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre.

We did so; and it was well we did, for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us
in this place: they came on us with a growling kind of
noise, and mounted the piece of timber (which as I
said was our breastwork), as if they were only rushing
upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our horses be-
hind us, which was the prey they aimed at. I
ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure, that indeed they
killed several wolves at the first volley; but there was
a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired our second volley of our fusils,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have one off, but it was but a moment, for
others came orward again: so we fired two volleys of
our pistols, and I believe in these four firings, we
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice
as many : yet they came on again.

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily: so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was bet-
ter employed; for, with the greatest dexterity imagin-
able, he charged my fusil, and his own, while we
were engaged; but, as I said, I called my other man;
and given him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
large train. He did so, and had but just time to get
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
got upon it, when I snapped an uncharged pistol close
to the powder, set it on fire. Those that were upon
the timber were scorched with it, and seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force or
the fright of the fire. We dispatched these in an in~
stant, and the rest where so frighted with the light.
which the night, for now it was very nigh dark, made
more terrible, that they drew back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last pastols to be fired off
in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon
this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately
upon near twenty lame ones, which we found strug-
ghng on the ground, and fell a cutting them with our
swords 11 h1cha'1s" cred our expectation, for the cry-

ing, and howling they made were better understood by
their fellows, so 3that they all fled and left us.

lVe had, ['11 st and last, killed about threescore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of battle being thus cleared, 11c made
forward again, for we had still near a league to go.

We heard the 1avenous creatures howl and 1'ell1n the
woods as 11c went, several times; and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the snow dazzling
our 01' es, 11c were not certain: so in about an hour,
1no1e, we came to the town, 11here we were to lodge
which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms;
for it seems that the night before, the wolves and some
bears 1111.1 broken into the villiage and put them in a
terrible fright, and they 11ere obliged to keep guard,

night and, day, but especially 1n the night to prese '1'e
their cattle, and indeed their people.

The next morning our guide 11 as so ill, and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two 11' ounds,
that he could go no farther; so we were obliged to
take another guide there, and go to Toulouse, 1' here
we found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant co 1ntr1',
and no snow, no 11 olves, nor any thing like them. But
when we told our story at '1'1101ilousea they told us it
was nothing but 11 hat was ordinary in the great forest,
at the foot of t we mountains, especially when the snow
lay on the 0'1 ounl But they inquired much what
kind of a guide we had gotten, that would venture to
bring us that 11 111' in such'1 a severe season. and told
us,1 it w- as 1'er1 1: luck we 11 ere not all devoured; 11hen
we told them how we had placed ourselves, and the
horses 1n th middle, they blamed us exceedinglv, and
told us it was 1i1 "t1' to one but we had all been des-
troyed; for it was the sight of the horses that 111ade
the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and that at
other times they are really afraid of a gun; but they
being excessively hungry, and raging on that account,
the eagerness to come at the horses had made them
senseless of the danger; and that if we had, not by
the continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the
train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds
but that we had been torn in pieces - whereas, had we
been content to have sat still on horseback, and fired
as horsemen they would not have taken the horses so
much for their own, when men were on their backs, as
otherwise; and, withal, they told us, that, at last, if
we had stood all together, and left our horses, they
would have been so eager to have devoured them,
that we might have. come off safe, especially having our
fire arms in our hands, and being so many in number.

For my part, I never was so sensible of danger in
my life; for seeing above three hundred wolves come
roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
nother to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over
for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to
cross those mountains again: I think I would much
rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I were
sure to meet with a storm once a week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France; nothing but what other tra-
vellers have given an account of, with much more
advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
to Paris, and, without any considerable stay, came
to Calais, and landed safely at Dover, the fourteenth
of January, after having had a severely cold season to
travel in.

I was now come to the centre cf my travels, and
had, in a little time, all my new-discovered estate safe
about me, the bills of exchange which I brought with
me having been very currently paid,

AA
M1-111incipal guide and p1'i11-couns cllor, was my

00d, ancient 11'ido11, who, 111 gratitudei for the money

had sent her, thought no pains too much, or care
too gr.eat to employ for me, and I trusted her so en-
tirely with e1' crything that I was perfectl1 easy as to
the secu1'it1 of 1111 etiects: an 1, indeed, I was very
happy from the beginning, and 11011' to the end, in the
unspottcd integrit1 of this good 1rcntle110m'1n.

And 111111 I began to think ot 1e1111n1r my effects with
this 1101111111, and setting out for Lisbon. and so to the
Bra21ls.13ut 11011 another s '1'uple mine in my 11' ay,
and that was 1eligion; for as I had entertained some
doubts about then Roman religion, even while-1' was
abroad, 1111110111111 in my state of solitude: so I knew
there was no going to the I3razils for me, much less
going to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the
Roman Catholic religion, 11 1thout any reservge except,
on the other hand, Ir.esol"ed to be a sacrifice to my
principles he. a mu t1 1' for religion, and die in the In-
quisition: so I resol1ed to sta1 at home, and if I could
and means for it, to d ispose of 1n1 plantation.

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
"110,1n1'cturn, gave me notice, that he eouid easily
dispose of it there; but that, it I thought fit to give
I'lll'lll 1e'1'11e to offer it in my name to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, 11110 lived 1n the Brazils,
who must fully understand the mine of it, who lived
just upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very rich,
so that he believed they would be fond of bu1 mo it;
he did not doubt, but I should make four or fi1e thou-
sand pieces of eight the more of it.

Accouiingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and he did so; and in about eight months more,
the ship being then r,eturned he sent me an account,
that they had accepted the otter, and had remitted
thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspon-
dent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me bills of exchange for thirty-tvvo
thousand eight hundred pieces of eight, for the estate,
reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a year
to :zim, the old man, during his life, and fifty moidores
afterward to his son for his life, which I had promised

them ; and which the plantation was to make good as
a rent charge.

U

And thus I have given the history of a life of for-
tune and adventure, :1 life of Providence's checker-
work, and of a variety which the world will seldom
show the like of--beginning foolishly, but closing
much more happily than any part of it ever gave me
leave so much as to hope for.

Any one would think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards;
and so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had
concurred: but I was inured to a wandering life, had
no family. nor many relations, nor, however rich, had I
contracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold
my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep that
country out of my head, and had a great mind to be
upon the wing again; especially as I could not resist
the strono inclination I had to see my island, and to
know if the poor Spaniards were in being there, and
how the rogues I had left there had used them.

My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost
seven years she prevented my runnin<r abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, .t e children of one
of my brothers, into my care. The eldest havin
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, an
gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate

AA2
after my dccease: the other I put out to a captain of .
a ship; and after five years, finding him a sensible, '

bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good
ship, and sent him to sea. And this young fellow
afterward drew me in, old as I was, to farther adven-
tures myself.

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here: for
first of all I married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction; and had three children, two
sons' and one daughter. But my wife dying, and
my nephew coming home, with good success, from a
voyage to Spain. my inclination to go abroad, and his
importnnity. prevailed, and engaged me to go in his
ship as a private trader to the East Indies. This was
in the year 169-1.

In this voyage, I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors, the Spaniards; had the whole story
of their lives. and of the villains I left there; how at
first they insulted the poor Spaniards; how they after-
ward agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if
it were entered. into, as full of variety and wonderful
incidents, as my own part: particularly also as to
their battles with the Carribeans, who landed several
times upon the island itself: and how five of them
made an attempt upon the main land, and brought
away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which,

at mv coming, I found about twenty young children on

the island.

Here I staid about twenty days, left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen which I
brought from England with me: viz., a carpenter and
a smith.

l
l
Besides this, I shared the island into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of the whole, but
gave them such parts respectively as they agreed on;
and having settled all things with them, and engaged
them not to leave the place, I left them there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people
to the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent
seven women, being such as I found proper for service,
or for wives to such as would take them. As to the
Englishmen I promised them to send them some women
from England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they
would apply themselves to planting, which I afterward
could not perform. The fellows proved very honest
and diligent, after they were mastered, and had their
property set apart for them. I sent them also from the
Brazils five cows, three of them with calves, some sheep,
and some hugs, which, when I came again, were con-
siderably increased.

After this, however, three hundred Carribees came
and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and ;
they fought with that whole number twice, and were
at first defeated, and one of them killed: but at last a
storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished
or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and re-
covered the possession of their plantation, and still
lived upon the island. I had some very surprising in-
cidents, in some new adventures of my own, for several
years more; but now, having lived seventy-two years,
a life of infinite variety, and learned sufficiently to know
the value of retirement and the blessing of ending our
days in peace, I have resolved to harrass myself no
more, and am therefore preparing for a longer journey
than any I have yet undertaken.

THE END.