l .

!

i 1'
f "a

l

Y=

3

I

l-

 
    

ROBLN'SON CRUSOE,
GULLIVER'S TRAVELS

COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME. -

 

NEW-YORK:
PUBLISHED BY J. SLATi-IR,-12 DIVISION-ST.3833736933 @EEFEGDE.

I36)I LIFE AND ADVENTURES \

 

ROBINSON CRUSGEz

FROM THE ORIGINAL WORK OF

DANIEL DEFOE,
NEW EDITION,
CAREFULLY ADAPTED 'I'O YOUTH.

   
  
  

         

. 19:. mmmmxyggmgr

<<
. f _
' .
, .' '. -_
. . '1 1 ; , . ' '4'
I' ' , '
,. ,. x. "hm-.. - f"-
. 3!. 1-2;
I ' 'l . 3'3 ,-' '
u ' '.
I I
'11 t 1' '
L .
(v 4' I

   
  

      

NEW-YORK :

PUBLISHED BY J. SLATER,

Embellished with neat Engraving: on Wood.
42 DIVISION-STREET. i
 

[was born of a good family in the city of York, where
my father, who was a native of Bremen, had settled, after
having got a handsome estate by merchandise. My brain
was early filled with rambling thoughts; but my father of-
ten persuaded me to settle to some business, and my moth-
er used the tenderest entreaties, yet nothing could prevail
upon me to lay aside my desire of going to seafnotwith-
standing the extreme uneasiness which my father and
mother always showed at the thoughts of my leaving
them. I hardened myself against the prudent and kind
advice of my most indulgent parents, and being one day at
Hull, I met with one of my companions, who was going to
sea in his father's ship, and he easily persuaded me to go
with him. 4,0n the let of September, 1751, I went on
board the ship, which was bound for London, and without
letting my father know the rash and disobedient step I had
taken, set- sail; but no sonner was the ship out of the
Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the sea to rise
in a most terrible manner. Having never been at sea be-
fore, l was sick, and my mind was filled with terror. The
next day the wind abated, and the sea grew calm; I was
no longer seasick, and my companion laughed at my fears.
The weather continued calm for several days, and we at

. 1'6 aonmsox causon.

length came into Yarmouth roads, where we cast anchor

to wait for a wind. On the eighth day in the morning,
the wind increased. I now began to see terror in the faces

even of the seamen themselves ; and as the master passed
by me, I could hear him say softly to himself, 'Lord be
merciful to us, we shall be lost.' When I heard this I was
terribly frightened; such a dismal sight I had never seen
before, the sea ran mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes. I cannot express the horror
of mind I was then seized with. The storm still increased,
and I saw (what is but too seldom seen) the master, the
boatswain, and several others at prayers, expecting every
moment the ship would go to the bottom. The storm how-
ever beginning to abate, the master fired guns for help, and
a light ship which had ridden it out just ahead of us, ven-
tured a boat to help us. It was with the utmost hazard
that it came near us ; and our men casting a rope over the
stem with a buoy, they, after much labor and hazard,
got hold of it, and we hauled them close under the stern,
and got all into the boat. But we had hardly left the ship
a quarter of an hour, when we saw her founder.

As it was impossible for the boat to get up with the ship
to which she belonged, we endeavored to reach the shore,
and partly by rowing, and partly by being driven by the
waves, we at last, with great difficulty, got to land, and
walked to Yarmouth. Had I now had the sense to return
home, my father would have received me with tenderness :
but a weak and foolish shame opposed all thoughts of it; I
was afraid of being laughed at among the neighbors, and
should be ashamed to see not only my father, but every
body else. I had, without blushing, committed an action
which bore all the marks of folly, but was ashamed of re-
turning, though that was the wisest step I could have
taken. I remained some time in doubt what course to

take; but having money in my pocket, I travelled to Lon-.
nonmsox causal-z. 7

don by land. On my arrival in that city, the master of a
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, taking a fancy
to me, told me, that if I would go the voyage with him I
should be at no expense; and if I would carry any thing
with me, I should have the advantage of trading for myself.
Encouraged by this offer, by the assistance of some of my
relations, with whom I still corresponded, I raised forty
pounds, which I laid out in such toys and triflas as he di-
rected me to buy. During this voyage, my worthy friend in-
structed me in the mathematics, and the rules of naviga-
tion; this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for
my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return,
almost three hundred pounds sterling. I was now set up
for a Guinea trader; but my friend, to my great misfor-
tune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again, and having left two hundred pounds in the
hands of my friend's widow, I embarked in the same vessel.
This was one of the most unhappy voyages that ever man
made; for as we were steering between the Canary Islands

and the African shore, we were surprised in the gray of
the morning by a Moorish rover of Salee, who gave chase

to us with all the sail she could make. We were obliged
to submit, and were all carried prisoners into Salee, a port
belonging to the Moors. I was kept by the captain of the
rover as his own prize, and made his slave.

My master, having the longboat of our English ship, had
a little state room, or cabin, built, in the middle of it, like
a barge. In this pleasure boat we frequently went out
fishing; and one day he had appointed to go out with two
or three Moors of distinction, and had therefore sent over
night a larger store of provisions than usual; and ordered
me to get ready two or three fusees with powder and shot,
which were on board his ship; for that they designed to8 ROBINSON causoa.

have sport at fowling as well as fishing. But in the morn-
ing he came on board, telling me that his guests had de-
clined going, and ordered me, with the man and boy, to
sail out with the boat, and catch some fish, for his friends
were to sup with him. At this moment the hopes of my
deliverance darted into my thoughts; every thing bemg
prepared, we sailed out of the port to fish; but purposely
catching none, I told Muley that this would not do, and
that we must stand farther off, which he agreeing to, we
set sails, and I, having the helm, ran the boat out near a
league farther, and then brought her to, as if I would fish;

 

when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forwards, and
stooping behind the Moor, took him by surprise and tossed
him into the sea; he arose immediately, for he swam like
a cork, and called to me to take him in; but fetching out
one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at him, and told
him that ifhe came near the boat, I would shoot him, so
he turned about, and swam towards the land, and, as he
was an excellent swimmer, I make no doubt but that he
reached the shore with ease. When he was gone, I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, 'Xury
if you will be faithful to me, I will make you a great man,
but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me, (that
is, to swear by Mahomet and his father's beard) I must
throw you into the sea too.' The boy smiled in my face,
and spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him; he
swore to be faithful to me, and to go over all the world
with me.

While I was in view of Muley, I stood out to sea, but it
no sonner grew dark, than I changed my course, and steer-
ed to the south. I made such sail, that before the end of
the next day, I believe I was beyond the Emperor of Mo-
rocco's dominions. Yet so dreadful were my apprehensions
of falling again into my master's hands, that I would not
stop to go on shore till I had sailed in this manner five
days ; and then, the wind shifting to the southward, I ven-
tured to come to an anchor at the mouth of a little river.

The principal thing I wanted was fresh water; but
though I was no less afraid of the savages than of the wild

beasts, our necessities obliged us to land, for we had not a
pint. The next morning Xury asked for one of the jars,
and said he would go and seek for water. I asked him
why he would go. The boy answered with so much afi'ec-
tion, that I could not help loving him,--' If wild man
comes, they eat me, you go away.'---' Well, Xury,' said I,
'we will both go, and if the wild men come, we kill them;
they.shall eat neither of us.' I then gave Xury a dram

out of one of the case bottles, and having hauled the boat
as near the shore as we thought proper, we waded to land,

carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.
The boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled thither; and, by-and-by, I saw him come running
towards me, when, thinking he might be pursued by some

savages, or frightened by some wild beast, I ran to meet
him; but when I came nearer, I saw something hanging
over his shoulder, which was a creature he had shot, like
a hare, and we found it very good meat; but the great joy
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me that he had found
good water, and seen no wild mans. We therefore filled
our jars, feasted on our hare, and then set sail.

Several times after, we were obliged to go ashore for
fresh water; and once in particular, early in the morning,
Xury called softly to me, and told me, that we had best go
farther off the shore; ' for,' says he, 'look, yonder lies a
dreadful monster, fast asleep.' I looked where he pointed,
and saw a great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under
the shade of a piece of the hill that hung a little over him;
upon which, charging my three guns, I took aim at his
head, but laying with his foot raised a little above his nose,
the slug broke his leg. He started up growling, but fell
down again, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I
heard; but firing again, and shooting him in the head, I
had the pleasure to see him drop. I resolved to take off
his skin, and going ashore, the boy and I accomplished it:
then, spreading it upon the top of the cabin, the sun dried
it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon.

About ten days after, as I was steering out to sea, in or-

der to double a cape, I had the view of some islands, which
I supposed to be those of Cape Verd. I was afraid of ven-
turing so far from the shore, for if I should be taken with a
fresh gale of wind, I might never be able to reach again
the one or the other. In this dilemma I sat down in the
cabin, when on a sudden, Xury cried out in a fright,
'Master, master, a ship!' foolishly imagining that it wasnonmson cnUsor-z. ll

his master's ship, come so far in pursuit of us. I jumped
out of the cabin, and saw that it was a Portuguese vessel,
and instantly stretched out to sea with all the sail I could
make: they perceived me by the help of their glasses, and
shortened sail to let me me come up. A Scotch sailor on
board called to me, and I answered, that I had made my
escape from the Moors at Salee. They very kindly took
me in and all my goods. We had a very good voyage to
the Brazils, and arrived at All Saints' Bay in about twenty-
two days. The generous captain recommended me to an
honest man who had a plantation, with whom I lived till I
had learned the manner of planting and making sugar, after
which I purchased a piece of land, and became a planter.
I had lived there about four years, and had contracted an
acquaintance among several merchants. I had frequently
talked to them of the method of purchasing negroes on the
coast of Guinea, and they being pleased with the project,
easily prevailed on me to make a voyage for that purpose.
We fitted out a ship of about one hundred and twenty tons
burden, which carried six guns and fourteen men, besides
the master, his boy, and myself. In this vessel I set sail.
We had very good weather for about twelve days; but
soon after we had crossed the line, a violent hurricane
drove us quite out of our reckoning, and for many days to-
gether not any in the ship expected to save their lives. In
this distress one of our men early in the morning cried out,
' Land!' and we had no sooner run out of the cabin, in
the hope of seeing where we were, but the ship struck
upon a shoal. It is not easy to conceive our consternation;
for as the rage of the sea was great, we supposed that the
ship would, in a few minutes, break to pieces. We had a
boat on boar i, which the mate took hold of, and with the
help of the rest of the men, flung her over the ship's side,
and getting all into her, committed ourselves to God's
mercy. We steered towards land, but after we had rowed,
or rather been driven, about a league and a half, a wave,
mountain-high, came rolling astern of us with such fury,
that it overset the boat at once, and separated us one from
another. This wave carried me a vast way towards the
shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon
the land almost dry, but half dead. I stood still a few mo-
mets to recover breath, and then took to my heels, and with
all the strength I had left me, ran towards the shore. I got
to the main land, clambered up the cliffs on the shore, and
sat me down upon the grass. Having rested myself, I
walked along the shore in search of fresh water: having
found some, and quenched my thirst, I put some tobacco in
my mouth, to prevent hunger, and having climbed a tree,
rested myself till mornina. I then found the sea calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out that I could come within a quar
ter of a mile of the ship. The weather being extremely
hot, I pulled ofl' my clothes, and took to the water: when
I came to the ship, I observed a small piece of rcpe hang-

ing down, I got hold of it, and got into the forecastle. To
my great joy I saw that all the ship's provisions were dry,
and being well disposed to eat, I went into the bread-room,
and slipped on a waistcoat, filled my pockets with biscuit,
and eat as I went about other things: I also found some
rum in great cabin, of which I took a dram.

As I found several spare yards, I let them down with
ropes by the ship's sides, and going down to them, tied them
together and made a raft, placing several pieces of plank
upon them crossways, and laid upon it all the pieces of
board that came to hand. I next emptied three of the
seamen'SIchests; then lowered them down upon the raft
and filled them with bread, some dried goat's flesh, and
three Dutch cheeses. I found several cases of bottles, in
which were some cordial waters, and about five or six gal-
bns of arrack; these I stowed by themselves, there being
no room for them in the chests. I also let down the car-
penter's chest, which was worth more to me than a ship.
load of gold. I next found two good fowlingpieces, and
two pistols, with some powderhorns, two barrels of powder,
and two old rusty swords,-all of which I placed on the
raft, and with this invaluable cargo, resolved to put to sea.

'0
'"wk'

  

\ ' - l .. r \ x>>\ we"; *7 , 5-;
My raft went very well, and with it I entered a creek,
where I thrust it on a flat piece of ground, over which the.
tide flowed, and there fastened it by sticking a broken oar
into the ground. Thus I stayed till the water ebbed, when
I placed my cargo safe on land. At night I barricadoed
myself round with the chests and boards I had brought on
shore. The next day I resolved to make a second voyage.
My raft being too unwieldy, I swam to the ship, and made
'8n0ther, on which I placed two or three bags of nails and
spikes, some tools and firearms, barrels of musket-bullets,
2
a large bag of small shot, and all the men's clothes I could
find, a square fore top sail, a hammock, and some bedding,
all which I brought safe to land. I now made a little hut
with the sails, and some poles, and into it I brought every
thing I knew would spoil either with the sun or rain; I
piled all the empty chests and casks in a circle round the
hut to fortify it; I blocked up the door with boards; and
spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my tWo
pistols just at my head, and my gun by me, I went to bed
and slept very quietly all night.

Every day at low water, I went on board, and brought
away something. I had been thirteen days on shore, and
had been eleven'times on board the ship. Indeed had the
weather continued, I believe I should have brought away
the whole ship, piece by piece; but preparing the twelfth
time to go on board, I found the wind began to rise; how-
ever, at low water I went. Rummaging the cabin, I dis-
covered a locker with draws in it, in one of which I found
two or three razors, and a pair of large scissors, with ten
or a dozen good knives and forks, and in another about
thirty-six pounds worth of gold and silver coin. At the sight
of this money I smiled to myself, and said aloud, ' 0 drug!
what art thou good for? one of these knives is worth all
this heap; I have no manner of use for thee; even remain
where thou art, and go to the bottom.' However, upon
second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping it all in a
piece of canvass, began to think of making another raft,
but while I was preparing it, the wind began to rise, and
to blow off shore; I then found it was time to be gone, lest
I should not be able to reach the shore: accordingly, I let
myself down into the water, and swam to land.

It blew very hard all night; and in the morning when I
looked out, no more ship was to be seen. I now went in
search of a place where I might fix my dwelling, endeavor-nosmsox cnuson. 15

ing to choose one where I might have the advantage of a
healthy situation, fresh water and security. I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, which was there as steep
as the side of a house, so that nothing could come down to
me from the top. On the one side of this rock was a hol-
low place like the entrance of a cave, before which I resolv-
ed to fix my tent. This plain was not above one hundred
yards broad, and twice as long, descending to the sea. Be-
fore I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the hol-
low place, which extended twenty yards, and in this half
circle pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into
the ground like piles, sharpened on the top: then I took
the pieces of cable I had cut in the ship, and laid them in
rows one upon another up to the top; and this fence was
so strong, that neither man nor beast could enter it. The

entrance I made by a short ladder to go over the top, which
when I was in I lifted after me. Into this fence I by de-
grees carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, and made me a large tent to secure myself and
them from the weather. When I had done this, I began to
work my way into the rock, laying all the earth and stones
I dug out within my fence, in this manner of a terrace:
and thus I had a cave just behind my hut. But before the
above works were completed, a sudden storm of thunder
and lightning filled me with the greatest terror; for my
powder suddenly darted into my mind, and my heart sunk
within me at the thought, that at one blast it might be
destroyed--on which not only my defence, but the provi-
ding of my food entirely depended. N o sooner was the
storm over, than I laid aside every other work to make
boxes and bags, in order to separate my powder. I put

them into the holes up and down the rocks, in such a man-
ner, that one parcel could not fire another.

While all this was doing, I walked out at least once
every day with my gun, to see if I could kill any thing fit
for food, and to acquaint myself, with what the island pro-
duced. The first time I went out I had the pleasure to find
that there were goats in the island; but they were so shy,
that it was the most difficult thing in the world to come up
with them ; but observing that they did not easily see objects
above them, I killed them by climbing the rocks, and shoot-
ing at those in the valley. I found in the woods a sort of
wild piegon, which built in holes of the rocks; and taking
some young ones I endeavored to bring them up tame, but

 

\

when they grew old they flew away: however, I frequently

found their nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat. \

After I had been about ten or twelve days on shore, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning 0.
time, and should not be able to distinguish the Sundays
fiom the working days. To prevent tnis, I set up a large
square post on the shore where I first landed, and cut upon
it with a knife, ' I came on shore here, the 30th of Septem-
ber, 1652.' Upon the sides I cut every day a notch, and
every seventh was as long again as the rest, and every first
day of the month as long again as that long one, and thus I
kept my weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning.

I got from the ship some pens, ink, and paper, some ma.
thematical instruments, and three good bibles, with several
other books, which I carefully secured. I also brought to
shore with me two cats, and a dog swam on shore, which
was a trusty servant to me many years; nay, he was so
good a companiog that I was at a loss for nothing that he
could fetch me; and he only wanted power of speech to be-
come a most agreeable friend.

When my habitation was finished, I found it far too small
to contain my movables : I had hardly reom to turn myself;

so I set about enlarging my cave, and worked sideways into

the rock, farther thanimy outside pale, and hewing a way
through, made a back door to my storehouse. I then made

me a table and chair, which were great conveniences ; shelv.
ed one side of my cave, and knocked up pieces of wood in
the rock, to hang my things on. When my cave was set to
rights, it looked like a general magazine for all necessary
things.

What a different situation was I now in, from that I was
in when I first landed,--when I was afraid ofperishing with
hunger, or of being devoured with wild beasts. I frequent-
ly killed goats for my subsistence, the fat of which supplied
my lamp, which was a dish made of clay, baked in the sun;
and for a wick, I made use of oakum. In my rummaging
among the things, I found a little bag with some husks of
corn in it, and wanting it, I shook it out by the side of my

2.8 nonmsox CRUSOE.

fortification. This was just before some heavy rain; and
about a month afterwards, I saw some green stalks shooting
out of the ground; but how great was my astonishment,
when some time after, I saw about ten or twelve ears of
barley! It was some time before Irecollected the bag with
the husks; and I thought they could have been pro-
duced by nothing less than a miracle. With this barley
there came up also a few stalks of rice, and these were
worth more to me than fifty times their weight in gold; and
I carefully preserved them for seed.

When I had been about a year in the islands, I was taken
extremely ill, which frightened me terribly, imagining I
should die for want of proper help. This fit of illness
proved a violent ague, which made me so weak that I could
hardly carry my gun : and when the fit was on me I almost
perished with thirst. One night, as I was ruminating on

my sad condition, expecting the return of my fit, it occured
to my thoughts, that the Brazilians took no physic but to-
bacco; and I went, directed by heaven, no doubt, to search
for some in the chest; and there Ifound a bible! I brought
both that and the tobacco to my table; I steeped some of
the last in rum; sOme I burnt in a pan of coals, holding my
head over the fume; and some I chewed. During the in-
terval of this operation, I opened my book, and the first
words on which I cast my eyes, were--"Call upon me in
the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee.' The words

struck me; but I could read no more, for the tobacco made
me excessively sleepy. I therefore went to bed, and falling

into a sound sleep, I believe I slept two days; and awoke
perfectly recovered.

I now took a survey of the island; and at about two miles
distance from my habitation, found some fine savannas, and
a little further a variety of fruit, melons upon the ground,
and vines covered with clusters of grapes. I proceeded with
my discoveries, and came to an opening that seemed to de-
scend to the west, where every thing was in such constant
verdure, that it looked like a beautiful garden. I carried
some grapes and a few limes back with me; but the grapes
were spoiled before I got home. I went the next day, and
gathered a large quantity of grapes, and hung them upon the

branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the
sun; but as for the limes and melons, I carried as manyas

I could well stand under. I was so enamored with this
place, that I built myself a bower, fenced with a double
hedge; and this country house, as I called it, cost me two
months' labor; but I hardly began to enjoy my habitation,
when the rains came on, and I was obliged to retreat to my
old one, taking with me my grapes, which were now be-
come fine raisins of the sun.

I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats; but
about this time she came home, and increased my family
with three kittens, she having bred, as I supposed, by a wild
cat, of which there were some in the woods, and they soon
multiplied so fast that I was obliged to drive them from me.

The rainy and dry seasons now appeared quite regular to
me. I dug a piece of ground as well as I could, with a
wooden spade of my own making, and began to saw my own
grain; but as I was doing it, it occured to my thoughts that
I would not sow all, for fear it should not grow, so I re-
served about a handful of each sort; and well it was I did
so, for it did not come up till many months afterwards.
When I saw it did not grow, I sought for moister ground,
and dug up a piece nearer my bower, which answered to my
wishes; and my crop amounted to about half a peck of each
kind: by this means I was made master of my business;
knew when to sow, and that I might expect two seed-times
and two harvests every year; for the corn I set first came
up after the next wet season.
When the rains were over, I made a visit to my bower.
where I found the stakes I set for my defence were shot up
into trees, which I pruned, and made as much alike as pos-
sible; and they'became a complete shade. This was my
work in the dry season; and to employ myselfwhen I could
not go abroad, I made baskets, having, when a child, taken
much delight to see a basket-maker.

In one of the dry seasons, I took another ramble, armed
with my gun and hatchet, and guarded by my faithful dog.
When I had passed the valley in which stood my bower, I
came within view of the sea, and it being a clear day, I
plainly discovered land; but whether island or continent, I
could not tell; I guessed it could not be lest than twenty
leagues off. I imagined it was some savage coast, and such
indeed it proved. In this journey I caught a parrot, having
knocked it down with a stick, brought it home with me, and
taught it to speak. 1 found in the lower grounds, hares but
as they were not like what I had seen, I was afraid to eat
them; and I had no need to make experiments, as I had

goats, pigeons, and turtle, which, added to my grapes,
Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a better table.

Here was also an infinite number of fowls, but I was too
sparing of my powder to shoot them. I travelled about
twelve miles eastward along the shore, and then setting up
a great post for a mark, returned homeward, designing that
my next tour should be the contrary way, till I came to this
post. I took a different way home from that I went; but
unfortunately lost myself, and wandered about very uncom-
fortably; (ill at last I was obliged to find out the seaside,
to seek for my post, being tired to death with the heat of the
weather and the weight of my arms. I now rested myself
a week, employed in the weighty affair of making a cage for
my parrot, which soon became one of my favorites.

My corn was now coming up, and the goats and hares
having tasted the sweetness of the blade, lay at it night and
day, as soon as it sprang out of the ground, so that it could
get no time to shoot into a stalk. To defend it, I surround-
edit with a hedge, and, in the meanwhile, shooting some

of the creatures by day, I set my dog to watch it by night,
which he did so faithfully, that the enemies forsook the

place, and the corn grew and began to ripen apace. When
the corn was in ear, I was nearly as much troubled by
birds; but having killed three, I used them as we do mur-
derers in England,--hanged them in chains, to serve as a
terror to the rest. Not a fowl afterwards came near my
corn, indeed, near the place, as long as my scarecrows hung
there. When the corn was ripe, I made me a sithe with a
sword, and cut off none but the ears, which I rubbed out
with my hands. At the end of my harvest, I guessed I had
a bushel of rice and two bushels and a half of barley. I
kept all this for seed, and bore the want of bread with pa-
tience, as I had now a tolerable prospect of having as much

as I wanted.
This article of bread was a great difliculty : I had neither

plough nor harrow. For the first I made my shovel do;

and to supply the place of a barrow, I went over it myself,
dragging after me the heavy boughs of a tree : and when

I came to make bread, I had innumerable wants; I wanted
a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and malt to make
it into bread, and an oven to bake it. However I had six
months to contrive all these things in. In the meantimeI
enlarged my arable land. I made me some misshapen pots
of clay, that all broke in the sun except two, which I cased
in wicker-work; but I succeeded better in little pans, flat
dishes, and pitchers, which the sun baked surprisingly hard;
but they would not bear the fire so as to boil any liquid, and
I wanted one to boil my meat. One day, afterI had dress-
ed my dinner, I went to put out my fire, and found a piece
of one of my earthen vessels burnt as hard as a stone, and
as red as a tile; this taught me to burn my pipkins; and I
soon wanted for no sort of earthen vessels. When I found
that I had a pot that would bear the fire, I set it on with a
piece of kid, in order to make me some broth, which an-
swered tolerably well. I made me a wooden mortar and
pestle, and also a sieve out of some of the seamen's neck-
cloths, and at length made a sort of oven of a broad shallow
earthen vessel, and a tiled hearth. When I baked, I drew
the live embers forwards upon the hearth, till it was very
hot; then sweeping them away, I set down my loaves,
whelming the earthen pot over them, which baked my barley
bread as well as the best oven in the world. My thoughts
often ran upon the land I had seen: and I began to make
myself a canoe. Ifelled a great cedar, but when the im-
possibility of launching this heavy thing came into my mind,
I gave myself this foolish answer, ' Let me but once make
it, and I'll warrant I'll get it along when it is done.' But
all my devices to get it into the water failed me, and there-
fore I gave it over, determining to enjoy what I had, with-
out repining for what I could not get. My clothes now be-
gan to decay; so I made myself two waistcoats out of some
watch coats, which lasted me a great while. I made a cap
out of a goat's skin, with the hair side outwards, to throw
off the rain, and also another waistcoat of the same skin;
but I must acknowledge that they were wretchedly done.
I made me too an umbrella, which I could shut up, and take
abroad with me; and this secured me both from the heat
and the rain.

I now built me a small boat, intending to go round my
little kingdom, but in which I had nearly lost my life : almost
dead with fatigue, I at length arrivied at my little castle.
I got over the fence, and laid me down to sleep in the shade;
but judge my surprise, when I waked, at a voice calling me
by the name several times, ' Robin Crusoe, poor Robin
Crusoe, where are you 2 where have you been?' I was so
dead asleep at'first, that I thought Idreamt somebody spoke
to me : but as the voice continued to repeat ' Robin Crusoe,'
I waked'dreadfully frightened; but my eyes were no sonner
open, than I saw poll sitting on the hedge, and immediately
knew that it was he that spoke to me. I immediately called

, '?"-;-V. i

 
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

   

       
    
 

. .1. a; 1. Arm-1.33 :1
We - 1'3," <<41%;
' Man J elm-s". 2
-'\s-.r' "'5'" '5"?'32'2'
- 4' SSk&._~---
'2? egg>>.

{Inf-'-

' 19. - --":
3'33.:,.'\SSSS7

 

um - um!!!"
I .. . uwulw' .

   

1/)11/1://}4,,,,,,'a
.mli'mmm'

MM

{la/II
{I

III//
.1!!!

'xn-Inh .

////////_///I.

' MIMI/III"

and sat on my thumb, crying. ' Poor Robin Crusoe,' as if
he had been overjoyed to see me again. I now began to
perceive my powder considerably abated; dreading what
should become of me when I could kill no more goats, (for
my kid did not breed,) I set snares to catch some alive; but
my snares were broken, and my bait devoured. At length
I resolved to try pitfalls- in one of which I found three
kids--a male and two females; these kids I brought home.
It was some time before they would feed; but, however,
they grew tame, and I found that I might supply myselfwith
goats flesh, when I had no powder and shot left. I inclo-
sed a piece of ground to keep my goats, proposing, as my
flock increased to add more ground to my inclosurc; and I
had soon, not only goat's flesh to feed upon, but milk too;
for now I set up a dairy, and made myself butter and cheese.
It would have made a stoic smile, to see me and my family
sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, all alone like
a king, attended with my servants. Poll, my favorite, was
the only person permitted to talk to me. My dog, grown
very old, sat always at my right hand, and my two cats, one
on one side of the table, and the other on the other, expect-
ing now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special
favor. I had at length a great mind to go to the point of
the island, to see how the shore lay, and resolved to travel
here by land. And now, reader, I will give thee a short
sketch of the figure I made. I had agreat, high, shapeless
cap, made of a goat's skin, a jacket, with the skirts coming
down, to the middle of my thighs; and a pair of open knee'd-
breeches of the same, with the goat's hair hanging to the
middle of my leg. Stockings and shoes I had none; but I
had made a pair of somethings, I scarcely know what to call
them, to flap over my legs like splatterdashers, but of a
most barbarous shape; and so indeed were all the rest of
my clothes. I had a broad belt of goat-skin dried; and I

hung on one side a saw, and on the other a hatchet; I had
another belt, not so broad, fastened over my shoulder

Under my arm hung two pouches, for my shot and powder.
On my back I carried a basket; on my shoulder a gun, and

over my head, a great clumsy umbrella. My beard was cut
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had trim-
med into a pair of large Mahomedan whiskers. But as for
my figure, I had so few to observe me, that it was of no
manner of consequence.

In this figure I went my new journey, and was out five or
six days. I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was plainly to be seen
on the sand. I listened, I could hear nothing, I went upon

a rising ground, to look farther, but I could see only that
one impression. There was plainly a foot, toes, heel, and
every part very distinct. I hurried home to my fortifications,
looking behind me every two or three steps, and fancying
every tree, bush, and stump to be a man. I had no sleep
that night, but my terror gradually wore off; however I
strengthened my fortification, and planted a number of
stakes on the outside of my wall, which growing, becamea
thick grove. After having secured my habitation in the
strongest manner possible, I sought for a place of security
for my live goats; and at length found a piece of ground,.
rendered almost inaccessible by nature, so that it cost me
but little pains to make it so; and then I removed the she-
goats and two he-goats into it. After I had thus secured
one part of my live stock, I went about the whole island,
and rambled more to the western point than I had ever
done before. I was presently convinced, that the seeing
the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing
in the island as I had imagined, for on my approaching the
shore I was perfectly confounded, nor is it possible to ex-

press the horror I felt, at seeing the shore spread with
skulls, hands, feet and other bones of human bodies : and

particularly a place, where, as I supposed, there had been
a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth for the savage
wretches to sit down to their inhuman feasts. I turned

away my face from the horrid spectacle, and left the place
as soon as possible.

Some time after, inthe midst of a very stormy night I was
3
startled at the firing of a gun: I hastened up to the top 01
my hill: and heard another. I imagined that these were
signals of a ship in distress; and such it proved, as I dis-
covered the next day. I cannot explain the emotion I felt
at the sight of this wreck, ' O that there had been but one
saved!' cried I, ' that I might have had one companion, one
fellow creature to have spoken to, and have comforted him
in his affliction.' Under the power of this impression, no.
thing would serve me, but I must go in my boat to the
wreck, which lay at a little distance. I furnished myseli
with a stock of provisions, for fear of being driven out to
sea; and having begun my voyage, I in two hours time
reached the ship, which was Spanish built. She stuck fast
jammed in between two rocks, and the stern and the quar-
ter were beaten to pieces by the sea. On coming near it,
a dog yelped and cried; but there was no other living crea-

ture on board; and all the goods were spoiled by the water.
I, however, took two of the seaman's chests into my boat,
without kowing what was in them.

When I had got my treasure home, and began to unload,
I found several bottles filled with cordial waters, and some
neckcloths and shirts, which were very useful tome ; about
1,100 pieces of eight, and about a pound weight of solid
gold,--but of what use was this to me ? I would have given
it all for three or four pair of shoes and stockings. After '
this acquisition, I lived in my old manner, though terrified
with fears of the savages. One morning very early, I saw
five canoes of them on shore. I clambered up the hill, and
by the help of my perspective, discovered no less than thir-
ty dancing round a fire. I soon after saw two miserable
creatures dragged out of the boats; one of whom was im-
mediately knocked down, but the other, starting from them,
ran with incredible swiftness along the sands towards me.
I confess I was horribly frightened, when I saw him come
my way, imagining that he would be pursued by the whole
body; however, I kept my station, and quite lost my ap-
prehensions when I found but three followed him. He
greatly outran them, and was in a fair way of escaping them
all, when coming to a creek, he plunged into it, landed, and
ran on as swift as before. Of the three that followed, but
two entered the water, the other returning back. I hastily
fetched my guns from the foot of the ladder; and having a
short cut down the hill, I clapped myself in the way be-
tween the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him
that fled, and beckoning my hand for him to stop; then
rushing at once upon the foremost, knocked him down with
the stock of my piece. The other stopped, as if frightened,
but when I advanced towards him, I perceived he was fit-
ting his bow to shoot me; upon which I shot him dead di-
rectly. The poor savage who had fled was so terrified at
the noise of my piece, though he saw his enemy fallen, that
he stood stock still, but seemed rather inclined to fly than
to come towards me. However, when I gave him signs of
encouragement, he came nearer, kneeling down every ten
or twelve steps; on his coming close again, he laid his head
upon the ground, and placed my foot upon it. But there
was more work to do; the man I had knocked down came
to himself, and my savage began to be afraid. I then pre-
sented the piece to the man, when the poor fellow, whose
life I had saved, made a motion for my sword, which I gave

him; and he struck off his enemy's head at one blow, and
in a quarter of an hour buried both the bodies in the sand.

I then took him away to a cave at the further part of the
island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which he wanted much; and
having refreshed him, I made signs for him to lie down upon
some rice-straw, which the poor creature did, and soon
went to sleep.
He was a well-made, handsome fellow, of about twenty-six
years of age, of an olive-colored complexion, with long black
hair. He had a small nose, that was not flat; "and fine
teeth, as white as ivory. Aft

v._--_ '-.

  

 

    
  

mnm/
fl/'//////////I////////' "a! '2
r/ / .' ., ..

__-----

._...

he awaked again, and came running to me in the enclosure,
Just by where I had been milking my goats; then falling
down again, he laid his head flat upon the ground, and set
my foot upon it, as before; and after this, made all possible
signs of thankfulness, subjection, and submission. I began
to speak to him, and to teach him to speak to me; and first,
I made him know that his name shonld be Friday, which
was the day on which I saved his life. I taught him to say
Master, and let him know that was to be my name. The
'3 next day I gave him clothes, at which he seemed pleased.
As we went by the place where he had buried the twc men,
he pointed exactly to the spot, making signs that he would
dig them up again, and eat them : at which I appeared very
angry, and beckoned with my hands to him to come away,
which he did immediately. Having now more courage, and
consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday with me,
giving him the sword in his hand, with the bows and ar-
rows at his back, which I found he could use very dexter-
ously. I also gave him a gun to carry; and taking two for
myself, away we marched to the place where his enemies
had been : when I came there, my blood ran cold in my

veins : the place was covered with human bones, and the
ground dyed with blood; great pieces of flesh were left here

and there, half eaten, mangled, and scorched, I saw three
sculls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and
feet: and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that
they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three
of them were eaten up, and be, pointing to himself, was the
fourth; and that they had been conquered, and taken pris-
oners in war. I caused Friday to collect the remains of this
horrid carnage; then to light a fire, and burn them to ashes.
When this was done, we returned to our castle. The next
day I made a little tent outside my fortification, and at night
took in my ladder, that he might not be able to get at me
while I slept. But there was no need of this precaution ;
for never man had a more faithful servant, he had the same
affection for me as a child has for his father; and I dare say,
he would have sacrificed his life to save mine. I was great-
ly delighted with him, and made it my business to teach him V;
every thing proper to render him useful, especially to speak,
and understand me when I spoke; and he was so merry, so '
diligent, and so pleased when he could understand me, or
make me understand him, that he was a very agreeable com-
pany.

After I had been two or three days returned to my castle,
3o
I was desirous to bring him of from the relish of human
flesh; so I took him out with me one morning to the woods,
in order to take a kid from my herd; but as I was going, I
saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her; when making signs for Friday not to stir, I
shot one of the kids. Poor Friday, who had at a distance
seen me kill the savage his enemy, but did not see how it
was done, trembled, and looked so amazed, that I thought
he would have sunk down: he did not see the kid I had
shot, but ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not
wounded, and thought I was resolved to kill him; for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my knees,
seemed to entreat me not to kill him. But taking him by

the hand, I laughed at him, and pointed to the kid I had

killed, and beckoned him to run and fetch it, which he did.
The next day I set him to beat out some corn, and sift it, and

in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me,
as well as I could do it myself. In short, this was the pleas
antest year I had led in the island; for as my man began
to talk pretty well, I had some use for my tongue again.
From this time I had a mind to venture over to Friday's
Island, and see if I could possibly join those bearded men,
whom he had spoken of to me, not doubting but we might find
some means of escaping from thence.

I was now entering into the 27th year of my captivity, and
intended soon to set sail; when one morning I bid Friday go
to the seashore to see if he could find a turtle; but he had not
long been gone, when he came running back, and cried, ' 0
master ! O sorrow! 0 bad !'--' What's the matter Friday 1"
said I. ' O yonder there,' said he, ' one, two, three ! canoe 2
one, two, three !'--' Well, Friday,' said I, ' do not be fright-
ened.' I then took my perspective glass, and went up the
side of the hill, when I saw twenty-one savages, three pris

oners, and three canoes. I bid him see what they were
doing: he did so, and told me that they-.were all about the
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners; and thata
bearded man lay bound upon the sand, whom he said they
would kill next. I had not a moment to lose, for two had
stooped down to untie the Christian, in order to murder him,
"N ow,' said I, ' Friday, do as you see me do.' I laid the

   
  
  
 
  

)7)?"

. 1/51]!

fill."
////////
w

W

. '-""".-'"'."m.m;, '
Iliillz/I/flW/ylll

_./

nanny/1;)>>;

uuuuum 5 Au

   

muskets down, and took one ; and then we both fired. Three
were killed, and five wounded. The rest jumped up imme-

diately on their feet; but knew not where to run. I resoL
ved to pursue them, and ran to the canoe, calling Friday
to follow me ; but I was no sooner in the canoe, than I found
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot.
_ I immediately cut the twisted flags; and seeing that he had
been bound so tight that he was almost dead, I gave him a
dram, and ordered Friday to tell him of his deliverance; but
when the poor fellow looked in his face, and heard him

speak, it would have moved any one to tears to have seen
how he kissed, embraced, hugged him, danced, sung, and
then cried again. It was sometime before I could make him
tell me what was the matter; but when he came to himself,
he said, he was his own dear father. He then sat down by
him, held the old man's head close to his bosom, and chafed
his arms and ankles, which were stiff with binding. The
Spaniard having expressed to me the utmost gratitude for his
deliverance, gave me an account of the shipwreck, and the
situation of his companions; and it was resolved that Fri-
day's father and the Spaniard should go in the boat to fetch
them over. .

About eight days after they were gone, Friday wakened
me one morning, by crying out, ' Master, they are come !' I
dressed, and hastened to the top of the hill, and plainly dis-
covered an English ship lying at anchor. They ran the boat
ashore on the beach, and eleven men landed, three of them
unarmed, who, by their gestures seemed to be prisoners : and
one of them I could perceive using the most passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, aflliction, and despair, while the two
others, though their grief seemed less extravagant, appeared
pleading for mercy. At this instant I saw a villain lift up
his arm to kill one of the prisoners; but he did not strike
him. The men having left the prisoners and gone mto the
woods, I went up to them with my man Friday, and said to
them in Spanish, ' who are you, gentleman ?' They started
at the noise ; but prepared to fly. I then said to them in
English, ' Gentlemen, perhaps, you have a friend near you
whom you little expect. Tell me your case.'--' I was com-
mander of that ship,' replied one of the prisoners ; ' my men
have mutinied against me, and if they do not murder me,
they intend to leave me and these two gentlemen asnore in

this desolate place; they are but in that thicket, and I trem-
bled for fear they have seen you. Having concerted matters

with the captain, and armed ourselves, we went to the sail-
ors, and the captain reserving his own piece, the two men
shot one of the villains dead, and wounded another. He
who was wounded cried out for help, and I coming up, gave
orders for sparing their lives, on condition of their being
bound hands and feet while they stayed in the island.

 

A little time after, another boat came. We formed an
ambuscade, but one of the principal ringleaders in the mu-
tiny, with two of the crew coming towards us, the captain
was so eager, that he let fly, killed two on the spot, and the
third ran 'for it. I immediately advanced with my wholere '

34 ROBINSON cnvson.

army, upon which Will Atkins, one of the rmgleaders, cal-
led out, ' For God's sake, captain, Spare my life.' The cap-
tain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and
trust to the governor's mercy, upon which they all submit-
ted, and with their assistance we seized the ship.

'-:*\ d: '1 1""! ' p
'X\ .
5",: ' v}

'
.C uh; ;., _A

~ v--- nu>>

, "has;

sags" " /

>2.
.:;.SS;

'3
.3?-
,ss
(

 

When I saw my deliverance thus put into my hands, I was
ready to sink with surprise; I was not able to answer one
word, but a flood of tears brought me to myself, and a little
while after I recovered my speech. I then in my turn em-
braced the captain as my deliverer, and we rejoiced togeth-
er. Having the prisoners brought before me, I asked them
what they had to say in their own defence, telling them I
had power to execute them there. They pleaded the cap-
tain's promise of mercy. I then told them that I intended to
go passenger in the ship, with all my men; but that they,
if they went, could only go as prisoners; observing, how-
ever, that they might, if they chose it, stay in the island.
This they gladly accepted, and I prepared to go on board
the next day. The captain returning to the ship, got every
thing ready for my reception.

When he was gone, I talked to the men, told them my
story, and how I managed all my household business; left
a letter for the fifteen Spaniards, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. The next day I
went on board the ship, taking Friday with me; thus I left
the island, after being on it twenty-eight years, and arrived
safely in England. Sometime after, I went to Lisbon, to
look after my effects in the Brazils, and found the gener-
ous captain, who had been so much my friend, still alive--
and he put me in the way of recovering the produce of my
plantations. And a few months after there arrived ships in
the Tagus, with effects for my use, to the amount of fifty
thousand pounds, besides one thousand a year which I ex-
pected to receive annually from my plantation. '

THE END.He then commanded his General who was an old experienced leader
and a great patron of mine, to lead up the troops in close order and march
them under me ; the foot by twenty-four abreast, and the horse by sit
teen, with drums beating, colors flying, and pike: advanced. The body
confined of three thousand foot and a thousand horse.
' INTO THE KINGDOM OF

EEEEEE'E'i'EZ

IECORDING Hll

STRANGE ADVENTURE IN THAT REMOTE
COUNTRY.

Embellished with neat Engraving: on Wood.

NEW-YORK :

PUBLISHED BY J. SLATER,
42 DIVISION-STREET.
 

A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT.

CHAPTER I.

Gulliver gives some account of himself and his first inducements to travel.
He is shipwrecked, and swims for for his life; gets safe on shore in the
country of Lilliput; ismade a prisoner, and carried up the country.

MY father had a small estate'in Nottinghamshire; I was
the third of five sons. After completing my education, -
I was bound apprentice to Mr. James Bates, an eminent
surgeon in London, with whom I continued four years; and.
my father now and then sending me small sums of money, I
laid them out in learning navigation, and the mathematics,
useful to those who intend to travel, as I always believed it
would be, some time or other, my fortune to do.

Shortly after the expiry of my indentures, I was recommend-
ed to be surgeon to the Swallow, Captain Abraham Panuell,
commander; with whom I continued three years and a half,
making a voyage or two into the Levant, and some other
parts.

I afterwards accepted an advantageous offer from Captain
William Pritchard, master of the Antelope, who was making
a voyage to the South Sea. We set sail from Bristol, May 4,
1699, and our voyage at first was very prosperous ; but in our
passage from these seas to the East Indies we were driven
by a violent storm to the noth-west of Van Diemen's Land,
and the ship immediately split. Six of the crew, of whom I

was one, having letdown the boat into the sea, made a shift
1.6 GULLIVEB'S VOYAGE

to get clear of the ship and the rock. We rowed about three
leagues till we were able to work no longer. We therefore '
trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves, and in about
half an hour the boat was overset. What became of my
companions in the boat, or of those who were left in the

vessel, I cannot tell; but I swam as fortune directed me, and
was pushed forward by wind and tide till I got to the shore,
about, as Iconjectured, eight o'clock in the evening. I then
advanced forward near half a mile, but could not discover
any sign of hauses or inhabitants. Being extremely tired,
and finding myself much inclined to sleep, I lay down on the
grass, which was very short and soft, where I slept sounder
than ever I remembered to have done in my life. When I
waked, I attempted to rise, but was not able to stir; for, as
I happened to lie on my back, I found my arms and legs were
fastened on each side to the ground; and my hair was tied
down in the same manner. I likewise felt several slender
cords across my body, from my armpits to my thighs. I
heard a confused noise about me; but, in the posture I lay,

could see nothing except the sky.
In a little time I felt something alive moving on my left

leg, which advanced gradually up to my chin; when, bending
my eyes downward, I perceived it to be a human creature not
six inches high, with a bow and arrow in his hands and a
quiver at his back. In the mean time I felt at least forty
more of the same kind (as I conjectured) following the first.
I was in the utmost astonishment, and roared so loud, that
they all ran back in a fright. However, they soon returned,
and one of them, lifting up his hands and eyes by way of ad-
miration, cried out in a shrill but distinct voice, Hekinah degul I
the others repeating the same words several times. I lay all
this while in great uneasiness; at length, struggling to get
loose. I had the fortune to break some of the strings, and'ro museum. 7

wrench out the pegs that fastened my left arm to the ground.
I was just able to turn my head about two inches. But the
creatures ran off a second time before I could seize them:
whereupon there was a great shout in a very shrill accent,
and after it ceased one of them cried aloud, Tolgo phonac !
when in an instant I felt above a hundred arrows discharged
on my left hand, which pricked me like so many needles.
When this shower of arrows was over, I fell aogroaning with
pain, and then striving again to get loose, they discharged
another volley larger than the first, and some of them attempt-
ed with spears to stick me in the sides; but by good luck I
had on me a buff jerkin, which they could not pierce. I
thought it best to lie still, and my design was to continue so
till night, when, my left hand being already loose, I could
easily free myself ;. and as for the inhabitants, I had reason
to believe I might be a match for the greatest army they
could bring against me. But when the people observed I was
quiet, they discharged no more arrows; but, by the noise I
heard, I knew their numbers increased; and about four yards

from me, over against my right ear, I heard a knocking for
above an hour, like that of pe0plc at work; when turning

my head that way, as well as the pegs and strings would per-
mit me, I saw a stage erected about a foot and a half from
the ground, capable of holding four of the inhabitants, with
two or three ladders to mount it; from whence one of them,
who seemed to be a person of quality, made me a long speech,
whereof I understood not one syllable. Immediately about
filly of the inhabitants came and cut the strings that fastened
the left side of my head, which allowed me to turn to the
"ight, and observe the person and gesture of him that was to
speak. He appeared to be taller than any of the other three
who attended him, whereof one was a page that held up his
train, and seemed to be somewhat longer than my middle-
finger; the other two stood one on each side to support him.
I answered in a few words, Jut in the most submissive mm-
ner, lifting up my left hand and both my eyes to the sun, as

 

 

 

 

$3" ---

_____ .wfi--w
___.______.___
_...-.. _ . .

' '___.______..'_"--------

 

  

',,_ -, -.

almost tarnished wrth
hunger, I put my finger frequently to my mouth, to signify
thatl wanted food. The hurgo (for so they call a great lord,
as I afterwards learnt) understood me. He descended from
the stage, and commanded that several ladders should be ap-
plied to my sides, on which above a hundred of the inhabit-
ants mounted, and walked towards my mouth, laden with
baskets full of meat.

There were shoulders, legs, and loins, shaped like those of
mutton, and very well dressed, but smaller than the wings of
a lark. I ate them by two or three at a mouthful, and took
three loaves at a time, about the bigness of musket-bullets.
They supplied me as fast as they could, showing the greatest
wonder at my bulk and appetite. I then made another sign,
that I wanted drink. Being a most ingenious people, they
slung up with great dexterity one of their largest hogsheads,so narrow. 9

then rolled it towards my hand, and beat out the top : I drank
it off at a draught for it did not hold half a pint; they brought
me a second hogshead, which I drank in the same manner,
and made signs for more ; but they had none to give me.
When I had performed these wonders, they shouted for joy,

repeating several times as they did at first, Hekinah degul!
I'hey made me a sign that I should throw down the two hogs-
heads, but first warning the people below to stand out of the
way; and when they saw the vessels in the _air, there was
another shout of Hekinah degul !

Alter some time there appeared before me a person of
high rank from his imperial majesty. His excellency advan-
ced forwards up to my face, with about a dozen of his retinue,
and spoke about ten minutes without any signs of anger, but
with a kind of determined resolution, often pointing forwards,
which, as I afterwards found, was towards the capital city,
about half a mile distant; whither it was agreed by his ma-
Jesty in council that I must be conveyed. I answered in few
words, but to no purpose, and made a sign to signify that I
desired my liberty. It appeared that he understood me well
enough, for he shook his head by way of disapprobation.
However, he made other signs to let me understand, that I
should have meat and drink enough, and very good treatment.
I once more thought of attempting to break my bonds; but,
when I felt the smart of their arrows upon my face and hands,
and many of the darts still sticking in them, and observing
likewise that the number of my enemies increased, I gave
tokens to let them know that they might do with me what
they pleased. Upon this the hurgo and his train withdrew.
Soon after I felt great numbers of people on my left side, re-
laxing the cords to such a degree that I was able to turn
upon my right. But before this they had daubed my face
and both my hands with a sort of ointment, which, in a few
mmutes, removed all the smart of their arrows.10 GULuvsn's VOYAGE

It seems, that upon the first moment I was discovered,the
emperor had early notice of it, and determined in council,
that I should be tied in the manner I have related (which
was done while I slept) ; that plenty of meat and drink should
be sent me, and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital
city.

These people being excellent mathematicians, five hundred
carpenters and engineers Were immediately set at work to
prepare a great engine for my conveyance. But the principle
difficulty was to raise and place me in this vehicle. But
they at last, by means of pulleys, wheels, hooks, and other
contrivances, succeeded in their purpose. All this I was
told ; for, while the operation was performing, I lay in a
profound sleep, which was caused by the force of some sleepy
potion the emperor's physicians had mingled in the wine I
partook of. Fifteen hundred of the emperor's largest horses,
each about four inches and a half high, were then employed
to draw me towards the metropolis, which, as I said, was
half a mile distant.

About four hours after we began our journey, I was awa-
ked through the curiosity of one of the officers in the guards,
who put the sharpend of his half-pike a good way up into
my left nostril, which tickled my nose like a straw, and made
me sneeze violently, whereupon they stole ofl' unperceived;
' and it was not till three weeks after that I knew the cause
of my waking so suddenly. We made a long march the re-
maining part of the day, and rested at night with five hundred
guards on each side of me, half with torches, and half with
bows and arrows, ready to shoot me if I should offer to stir.
The next morning at sunrise we continued our march, and
arrived within two hundred yards of the city-gates about noon.
The emperor and all his court came out to meet us.

At the place where the carriage stopped there stood an
ancient temple, esteemed to be the largest in the whole king-
dom. In this edifice it was determined Ishould lodge. The
great gate was about four feet high, and almost two feet
wide, through which I could easily creep. On each side
was a small window, not above six inches from the ground .

into that on the left side the king's smith conveyed fourscore
and eleven chains, like those that hung to a lady's watch in

Europe, and almost as large, which were locked to my left
leg with six-and-thirty padlocks. On the other side of the
great highway, at twenty feet distance, there was a turret at
least five feet high. Here the emperor ascended, with many
principals lords of his court, to have an Opportunity of view-
ing me, as I was told, for I could not see them. It was
reckoned that above a hundred thousand inhabitants came out
of the town upon the same errand. When the workmen
found it was imposible for me to break loose, they cut the
remaining strings that bound me. But the noise and asto-
nishment of the people at seeing me rise and walk are not to
be expressed. The chains that held my left leg were about
two yards long, and gave me not only the liberty of walking
backwards and forwards in a semicircle, but, being fixed
within four inches of the gate, allowed me to creep in, and
lie at my full length in the temple.

 

CHAPTER II.

The Emperor of Lilliput, attended by several of the nobility, comes to
see Gulliver in his confinement. The'Emperor's person and habit de-
scribed. Learned men appointed to teach Gulliver their language.
His pockets are searched and his sword and pistols taken from him

WHEN I found myself on my feet, I looked about me, and
must confess I never beheld a more entertaining prospect.
The country around appeared like a continued garden, andl2 Grumman's VOYAGE

the enclosed fields, which were generally forty feet square,
resembled so many beds of flowers. The tallest trees appear-
ed to be seven feet high. I viewed the town on my left
hand, which looked like the painted scene of a city ina

theatre.
The emperor now descended from the tower, and was ad-

vancing on horseback towards me, but had like to have met
with aserious mishap from the terror of his beast, which
plunged and reared when he came within sight of me. This
prince, however, being an excellent horseman, kept his seat
till some of his attendants ran to his assistance. When he
alighted, he surveyed me round with great admiration; but
kept beyond the length of my chain. He ordered me
victuals and drink, which his cooks and butlers pushed for.
ward in a sort of vehicles upon wheels, till I could reach
them. Twenty of them were filled with meat and ten with
liquor; each of the former afl'orded me two or three good
mouthfuls; and I emptied the liquor of ten vessels, which
was contained in earthen vials, into one vehicle, drinking it

off at a draught; and so I did with the rest. The empress,
and young princes of the blood of both sexes, attended by

many ladies, sat at some distance in their chairs; but upon
the accident that happened to the emperor's horse, they alight--
ed, and came near his person. He is taller, by almost the

breadth of my nail, than any of his court. His dress was
very plain and simple, and the fashion of it between the
Asiatic and the European; but he had on his head a light
helmet of gold, adorned with jewels, and a plume on the
crest. His sword was almost three inches long : the hilt
and scabbard were gold enriched with diamonds. His voice
was shrill but clear, and I could distinctly hear it when I
stood up. The ladies and courtiers were all most magnifi-
cently clad. His majesty spoke often to me, and I returned' ro LILLIPU'I'. 13

answers ; but neither of ' us could understand a syllable.
After about two hours the court retired, and I was left with
a strong guard, to prevent the impertineuce of the rabble,
who were very impatient to crowd about me as near.as they
durlt.

Towards night I got with some difliculty into my house,
where I lay on the ground, and continued to do so about a
fortnight; during which time the emperor gave orders to
have a bed prepared for me. Six hundred beds of the com-
mon measure were brought in carriages, and worked up in
my house; a hundred and fifty of their beds, sewn together,
made up the breadth and length ; and these were four double;
which, however, kept me but very indifl'erently from the
hardness of the floor, which was of smooth stone. By the
same computation, they provided me with sheets, blankets,
and coverlets.

As the news of my arrival spread through the kingdom, it
brought prodigious numbers of rich, idle, and curious people
to see me.

In the mean time the emperor held frequently councils, to
debate what course should be taken with me; and I was
afterwards assured, by a person of great quality, that the
court was under many difficulties concerning me. After
several consultations, a commission was issued out, obliging
all the villages round the city to deliver in every morning
six beeves, forty sheep, and other victuals for my sustenance;
together with a proportionable quantity of bread and wine,
and other liquors; for the due payment of which his majesty
gave assignments upon his treasury. An establishment was
also made of six hundred persons to be my domestics, who
had board-wages allowed for their maintainance, and tents
built for them very conveniently on each side of my door.

It was likewise ordered, that three hundred tailors should
214 GULLIvr-za's TRAVELS

make me a suit of clothes, after the fashion of the country;
that six of his majesty's greatest scholars should be employed

to instruct me in their language : and, lastly, that the em-
peror's horses, and those of the nobility and troops of guards,

should be frequently exercised in my sight, to accustom them-
selves to me. All these orders were duly put in execution ;

and in about three weeks I made great progress in learning
their language; during which time the emperor frequently
honoured me with his visits, and was pleased to assist my
masters in teaching me.

His majesty one day said he hoped 6' I would not take it ill,
if he gave orders to certain proper officers to search me; for
probably I might carry about me several weapons, which must
needs be dangerous things, if they answered the bulk of so
prodigious a person." Isaid, " His majesty should be sat-
isfied; for I was ready to strip myself, and turn out my
pockets before him." Two officers were then appointed for
this task. These I took up in my hands, put them first in
my coat~pockets, and then into every other pocket about me
except my two i'obs and another secret pocket, which I haa
no mind should be searched, wherein I had some little ne-
cessaries that were of no consequence to any but myself.
In one of my fobs there was a silver watch, and in the other
a smallquantity of gold in a purse. These gentlemen made
an exact inventory of every thing they saw; which I after-
wards translated into English, and is as follows :

"Imprimis, In the right coat-pocket of the great man-
mountain (for so I interpret the words quinbusflestrin)_ we
found a great piece of coarse cloth, large enough to be a
foot-cloth for your majesty's chief room of state. Next we
saw a huge silver chest, with a cover of the same metal,
which we were not able to lift. We desired it should be

opened, and one of us stepping into it, found himself up to'ro errur. lb

the mid-]eg in a sort of dust, some part whereof flying up to
our faces, set us both a-sneezing for several times together.
In the left there was a sort of engine, from the back of which
were extended twenty long poles, resembling the palisadoes
before your majesty's court; wherewith we conjectured the
man-mountain combs his head. In a large pocket we saw
two hollow pillars of iron, about the length of a man, fastened
to strong pieces of timber larger than the pillars; and upon
one side of the pillars were huge pieces of iron sticking out,
cut into strange figures, which we knew not what to make
of. There were two pockets which we could not enter; these
he called his fobs. Out of the right fob hung a great silver
chain, with a wonderful kind of engine at the bottom. We
directed him to draw out whatever was at the end of that
chain; which appeared to be a globe, half silver and half of
some transparent metal; for on the transparent side, we saw
certain strange figures circularly drawn, and thought we
could touch them, till we found our fingers stopt by that lucid
substance. He put his engine to our ears, which made an
incessant noise, like that of a water-mill. He called it his
oracle, and said, it pointed out the time for every action of
his life. From the left fob he took out a net almost large
enough for a fisherman, but contrived to open and shut like
a purse, and which served him for the same use : we found
therein several massy pieces of yellow metal, which, if they
be real gold, must be of immense value.

" Having thus, in obedience to your majesty's commands,
diligently searched all his pockets, we observed a girdle
about his waist made of the hide of some prodigious animal,
from which, on the left side, hung a sword of the length of
five men ; and on the right a bag or pouch divided into two
cells, each cell capable of holding three of your majesty's
subjects. In one of these cells were several globes, or balls,16 GULLIVER'B vanes:

ofa most ponderous metal, about the bigness of our heads,
and requiring a strong hand to lift them: the other cell con-
tained a heap of certain black grains, but of no great bulk or

weight, for we could hold above fifty of them in the palms of
our hands.

<< This is an exact inventory of what we found about the
body of the man-mountain, who used us with great civility,
and due respect to your majesty's commission.

<< Cleft-in Frelock, M arsi Frelock."

When this inventory was read over to the emperor, he
directed me, although in very gentle terms, to deliver up the

 

 

took out, scabbard and all. In the mean time he ordered
three thousand of his choicest troops (who then attended
him) to surround me at a distance, with their bows andTo 1.1mm. 17

arrows just ready to discharge; but I did not observe it, for
my eyes were wholly fixed upon his majesty. He then
desired me to draw my scimitar, which, although it had got
some rust by the sea-water, was in most parts exceeding
bright. I did so, and immediately all the troops gave ashout
between terror and surprise; for the sun shone clear, and

the reflection dazzled their eyes as I waved the scimitar to
and fro in my hand. His majesty, who is a most magnani--

mous prince, was less daunted than I could expect; he or-
dered me to return it into the Scabbard, and cast it on the

ground as gently as I could, about six feet from the end of
my chain. The next thing he demanded was one of the hol-
low pillars; by which he meant my pocket pistols. I drew
it out, and at his desire, as well as I could, expressed to him
the use of it ; and charging it only with powder, I first
cautioned the emperor not to be afraid, and then I let it off

in the air. The astonishment here were greater than at the
sight of the scimitar. Hundreds fell down as if they had

been struck dead; and even the emperor, although he stood
his ground, could not recover himself for some time. I then
delivered up my pistols, my scimitar, my pouch of powder
and bullets; and last my watch, which the emperor was
very curious to see, and commanded two of his tallest yeo-
men of the guards to bear it on a pole upon their shoulders,
as draymen in England do a barrel of ale. He was amazed
at the continual noise it made, and the motion of the minute-
hand, which he could easily discern; for their sight is much
more acute than ours. I then delivered over to the custody
of his majesty my several effects, with the exception of the
articles contained in the private pocket, which escaped their
search, wherein there were a pair of spectacles, a pocket
perspective, and some other little conveniences, which, being
of no consequence to the emperor, I did no find myself

bound in honour to discover.
2.
CHAPTER III.

Gulliver diverts the Emperor and his nobility of both sexes in a very un-
common manner. The civersions of the Court of Lilliput described.
Gulliver has his liberty granted him upon certain conditions.

My gentleness and good behavior had gained so far on the
emperor and his people, that I began to conceive hopes of
getting my liberty. I took all methods to cultivate this dis-
position. The natives came by degrees to be less apprehen-
sive of ' any danger from me; I would sometimes lie down,
and let five or six of them dance on my hand; and at last the
boys and girls would venture to come and play at hide and
seek in my hair. I had now made a good progress in under-

standing and speaking the language. The emperor had a
mind one day to entertain me with several of the country

shows, wherein they exceeded all nations I have known both
for dexterity and magnificence. I was diverted with none so
much as that of the rope-dancers, who performed upon a
slender white thread, extended about two feet, and twelve
inches from the ground.

There is likewise another diversion, which is only shown
before the emperor and empress, and first minister, upon
particular occasions. The emperor lays on the table three
fine silken threads of six inches long; one is blue, the other
red, and the third green. These threads are proposed as
prizes for those persons whom the emperor has a mind to
distinguish by a peculiar mark of his favor. The ceremony
is performed in his majesty's great chamber of state. The
emperor holds a stick in his hands, while the candidates ad-
vancing, one by one, sometimes leap over the stick, some-
times creep under it, backward and forward, several times,
according as the stick is advanced or depressed. Sometimes
the emperor holds one end of the stick, and his first minister
the other; sometimes the minister has it entirely to himself.
Whoever performs his part with most agility, and holds outto unseat. 19

the longest in leaping and creeping, is rewarded with the?
blue-colored silk; the red is given to the next, and the green
to the third, which they all wear girt twice round about the
middle; and you see few great persons about this court who
are not adorned with one of these girdles.

The horses of the army, and those of the royal stables,
hatfing been daily led before me, were In. longer shy. The
riders would leap them over my hand, as I eld it on the
ground; and one of the emperor's huntsmen, pon a large
courser, took my foot, shoe and all; whichfivas indeed a

prodigious leap. I had the good fortune to divert the empe.
ror one day after a very extraordinary manner. I desired he
would order several sticks of two feet high, and the thick-
ness of an ordinary cane, to be brought me, which being
done, I took nine of these sticks, and fixing them firmly in
the ground in a quadrangular figure, two feet and a half
square, I took four other sticks, and tied them parallel at
each corner about two feet from the ground; then I fastened
my handkerchief to the nine sticks that stood erect, and ex-
tended it on all sides, till it was tight as the top of a drum;
and the four parallel sticks, rising about five inches higher
than the handkerchief, served as ledges on each side. When
I had finished my work, I desired the emperor to let a troop
of his best horse, twenty-four in number, come and exercise
upon this plain. His majesty approved of the proposal, and
I took them up, one by one, in my hands, ready mounted
and armed, with the proper officers to exercise them. As
soon as they 'got into order, they divided into two parties,
performed mock skirmishes, discharged blunt arrows, drew
their swords, fled and pursued, attacked and retired, and, in
short, discovered the best military discipline I ever beheld.
The parallel stick secured them and their horses from falling
over the stage; and the emperor was so much delighted, that
ne ordered this entertainment to be repeated several days,
and it was my good fortune that no ill accident happened in20 Gunnrm's vane}:

these entertainments; only once a fiery horse, that belonged
to one of the captains, pawing with his hoof, struck a hole

in my handkerchief, and his foot slipping, he overthrew his
rider and himself; but I immediately relieved them both, and,
covering the hole with one hand, I set down the troops with
the other, in the same manner I took them up.

Two days after this adventure, the Emperor, having order-
ed that part of his army which quarters in and about the me-
tropolis, to be in readiness, took a fancy of diverting himself
in a very sin gular manner. He desired I would stand like a
Colossus, with my legs as far asunder as I conveniently could.
He then commanded his general to draw up the troops in
close order, and march them under me twenty-four abreast,
and the horse by sixteen, with drums beating, colours flying,
and pikes advanced. This body consisted of three thousand
foot and a thousand horse.

I had sent so many petitions for my liberty, that his ma-
jesty at last granted my request, but upon certain conditions,
drawn up by the chief secretary, which I solemnly agreed to.

These articles were brought to me by Skyresh Bolgolam, the
admiral of the realm, who was pleased, without any provoca-
tion, to be my mortal enemy, attended by several persons of
distinction. After they were read, I was demanded to swear
to their performance in the manner of my own country, and
then in the method prescribed by their laws; which was, to
hold my right foot in my left hand, and to place the middle-
finger of my right hand on the crown of my head, and my
thumb on the tip of my right ear. But because the reader
may be curious to have some idea of the style and manner at
expression peculiar to that people, as well as to know the ar-
ticles upon which I recovered my liberty, I have made a trans--
lation of the whole instrument, word for word, as near as I
was able, which I here offer to the public :

" Golbasto Momarem Evlame Gurdilo Shefin Mully Ully

Guc, most mighty emperor of Lilliput, delight and terro
the universe, whose dominions extend five thousand biasing:
(about twelve miles in circumference) to the extremities of
the globe; monarch of all monarchs, taller than the sons of
men; whose feet press down to the centre, and whose head
strikes against the sun; at whose nod the princes of the
earth shake their knees; pleasant as the spring, comfortable
as the summer, fruitful as autumn, dreadful as winter: His
most sublime majesty proposes to the man-mountain, ltaely
arrived at our celestial dominions, the following articles,
which by solemn oath he shall be obliged to perform :--

" 1st, The man-mountain shall not depart from our do-
minions, without our license.

"2d, He shall not presume to come into our metropolis
without our express order; at which time the inhabitants
shall have two hours' warning to keep within doors.

"3d, As he walks the said roads, he shall take the utmost
care not to trample upon the bodieipf any of our loving sub-
jects, their horses, or carriages, nor take any of our subjects
into his hands without their own consent.

"4th, If an express requires extraordinary despatch, the
man-mountain shall be obliged to carry, in his pocket, the
messenger and horse a six.days' journey, once in every moon,
and return the said messenger back (if so required) safe to
our imperial presence.

" 5th, He shall be our ally against our enemies in the
island of Blefuscu, and do his utmost to destroy their fleet,

which is now preparing to invade us.
" 6th, That the said man-mountain shall, at his time of

leasure, be aiding and assisting to our workmen, in helping
to raise certain great stones towards covering the wall of the

principal park, and our other royal buildings.

"Lastly, That, upon his solemn oath to observe all the
above articles, the said man-mountain shall have a daily al-
lowance of meat and drink sufficient for the support of 1724
of our subjects, With free access to our royal person, and. 2 curmrvsn's vovnon

other marks of our favor. Given at our palace at Belfaborac,
the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign."

I swore and subscribed to these articles with great cheer.
fulness and content, although some of them were not so
honorable as [could have wished; whereupon my chains
were immediately unlocked, and l was at full liberty, the
emperor himself, in person, doing me the honor of being
present at the whole ceremony.

 

CHAPTER IV.

Mildendo, the metropolis of Lilliput, described, together with the Empe-
ror's palace. A conversation between Gulliver and a principal secre-
tary, concerning the affairs of that Empire. Gulliver ofi'ers to serve the
Emperor in his wars.

Tm: first request I made, after I had obtained my liberty,
was, that I might have license to see Mildendo, the metropo-
lis. The wall which encompassed it is two feet and a half
high, and at least eleven inches broad, so that a coach and
horses may be driven very safely round it; and it is flanked
with strong towers at ten feet distance I stepped over the
great western gate, and passed very gently and sideling
through the two principal streets only in my short waistcoat,
for fear of damaging the roofs and eaves of the houses with
the skirts of my coat. The garret--windows and tops of
houses were so crowded with spectators, that I thought in all
my travels I had not seen a more populous place. The city
is an exact square, each side of the wall being five hundred
feet lone.- The two great streets, which run across and di-
vided it into four quarters, are five feet wide. The lanes
and alleys, which I could not enter, but only viewed them as

I passed, are from twelve to eighteen inches. The town is
capable of holding five hundred thousand souls: the houses

are from three to five stories high : the shops and markets
well provided.
The emperor's palace is in the centre of the city where
the two great streets meet. It is enclosed by a wall of two
feet high, and twenty feet distance from the buildings. The
outward court isa square of forty feet, and includes two
other courts: in the inmost are the royal apartments, which
I was very desirous to see, but found it extremely difficult;
for the great gates, from one square into another, were but
eighteen inches high and seven inches wide. However, I
made a shift, by very careful stepping, to get over into the
inmost court; and lying down upon my side, I applied my
face to the windows of the middle stories, which were left

I
\

 

 

. ""' ~' - """ -> ' . .-.. . _
m

open on purpose, and discovered the most splendid apart-
ments that can be imagined. There I saw the empress and
the young princes in their several lodgings, with their chief
attendants about them. Her imperial majesty was pleased
to smile very graciously upon me, and gave me out of the
window her hand to kiss.

One morning, about a fortnight afler I had obtained my
liberty, Reldresal, principal secretary for private afi'airs, came
to my house attended only by one servant. He ordered his
coach to wait at a distance, and desired I would give him an
hour's audience; which I readily consented to.

He then informed me that they were threatened with a
sudden invasion from the island of Blefuscu, another great

empire of the universe, almost as large and powerful as that
of Lilliput. "The quarrel," he proceeded, "began upon the
following occasion : It is allowed on all hands, that the pri-
mitive way of breaking eggs was upon the larger end; but
his present majesty's grandfather, while he was a boy, going
to eat an egg, and breaking it according to the ancient prac-
tice, happened to cut one of his fingers; whereupon the
emperor his father published an edict, commanding all his
subjects, upon great penalties, to break the smaller end of

their eggs. The people so highly resented this law, that
there have been six rebellions raised on that account; where-

in one emperor lost his life and another his crown. These
civil commotions were constantly fomented by the monarchs

of Blefuscu; and when they were quelled,' the exiles always
fled for refuge to that empire. It is computed that eleven
thousand persons have at several times suffered death rather
than submit to break their eggs at the smaller end. Now,
the Bic-endian exiles have found so much credit in the empe-
ror of :glefuscu's court, and so much private assistance and
encouragement from their party here at home, that a bloody
war has been carried on between the two empires for six-
and-thirty moons, with various success; during which time
we have suffered heavy losses, but the damage received by
the enemy is reckoned to be somewhat greater than ours.
However, they have now equipped a numerous fleet, and
are just preparing to make a descent upon us; and his im-
perial majesty, placing great confidence in your valour and
strength, has commanded me to lay this account of his affairs
before you."'ro umrtrr. 25

I desired the secretary to present my humble duty to the
emperor; and to let him know, " that I thought it would not
become me, who was a foreigner, to interfere with parties;
but 1 was ready, with the hazard of my life, to defend his
person and state against all invaders."

 

CHAPTER V'.

Gulliver, by an evtraordinary stratagem, prevents an invasion. A high
title of honour is conferred upon him. Ambassadors arrive from the Eni"
neror of Blefuscu, and sue for peace. The Emperor's apartments on
fire by accident; Gulliver instrumental in saving the rest of the palace.

THE empire of Blefuscu is an island situated to the north-
east of Lilliput, from which it is parted only by a channel of
eight hundred yards wide. I had not yet seen it, but when

I was told it was only, even at high water, in the middle,

about seventy glumglufs deep (between five or six feet,) I

provided myself with proper hooks and tackling, and about

half an hour before high water I waded with what haste I

could, and swam in the middle about thirty yards, till I felt

the ground. I arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour.

The enemy was so frightened when they saw me, that they

leapt out of their ships, and swam to shore, where there could

not be fewer than thirty thousand souls; I then took my
tackling, and fastening a hook to the hole 'at the prow of each,

I tied all the cords together at the end. While I was thus

employed, the enemy discharged several thousand arrows,

which gave me much disturbance in my work. My greatest
apprehension was for mine eyes; but I kept, among other
little necessaries, a pair of spectacles in a private pocket,
which, as I observed before, had escaped the emperor's
searches. These I took out, and fastened as strongly as I

could to protect my eyes, and thus armed,'went on boldly
3

Op
with my work. I had now fastened all the hooks, and taking
the knot in my hand, began to pull; and with great ease
drew fifty of the enemy's largest men-of--war after me.

The Blet'uscudians were at first confounded with astonish-
ment; but when they perceived the whole fleet moving in
order, anl saw me pulling at the end, they set up a loud
scream of grief and deSpair. When I had got out of danger.
I stOpped awhile to pick out the arrows that stuck in my
hands and face, and rubbed on some of the same ointment
that was given me at my first arrival. I then took 00' my
spectacles, and waiting about an hour, till the tide was a
little fallen, I waded through the middle with my cargo, and
arrived safe at the royal port of Lilliput,

The emperor remind me at my landing with all possible
encomiums, and created me a m-rdac upon the spot, which is
the highest title of honour among them. His majesty then
proposed that I should assist him still further in destroying
the power ofhis enemies; but to this I would not assent, and
the emperor 1 could see Was much chagrined at my refusal.

About three weeks after this exploit there arrived a solemn
embassy from Blet'uscu, with humble otl'ers ol'a peace, which
was soon concluded, upon conditions very advantageous to
our emperor. When the treaty was finished, wherein I did
them several good ollices by the credit I now had at court,
the ambassadors, who Were privately told how much I had
been their friend, made me a visit in form. They began with
many compliments upon my valour and generosity, and invited
me to that kingdom in the emperor their master's name.
Accordingly, the next time I had the honour to see our em-
peror, I desired his general license to wait on the Blefnscu-
dian monarch, which he was pleased to grant me, but, as I
could perceive, in a very cold manner.

It was not long after this interview that Ihad an opportu-
mty of doing his majesty, at least as I then thought, a most
srgnal service. I was alarmed at midnight with the cries of
many hundred people at my door. I heard the word
burglum repeated incessantly; several of the emperor's
court. making their way through the crowd, entreated me to
come immediately to the palace, where her imperial Majes-
ty's apartment was on fire. I got up in an instant; and or-
ders being given to clear the way before me, and it being
likewise a moonlight night, I made a shift to get to the palace

 

without trampling on any of the people. I found they had
already applied ladders to the walls of the apartment, and
were well provided with buckets, but the water was at some
distance. These buckets were about the size of alarge

thimble, and the poor people supplied me with them as fast
as they could; but the flame was so violent that they did
little good. The case seemed wholly desperate and deplora
ble; and this magnificent palace would have infallibly been
burnt down to the ground, if, by a presence of mind unusuat
to me, I had not suddenly thought of an expedient. I had,
the evening before, drank plentifully of a most delicious
wine called glimigrim; and, by the luckiest chance in the
world, I had not discharged myself of any part of it ; and this
I voided in such a quantity, and applied so well to the pr0per
places, that in three minutes the tire was wholly extinguish
ed, arm the rest of the noble pile which had cost so many
ages in erecting, preserved from destruction.

 

CHAPTER VI.

0f the inhabitants of Lilliput ; their laws and customs, Gulliver's way of
living in that country.

Tm: common size of the natives is somewhat under six
inches high, so there is an exact proportion in all other ani-
mals, as well as plants and trees; for instance, the tallest
horses and oxen are between four and five inches in height,
the sheep an inch and a half, more or less; their geese about
the bigness of a sparrow, and so the several gradations dowr-
wards, till you come to the smallest, which, to my sight, were
almost invisible; but nature has adapted the eyes of the Lil-
liputians to all objects proper for their view; they see with
great exactness, but at no great distance.

There are some laws and customs in this empire very peo
culiar: they look upon fraud as a greater crime than theft,
and therefore seldom fail to punish it with death; for they
allege, that care and vigilance, with a very common under-
standing, may preserve a man's goods from thieves, but hon-
esty has no fence against superior cunning.
Ingratitude is among them a capital crime, as we read it
to have been in some other countries: for they reason thus ;
that whoever makes ill return to his benefactor must needs

be a common enemy to the rest of mankind, from whom he
has received no obligation, and therefore such a man is not

fit to live. The old and diseased among them are supported
by hospitals; for begging is a trade unknown in this empire.

And here it may perhaps diver? the curious reader, to give
some account of my domestics, and my manner of living in

this country, during a residence of nine months and thirteen
days. Having a head mechanically turned, and being like-

wise forced by necessity, I had made for myself a table and
chair convenient enough out of the largest trees in the royal
park. Two hundred sempstresses were employed to make
me shirts, and linen for my bed and table, all of the strongest
and coarsest kind they could get; which, however, they were
forced to quilt together in several folds, for the thickest was
some degrees finer than lawn. Three hundred tailors were
employed in the same manner to make me clothes ; but they
had another contrivance for taking my measure. I kneeled
down, and they raised a ladder from the ground to my neck;
upon this ladder one of them mounted, and let fall a plumb-
line from my collar to the floor, which just answered the
length of my coat; but my waist and arms I measured myself.

I had three hundred cooks to dress my victuals, in little
convenient huts built about my house, where they and their
families lived, and prepared me two dishes apiece. I took
up twenty waiters in my hand, and placed them on the table;
a hundred more attended below on the ground, some with
dishes of meat, and some with barrels of wine, and other li-
quors slung on their shoulders ; all which the waiters above
drew up as I wanted in a very ingenious manner by certain

cords, as we draw the bucket up out of a well in Europe.
303O our.uvr-:a's vane]:

A dish of their meat was a good mouthful, and a barrel of
their liquor a reasonable draught. Their mutton yields to
ours, but their beefis excellent. I have had a sirloin so large,
that I have been forced to mogke three bites of it; but this
Is rare. My servants were astonished to see me eat, bones
: and all, as in our country we do the leg of a lark. Their
geese and turkeys I usually ate at a mouthful, and I confess
they far exceed ours. 0f their smaller fowl I could take up
twenty or thirty at the end of my knife.

One day his imperial Majesty desired "that himself and
his royal consort, with the young princes of the blood ofboth
sexes, might have the happiness," as he was pleased to call
it, " of dining with me." They came accordingly, and I
placed them in chairs of state upon my tahle,just over

wait!>> 5 "i " "; . :-,.i:m"~' "'Pexirrih"
a , w , . l! <<a .
'19

al, (I I?"

t a f
{it- Is:

iv"
. ..'I I: '3) ' . V

1
II

    
  

Il'"!
' I
l

i \

r l' .
ml" ~

1!
. diam
it?

   
 
 

      
      

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

___....--- g am

against me,'with- their guards aboutwthem. Fiihina'f>>, the
lord-high-treasurer, attended there likewise, with his white
staff; and I observed he often looked on me with a sour
countenance. That minister .md always been my secret
enemy, though he outwardly caressed me more than was
usual to the moroseness of his nature. IIe represented to
the emperor " the low condition of his treasury; that he was
forced to take up money at a great discount ; that exchequer-
bills would not circulate under nine per cent. below par;
that I had cost his Majesty above a million and half of

sprugs (their greatest gold coin, about the bigness of a span-
gle) ; and, upon the whole, that it would be advisable in the

emperor to take the first fair occasion ofdismissing mc.'

CHAPTER VII.

Gulliver being informed of a design to accuse him of high treason, makes
his escape to Blefuscu. His reception there.

WHEN I was just preparing to pay my attendance on the
emperor of Blefuseu, a considerable person at court (to whom
I had been very serviceable at a time when he lay under the
highest displeasure of his imperial Majesty,) came to my
house Very privately at night, in a close chair, and without
sending his name, desired admittance. The chairman were
dismissed; I put the chair with his lordship in it, into my
coat-pocket; and giving orders to a trusty servant to say I
was indisposed and gone to sleep, I fastened the door of my
house, placed the chair on the table, according to my custom,
and sat down by it. After the common salutations were
over,obscrving his lordship's countenance full of concern,
and inquiring into the reason, he " desired I would hear him
with patience in a mattter that highly concerned my honour
and my life." His speech was to the following effect, for I
took notes of it as soon as he left me :--

"You are to know," said he, " that several committees or

council have been lately called, in the most private manner,
on your account, and it is but two days since his majesty
came to a full resolution.
a You are very sensible tnat Skyresh Bolgolam (galbct, or
high-admiral), has been your mortal enemy almost ever since
your arrival. liis original reasons I know not; but his
hatred is increased since your great success against Blefus-
cu, by which his glory as admiral is much obscured. This
lord. in consort with Flimnap the high-treasurer, whose enmi-
ty to you is notorious on account of some old grudge, Limtoc
the general, Lalcon the chambcrlain, and Balmutl' the grand
justiciary, have prepared articles of impeachment against you
for treason and other capital crimes."

This preface made me so impatient, being conscious of my
own merits and innocence, that I was going to interrupt him,
when he entrcated me to be silent, and thus proceeded :

"Out of gratitude for the favours you have done me, I pro-
cured information of the whole proceedings, and a copy ofthc
articles ; wherein l Venture my head for your service."

IIis lordship then put into my hands a copy of the bill ot
impeachment, which contained a number of separate charges,
all of which were Very frivolous and unfounded. The prin-
cipal charge related to the assistance I had given at the tire,
which was declared to have been done from the most traitor-
ous malice; and the oll'ence, B was informed, was one which
incurred the highest penalties of the law. My refusals to
concur with his majesty in destroying the power of Blefuscu,
was next dwelt upon as a grievous act of rebellion ; also my
accepting the courtesies of the Blefuscudian ambassadors, Sac.

" In the several debates upon this impeachment," contin-
ued his lordship, " it must be confessed that his majesty stren.
uously endeavoured to extenuate your crimes. 0n the other
hand, the treasurer and admiral insisted that you should be
put to the most painful and ignominious death. It was at last
agreed on as a middle course, by a great majority of the coun-
cil, that instead of a capital punishment, you should be con--
demned to the loss of your eyes.

" In three days your friend the secretary will be directed
to come to your house, and read before you the articles of im-
pcachment; and then to signify the great lenity and favour
his majesty and council, in the mitigated sentence awarded
against you, which his majesty does not question you will
gratefully and humbly submit to ; and twenty of his majesty's
surgeons will attend, in order to see the operation well per-
formed, by discharging very sharp-pointed arrows into the
balls of your eyes as you lie on the ground."

His lordship then left me, and I remained alone, under
many doubts and perplexities of mind.

At last I took my resolution. Recollecting I had his im-
perial majesty's license to pay my attendance upon the em-
peror of Blefuscu, I seized a large man-of-war, tied a cable
to the prow, and, lifting up the anchors, I stripped myself,
put my clothes (together with my coverlet, which I carried
under my arm), into the vessel, and, drawing it after me, be-
tween wading and swimming, arrived at the royal port of
Blefuscu, where the people had long expected me.

I shall not trouble the reader with a particular account of
my'reception at this court, which was suitable to the gene-
rosity of so great a prince, nor of the difficulties I was in for
want of a house and bed, being forced to lie on the ground,
wrapped up in my coverlet.

 

CHAPTER VIII.

Gulliver, bya lucky accident, finds means to leave Blefuscu, and, after
some diflicultics, returns safe to his native country.

THREE days after my arrival, walking about, I observed,
about half a league off in the sea, somewhat that looked like a
boat overturned. I pulled off my shoes and stockings, and,
wading two or three hundred yards, I found the object to ap-
proach nearer by. force of the tide, and then plainly saw it to
be a boat, which I supposed might by some tempest have been
driven from a ship.5'4 (: v 1.1.: r an 's yovac 1-:

I shall not enter into a detail ot'thc ditliculties I was under,
by the help el'certain paddles, which cost me ten days making,
to get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscn, where a mighty
concourse ot'people appeared upon my arriVal,t'nll of wonder
at the sight oi so prodigious a vessel. ltold the emperor
b that my good fortune had thrown this boat in my way, to
carry me to some place whence I might return to my native
country, and begged his majesty's orders for getting materials
to lit It up, together with his license to depart ;" which, after
some kind expostulattons, he was pleased to grant.

lle otl'ered me at the same time his gracious protection, if
I Would continue in his service; wherein, although 1 belichd
him sincere, yet I resolved never more to put my confidence
in princes or ministers, where I could possibly avoid it; 1
thcrelbre politely declined the honour. Neither did 1 lind the
emperor at all displeased ; and I discovered, by a certain ac-
cident, that he was very g ad of my resolution, and so were
most of his ministers.

These considerations moVed me to hasten my departure
somewhat sooner then I intended; to which the, court, impa-
tient to have me away, very readily coutrilmted. lr'ive hun
tired \Vorlunen were employed to make IWo sails to my boat,
according to my directions, by quilting thirteen folds of their
strongest linen together. I was at the pains of making ropes
and 'ables, by twisting ten, twenty, or thirty ot' the thickest
and strongest of theirs. A great stone that I happened to
lind, after a long search by the sea-shore, served me for an
anchor. I had the tallowol'thrcc hundred cows for greasing
my boat and other uses. 1 was at incredible pains in cutting
down some of the largest timber-trees for oars and masts;
wherein l was, however, much assisted by his majesty's ship-
carpenters, who helped me in smoothing them, after 1 had

done the rough work.
In about a month, when all was prepared, I sent to receive
his ma Jesty's commands, and to take my leave. The emperor
and royal family came out of the palace; I lay down on my
face to kiss his hand, which he very graciously gave me ; so
lid the empress and young princes of the blood. His majesty
presented me with fifty purses of UN hundred sprugs apiece,

together with his picture at full length, which I immediately
put into one of my gloves, to keep it from being hurt.
I stored the boat with the carcasses of a hundred oxen and

three hundred sheep, with bread and drink proportionable,
and as much meat ready dressed as four hundred cooks could
provide. I took with me six cows and two bulls alive, with

as many eWc-s and rams, intending to carry them into my own
country, and propagate the breed ; and to feed them on board,
I had a good hnmlle of hay and a bag of corn. I would
gladly have taken a dozen ot'the natiVes, but this was a thing
the emperor \leltI by no means permit; and, besides a dili-
gentsearch into my pockets, his majesty engaged my honour
" not to carry away any of his subjects, although with their
own consent and desire."

Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able, I
set sail on the twi-nty-tbnrth day of September, 1701, at six
in the morning. My intention \vas to reach, if possible, one
of those islands which I had reason to believe lay to the north-

east ot' Van Diemen's Land. I discovered nothing all that
day; hut upon the next, about three in the afternoon, when
I had by my computation made twenty-four leagues from Ble-
i'useu, I descried a sail steering to the south-east: my course
was due cast. I hailed her, but could get no answer ; yet I
found I gamed upon her, for the wind slackened. I made all
the sail I could, and in half an hour s'he spied me; then hung
out her ancient and discharged a gun.

It is not easy to express the joy I was in upon the unex-
pected hOpe of once more seeing my beloved country and the
dear friendslhad left in it. The ship slackened her sails,36 GULLIVER'S vanes ro unrrtrr.

and I came up with her between five and six in the evening,
September 26. My heart leaped within me to see her
English colours. The vessel was an English merchantman,
returning from Japan by the North and South Seas. On re-
lating my adventures, which I did in a few words, the captain
thought I was raving, and that the dangers I had undergone
had disturbed my head; whereupon I took my black cattle
and sheep out of my pocket, which,after great astonishment,
clearly convinced him of my veracity. I then showed him
the gold given me by the emperor of Blefuscu, together with
his majesty's picture at full length, and some other rarities of
that country, and gave him two purses of sprugs.

I shall not trouble the reader wlth a particular account of
this voyage, which was very prosperous for the most part.
We arrived in the Downs on the 13th of April 1702. My

cattle I got safe ashore, and set them a-grazing in a bowling-
green at Greenwich, where the fineness of the grass made
them feed very heartily, though I had always feared the con-

trary : neither could I possibly have preserved them in so long
a voyage, if the captain had not allowed me some of his best
biscuit, which, rubbed to powder, and mingled with water,
was their constant food. The short time I continued in
England I made a considerable profit by showing my cattle
to many persons of quality :and others, and before I began my
second voyage, I sold them for six hundred pounds. I staid
but two months at home, and after taking leave of my friends,
I went on board the lAdventure, a merchant-ship of three
hundred tons, bound for Surat, Captain John Nicholas, of

Liverpool, commander. But my account of this voyage must
be referred to the second 'part of my travels.

THE END.6

ooeoosoooooo ooaooaaea
J. SLATER,

Bookseller, Publisher,

MD .

smAnormn,

42 DIVISION STREE'1?
NEW YORK.

ooooaoaao

O

fiflfififififififlfifi:

Has constantly for Sale 3. good assortment of

BLANK, SCHOOL AND MISCELLANEQUS -'

Also JUVENILE AND TOY. BOOKS g

' IN GREAT tummy .
.11: as low prices It: caix be found Ill--m EUR17 . .-.<<

soNG BOQKS ofeyery . . -'-_'SSSS:Wa
so:
use;

2:}1'

m aooeoooao

 $C/C/C/C/$SSC/C/C/C/SS$SSSS

m

fiat?)

   
   
   
 

VALENHNESNAND . _ .. .4
7 . "Mi 1 3'. :3;
ofallkinds Ameficawtrith '- 1?, ""453"
'3' and Varietyls un " ' ' - ' -..~.-.. '

.. an) the Trade',' at- a Very Iibe 3; 7 ("'9' ~v

ommw

WHOLESALE AND? ;;:~'<
aoooaoaaeaoooo _e;_;SSa%
'-_'--. - r.':- ' hi" 'gffii'iaxz...