. 1

'In 0 n I Nisfofn Ila-Tn" 11'- 55351;;

:4

and-

A JOURNAL OF

THE PLAGUE YEAR-

DANIEL DE OE -Y,-.
By. ' WEI/39C/ "

.0 up. '1-4- ...

7_ L54 1 '

With <<1ka by

,r , _..

s x.-- --
M x\<<"'v

my: E ~ 3,...
MODERN LIBRAR'HY

-.'v1'l'."i-'~,".'I '1948, u IAxnon son'snnuc.

$23.2)
DEV/POW

COPYRIGHT,

Random House 18 THE PUBLISHER 01?

THE MODERN LIBRARY

DONALD LILOP'IB 0 303331 I. HAAS

BBNNBTT A. CERF '

Manufactured in the United States of America
By H. WolfiCONTENTS
K

INTRODUCTION BY Louis Kronenberger

Robinson Crusoe
Preface
Advice to a Son
Bent Upon Seeing the World
The M 0st Unfortunate of Enterprises
I Came to the Brazils
The Terror of the Storm
A Dreadful Deliverance
Securing Myself Against Savages and Wild
Beasts
My Reason Began to Master My Despondency
The Journal
Managing M y Household Afiairs
Delivered Wonderfully from Sickness
A More Perfect Discovery of the Island
I Began My Third Year
My Desire to Venture Over the Main
' Sailing Round the Island
A Very Sedate Retired Life
The Print of a. Man's Naked Foot
Cannibals! '
The Care of My Safety

t.

 

"COMO-I at

17
86
45
51

Sfififi'g

108

137
150 '
159
' 17o
Ship in Distress 205
Time to Get Me a Servant 214
My Man Friday ' 227
Some Hapes That I Might Escape 236
I Dip My Hands in Blood 254
M y Island Was Now Peopled 266
An English Ship 275
Our Business Was to Recover the Ship 285
Deliverance Put in My Hands 298
Settling in the World . 308
Over the Mountains 319

3 0 0

A Journal of the Plague Years 343.- SSi3zvngvljfif ',

INTRODUCTION

by Louis Kronenberger

MONG the world's great writers, scarcely any has
cared so much about expediency, has been so phi-

lisfine and calculating in his methods as Defoe; and yet
none, in a sense, has calculated so badly. For though his
works of fiction run to sixteen solid volumes, to the
world at large he is simply and solely the author of
Robinson Crusoe: the rays of that blinding sun 'have
quite extinguished even such brilliant stars as M all
Flanders and Roxana and A Journal of the Plague Year.
But that is hardly the worst of it. To the World at large,
Robinson Crusoe, however celebrated, is not a book for

men but a book for boys; lore, not literature. It is s'omea -

thing that everybody has read, though perhaps not every-

body can remember reading it; it is, or was until recently,

as much a part of boyhood as the slingshot and the cira ~

cus. But it can hardly be said to rank with the indispen-
sable, or with even the most popular, novels 'for grownf
ups. The reason why--or, better yet,-- the insfinct'whyAis

easy to grasp. If one is not a sentimentalist, one'mayiw'ell I f
wonder whether even the very greatest of boys'books ' "E

3
will constitute an exhilarating experience for men. And
if one is a sentimentalist, one may wonder whether any-
thing one loved so much in childhood should be touched,
tampered with, re-examined--how can it help letting one
down?

Well, one can only speak for oneself; but when some
years ago I went back to Robinson Crusoe, I was en-
thralled. I'm sure it helped that I went back rather ex-
pecting to be disappointed, as it may hinder if, after
reading this introduction, you expect to be instantly daz-
zled. But I doubt whether it helped, and I doubt whether
it can hinder, much. I can understand (though not easily)
anyone quitting the book before Crusoe gets shipwrecked
on the island, or again after Crusoe sails away from it.
And I can understand (quite easily) anyone who should
impatiently toss aside the succeeding volume of Crusoe's
adventures--because I have twice done that myself. But
in the present book, so long as Robinson is held fast on
the island, so long must the reader be too. For just that:
long, he is in the presence of a masterpiece, and of what
might almost be declared a miracle: for a situation that
has, in itself, an intense and universal lure is somehow
handled exactly as it should be. The only thing that for
me has the same kind of magnetism as the island section
of Robinson Crusoe is the piloting chapters of Life on the
Mississippi. In both we are offered what might be called
a discourse on method; and in the plain utilitarian details
of both there is something immensely romantic, some-
thing that fires our youth, and then long after rekindles it.

For however grim and disconsolate the situation of a
man all alone on an island, who ever saw Crusoe there
in any such light? So far from making his hero tragic,
Defoe makes us--or at least the eternal boy in us---not
pity but envy him. Crusoe is not only monarch of all he
surveys; but by virtue of his experiences and his predica-
ment he acquires for us something like the rank of a
mighty hunter or a great explorer. What were in truth
quite back-breaking obstacles are time and again made
to seem like glorious opportunities; he is no realist who
pursues Crusoe as realism. This is no poor devil who
while under sentence, as it were, of solitary confinement
must also forage for food and beware of cannibals. This,
rather, is a man with a whole island for a toy, who may
build him as many residences and pleasuredoms as he
fancies, and trek lordlike through his own forests and
sail along his coasts and herd his goats and harvest his
crops and ransack the ship for plunder. There is some-
thing of the morning of the world about it all; yet to-
gether with the unspotted opportunities of the first man,
Crusoe has all the ingrained skill and knowledge of many
generations of Britons. Hence, singlehanded, he converts
a rough-hewn Eden into a rough-hewn England. From
one point of view, it is odd that we should find all this-
romantic; for Crusoe's stubborn resistance to the call of
the wild is so outside Nature that it could only be be-
lieved of something so equally outside Nature as the
trueborn Englishman. We can be very glad of this, how-
ever. F or it would need a rather diseased taste to enjoy
watching Robinson sink to the level of the brute and per-
haps below it; whereas there is a healthy and. creative
satisfaction in watching him turn his island into a tidy
Little England.

I
Which brings us to something stranger still--the fact:
that Crusoe's story is so intensely interesting only be-l
cause Crusoe himself is so incredibly dull. But then, to'
do what he did he had to be what he was; to make a
second England he had to believe fanatically in the first;
not to go mad at the end he had to be a trifle mad from
the outset; in the midst of abounding self-pity he had to
be sustained by consuming self-interest; even God had
to be a sort of Magnate with whom, in efiect, a lesser
businessman could bargain. Of all the great heroes of
fiction Crusoe is surely the one who would have bored us!
the most in the flesh. With me, indeed, it is a nice point
whether I should prefer to be shipwrecked, as he was,
alone; or with him alone for company. He has no humor, ,_
no charm, no sensibility, no reach of mind, no grace of l
perception. Dickens truly remarked that Crusoe is the 1
one great novel that never calls forth either laughter or
tears. Robinson is smug, he is crass, he is--like Defoe]
himself--hypocritical in grain. But if he contains almost' ,,
everything that IS arid and coarse in the British character,
he exemplifies, as well, everything that is admirable. He ,
is plucky, sturdy, self-reliant, practical, imperturbable--
the very essence of that race that thinks it unmanly to
grumble and ungentlemanly to gloat.

Others have noted how cleverly Defoe allowed Crusoe
just enough in the way of equipment and fodder and
tools for him at the outset to stay alive, and in the course
of time to be made comfortable. And to a nicety too, I
would add, Defoe has contrived when total solitude shall
cease. For at length the point is reached where Robinson
has achieved as much in the way of civilization as hefinds possible, or we find fun; it is the point where,'in a"
commoner run of novel, the hero after leng and arduous
struggle has made his pile and is ready for a mate. Defoe
cannot in the circumstances offer Crusoe a mate; and he
need not--a companion, for the reader at any rate, does
quite as well. So 10! there appears in the sand that single!
footprint which is still, after two centuries, more dra-
matic and thrilling than all the fingerprints in the very
best whodunits; and presently there appears on the
scene that savage who is still, after two centuries, the
most famous of all servants. Once he has Friday to edu-
cate, Crusoe can embark on his great secondary English
role; having contrived all by himself a Little England, he
turns Friday all by himself into a Little India. After that,
and a round of skirmishing with cannibals, it is permitted
to sail for home.

After that, there are further adventures, of course--as
there had been a whole slew of them before the ship-
wreck. But the picaresque parts of the book, though
lively, are no part of the miracle; the miracle belongs to
the island, where neither Crusoe nor Defoe can go astray,
nor Robinson be ever anywhere but at home. And this
is of enormous help to a teller of stories who is absolutely
"WWW.
vent endlessly, but hardly integrate at all; one thing d
not come out of another, it merely comes after it. The
artistic shortcomings, the essential discontinuity of such
a method are obvious; and it can be truthfully main-
tained that Defoe's genius most expands where his ge-
ography least does--in the island parts of Crusoe, and in
the Plague Year. For these two Works have something of V
the concentration of interest, the intensive force that
distinguish the novel from the tale, and the work of art
from the mere irruption of talent. On the other hand, by
the singularity of their subject-matter, they have had not
the slightest influence on the serious novel itself; whereas
Moll Flanders and Roxana have probably had a good
deal.

. No doubt there is much to say of the exotic fascination
of Robinson Crusoe; of the oppressive sense of danger
and appalling sense of solitude; of the flora and fauna,
the parrots and cats. But this side of the story counted
much more for me in boyhood than it does now. What
lures me on is much less the creepiness of the island
noises at. midnight than tomorrow's straightforward effort
to build a fence or bake a pot; the given A and B, how
to contrive C; the given A B and C, how to bring 0E D--
straight on to ampersand. This marvelous resourcefulness
on Crusoe's part, this determination to wrest comfort out
of chaos, this transforming a wilderness into a one-man
state, in which he is both architect and builder, husband-
man and housewife, management and labor, commoner
and king, awakens in us a very delighted response. But
of course Crusoe does have much also in the way of
thrills and suspense--consider the blood-curdling en-
counter with the wolves; and it is the greatest of all boys'
books because it is about equaHy compounded of der-
ring-do and Do and Dare, the adventure yarn and the
Alger story. Accordingly this dullard that one would in-
real life run screaming from has caught and forever held
the imagination of mankind.
A Journal of the Plague Year is, artistically, Defoe's
least faulty production. It is the story of just one thing,
a plague; and it is confined to just one spot, Greater Lon-
don. Hence nothing else of Defoe's has a like unity of
theme and development; and I think nothing else has
quite as much or as marvelous factuality, or knack for
making what is fictitious seem genuine.

Of this particular quality Defoe--as who is not aware
--had more than any other writer that ever lived; he is
by general consent the great master of the convincing
detail, the plausible contradiction, the effective irrele-
vancy, the bright, bland testimony, the true-sounding lie.
No one else has ever been so crafty about appearing so
honest; one reason why we believe what Defoe tells us
is that much of it isn't worth being told; but of course
the triviality is the essence of the trick. So again is the
extraordinary specificness. Emerson said that Swift--who
had much of Defoe's genius for prosaic detail--always
described his characters as though for the police: the
Plague Year impresses you as written for the College of
Medicine or the Board of Health. It has the look of some-
thing to be used for reference rather than read for pleas-
ure. It is probably the greatest fake document of its
length in all literature; and even for a writer who was
always trying to make fiction sound like fact, it is a superb
tour de force.

To be sure, it gets a great deal of support from history;
is, in fact, very nearly true. Its account of the plague
probably resembles the real plague far more than Cru-
soe's adventures resemble Selkirk's. There were actual
documents for Defoe to draw on, there were his own

I
early recollections and the many first-hand accounts he
must have heard from childhood. Even as a document,
the Plague Year is no doubt a very good guide, true in all
essentials and historical in most details. But the point is
that Defoe made of his account a seamless whole, and
we shall never know just how much of it is fiction and
how much is fact.

In any case, the picture it provides is an indelible
one; the almost droning clinical manner, the countless
statistics, the ceaseless examples all operating in its
favor. The effect is the more awful because no efiect
seems aimed after; as when somebody tells a particularly
gruesome story in a particularly flat voice. Furthermore,
it is only this flat voice, this matter-of-fact manner, that
sustains the length of the book; if it were at all high-
pitched, if it used any of the standard devices for being
dramatic or pathetic or horrifying, it would soon be-
come a mere melodrama of hideousness, and at length a
downright anticlimax of woes. As it is, by making no
emotional demands on us, Defoe can pack in an extraor-
dinary amount of physical detail. We are not asked to
care deeply about his victims; they die like flies without
ever having lived as people. Today, moreover, the horror
of the epidemic is somewhat mitigated for us by the re-
moteness of the disease; and though the awful "tokens"
have a fearsome quality still, we can read about the
plague with an equanimity we should hardly possess
reading about a terrible fictional epidemic of, say, in-
fantile paralysis.

If the personal stories of agony and death, the ac-
counts of entire households and streets and boroughs be-
ing laid low, the narratives of frantic and belated migra-
tion, the night-lighted pictures of mass burial--if these
have not quite the impact of the greatest literature, 'one
and all have the interest of brilliantly graphic journalism.
Only in a few places, I think, is one deeply touched; only
in a few more truly terrified; but there is hardly a page
without something to absorb or appal one, and there are
whole stretches--late in the book as well as early--when
one is altogether fascinated. That the book as a whole is
too long, too loaded with statistics, too studded with ex-
amples, too repetitive of facts, too sauntering of move-
ment, may show want of discretion but is yet evidence
of art: Defoe gives us more than we need so as to give
the book a supreme verisimilitude, an air past all doubt
of being a genuine document. I am sure that if we did
not know this was fiction we would never suspect it to
be. But knowing it, we do tend to find it just a touch
too clever for its own good; there are places here, as in
almost all Defoe's writing, where we--I am not sure
that the metaphor is original--smell out the confidence
man in him, and find him so plausible as to be spe-
cious. Defoe's marvelous factuality, his wonderful im-
agination about anything unimaginative, enables him to
do superlatively what, in a man of high talent, is not
quite, perhaps, worth doing at all. And in the end his
very clearsightedness, his 20-20 literary vision, comes to

seem a mild form of distortion in itself; we feel that all-

this is so, but that this is not all. Nobody is better to read
than Defoe when one has had one's fill of ecstasy or even
embtion; but after a great stretch of him one is glad for
the books that do offer laughter and tears. -

I

{mayROBINSON Cnuson
IF EVER the story of any private man's adventures in the
world were worth making public, and were acceptable

, when published, the editor of this account thinks this will
be so.

The wonders of this man's life exceed all that (he
thinks) is to be found extant; the life of one man being
scarce capable of a greater variety.

The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and
with a religious application of events to the uses to which
wise men always apply them (viz.) to the instruction of
others by this example, and to justify and honor the wis-
dom of Providence in all the variety of our circumstances,
let them happen how they will.

The editor believes the thing to be a just history of fact;
neither is there any appearance of fiction in it. And how-
ever thinks, because all such things are dispatched, that
the improvement of it, as well to the diversion, as to the
instruction of the reader, will be the same; and as such, he
thinks, without farther compliment to the world, he does

' them a great service in the publication.
 

WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a)

good family, though not of that country, my father

being a foreigner of Bremen who settled first at Hull.
He got a good estate by merchandise mfmm "
trade, lived afterward at York, from whence he had mar--
ried my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a'
very good family in that country, and from whom I was
called Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the usual corruption

of words in England we are now called, nay, we call our-

selves, and write our name "Crusoe," and so my compan- ' '

ions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-(
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, for-
merly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and
was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the Span-
iards; what became of my second brother I never knew,
any more than my father or mother did know what was
become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts. My father, who was very ancient, had given me
a competent share of learning, as far as house education.
and a country free school generally goes, and designed
me for the law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but
going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so strongly

I.4 ROBINSON cavsoE

against the will, nay, the commands of my father and
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother
and other friends that there seemed to be something fatal
in that propension of nature tending directly to the life of
misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he
was confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly
with me upon this subject. He asked me what reasons
more than a mere wandering inclination I had for leaving
my father's house and my native country, where I might
be well introduced, and had a prospect of- raising my for-
tune by application and industry, with a life of ease and
pleasure. He told me it was for men of desperate fortunes
on one hand, or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other,
who went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise,
and make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either
too far above me, or too far below me; that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper station
of low life, which he had found by long experience was
the best state in the world, the most suited to human hap-
piness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the
labor and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind and
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me I might
judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing, viz.,
that this was the state of life which all other people en-
vied; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable
consequences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been.placed in the middle of the two extremes,
between the mean and the great; that the wise man gave
his testimony to this as the just standard of true felicity,
when he prayed to have neither poverty or riches.ADVICE TO A sou 5

He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower
part of mankind; but that the middle station had the few-
est disasters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes
as the higher or lower part of mankind; nay, they were
not subjected to so many distempers and uneasinesses
either of body or mind as those were who, by vicious liv-
ing, luxury, and extravagances on one hand, or by hard
labor, want of necessaries, and mean or insufficient diet
on the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves by
the natural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues
and all kinds of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were
the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable di-
versions, and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings
attending the middle station of life; that this way men
went silently and smoothly through the world, and com.
fortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labors of the
hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery for
daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances,
which rob the soul of peace and the body of rest; not en-
raged with the passion of envy or secret burning lust of
ambition for great things; but in easy circumstances slid--
ing gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the
sweets of living, without the bitter, feeling that they are
happy and learning by every day's experience to know it
more sensibly.

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not to
precipitate myself into miseries which Nature and the sta-
tion of life I was born in seemed to have provided against;
that I was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that
he would do well for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly>>
into the station of life which he had been just 1'6me
mending to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault that must
hinder it, and that he should have nothing to answer for,
having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt. In a word,
that as he would do very kind things for me if I would
stay and settle at home as he directed, so he would not
have so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any
encouragement to go away. And to close all, he told me
I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his
young desires prompting him to run into the army where
he was killed; and though he said he would not cease to

pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me that if I
did take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and
I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neg-
lected his counsel when there might be none to assist in
my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know
it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down
his face very plentifully, and especially when he spoke of
my brother who was killed; and that when he spoke of
my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he
was so moved that he broke off the discourse and told me
his heart was so full he could say no more to me.

Bent Upon Seeing the World

 

I WAS sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more but to settle at home according
to my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off;BENT UPON SEEING THE WORLD 7

and in short, to prevent any of my father's farther impor-
tunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away
from him. However, I did not act so hastily neither as my
first heat of resolution prompted, but I took my mother,>>
at a. time whenlihwghthstalittlepleasanter thannrdi- '
Dam and told her that mxthaughtsmesc. enhtelxbsnt
upon _seeingthe world that _I should never settle to any-
thing with resolution enough to go through with it, and
my father had better give me his consent than force me
to go without it; that I was now eight 1d whi
was too late to go apprentice to a trade or clerk to
attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve
out my time, and I should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad,
if I came home again and did not like it, I would go no
more, and I would promise by a double diligence to re-
cover that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She told me
she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father
upon any such subject; that he knew too well what was
my interest to give his consent to anything so much for
my hurt, and that she wondered how I could think of any
such thing after such a discourse as I had had with my
father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew
my father had used to me; and that, in short, if I would
ruin myself there was no help for me; but I might depend
I should never have their consent to it; that for her part
she would not have so much hand' in my destruction, and
I should never have it to say that my mother was willing
when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the dis-
course to him, and that my father, after sheng a great
cOncem at it, said to her with a sigh, "That boy might bel

8 ROBINSON CRUSOE

happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes abroad he
will be the most miserable wretch that was ever born. I
can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose
though in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf t "
all proposals of settling to business, and frequently ex-
postulating with my father and mother about their being
so positively determined against what they knew my in-
clinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull,
where I went casually, and without any purpose of mak-
ing an elopement that time; but I say, being there, and
one of my companions being going by sea to London in
his father's ship and prompting me to go With them, with
the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., that it
should cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted nei-
ther father or mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they might,
without asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any
consideration of circumstances or consequences and in
an ill hour, God knows, on the firstpf September,-1651:\
I went on board a ship bound for London. Never anyi
young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner
or continued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner
gotten out of the Humber but the wind began to blow

and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and as I'

had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body and terrified in my mind. Lbegan'nowserj--
lously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I
was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked
leavinginy father's houseandflabandoningpmy duty; all
the good counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my
mother's entreaties came now fresh into my mind, and my
conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of hard-

ness to'which it has been since, reproached_rr1_e with the
contem t of advice and the breach of my duty to God
and my father.

All this while the storm increased and the sea, which I
had never been upon before, went very high, though
nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor
like what I saw a few days after. But it was enough to
afiect me then, who was but a young sailor and had never
known anything of the matter. I expected every wave
would have swallowed us up and that every time the ship
fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the
sea, we should never rise more; and in this agony of mind
I made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please
God here to spare my life'this one voyage, if ever I got .
once my foot upon dry land again, I would go directly
home to my father and never set it into a ship again while
I lived; that I would take his advice and never run myself
into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly
the goodness of his observations about the middle station
of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea or
troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like a true
repenting prodigal, go home to my- father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued, and indeed some time after; but the .
next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I
began to be a little inured to it. However, I was very
grave for all that day, being also a little seasick still; but
towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite
over, and a charming fine evening followed; the sun went
down perfectly clear and rose so the next morning; and
having little or no wind and a smooth sea, the sun shin-
ing upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delight-
ful that ever I saw.

I had slept well ,in the night and was now no more sea-
sick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rough and terrible the day before and could
be so calm and so pleasant in so little time after. And now
lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, comes to me. "Well,
Bob," says he, clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you
do after it? I warrant you were frighted, wa'n't you, last
night, when it blew but a capful of wind?" "A capful,
d'you call it?" said I, " 'twas a terrible storm." "A storm,
you fool, you," replies he; "do you call that a storm? why,
it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-
room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as
that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let
us make a bowl of punch and we'll forget all that; d'ye see
what charming weather 'tis now?" To make short this sad
part of my story, we went the old way of all sailors; the
punch was made, and I was made drunk with it, and in
that one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance,
all my reflections upon my past conduct and all my reso-
lutions for my future. In a word, as the sea was returned
to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the
abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts be-
ing over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed
up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my for-
mer desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and prom-
ises that I made in my distress. I found indeed some in-
tervals of reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it
were, endeavor to return again sometimes; but I shook
them 0E and roused myself from them as it were from a
distemper and, applying myself to drink and company,
soon mastered the return of those fits, for so I called them,
and I had in five or six days got as complete a victory
over conscience as any young fellow that resolved not to
be troubled with it could desire. But I was to have an-
other trial for it still; and Providence, as in such cases
generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely without
excuse. For if I would not take this for a deliverance, the
next was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened
wretch among us would confess both the danger and the
mercy. .

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yar-
mouth Roads; the wind having been contrary and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the storm.
Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we
lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at southwest, for
seven or eight days, during which time a great many
ships from Newcastle came into the same Roads, as the
common harbor where the ships might wait for a wind
for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long, but should have
tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh;
and after we had lain four or five days, blew very hard.
However, the Roads being reckoned as good as a harbor,
the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very strong,
our men were unconcerned and not in the least appre-
hensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth,
after the manner of the sea; but the eighth day in the
morning the wind increased, and we had all hands at
work to strike our topmasts and make everything snug
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By
noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once
or twice our anchor had come home; upon which our
master ordered out the sheet anchor, so that we rode with
two anchors ahead and the cables veered out to the bit-
ter end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant to
the business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and ,
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself
say several times, "Lord, be merciful to us, we shall be all
lost, we shall be all undone"; and the like. During these
first hurries, I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which
was in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper; I
could ill reassume the first penitence, which I had so ap-
parently trampled upon, and hardened myself against. I
thought the bitterness of death had been past and that
this would be nothing too, like the first. But when the
master himself came by me, as I said just now, and said
we should be all lost, I was dreadquy frighted. I got up
out of my cabin and looked out; but such a dismal sight
I never saw: the sea went mountains high and broke upon
us every three or four minutes. When I could look about,
I could see nothing but distress round us: two ships that
rid near us we found had cut their masts by the board,
being deep loaden; and our men cried out that a ship
which n'd about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two
more ships, being driven from their anchors, were run out
of the Roads to sea at all adventures, and that with not a
mast standing. The light ships fared the best as not so
much laboring in the sea; but two or three of them drove
and came close by us, running away with only their sprit-
safl out before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast,
which he was very unwilling to do. But the boatswain
protesting to him that if he did not the ship would foun--
der, he consented; and when they had cut away the fore-
mast, the mainmast stood so loose and shook the ship so
much, they were obliged to cut her away also, and make
a clear deck. -

Anyone may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in
' such a fright before at but a little. But if I can express at
this distance the thoughts I had about me at that time, I
was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my
former convictions, and the having returned from them
to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first, then I was
at death itself; and these, added to the terror of the storm,
put me into such a condition that I can by no words de-
scribe it. But the worst was not come yet; the storm con-
tinued with such fury that the seamen themselves ac-
knowledged they had never known a worse. We had a
good ship, but she was deep loaden, and wallowed in the
sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out she
would founder. It was my advantage in one respect that
I did not know what they meant by "founder" till I en-
quired. However, the storm was so violent that I saw
what is not often seen; the master, the boatswain, and
some others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers
and expecting every moment when the ship would go to
the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the
rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been down
on purpose to see cried out we had sprung a leak; another
said there was four foot water in the hold. Then all hands
were called to the pump. At that very word my heart, as I
thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon the
side of my bed where I sat into the cabin. However, the
men roused me, and told me that I, that was able to do
nothing before, was as well able to pump as another; at
which I stirred up and went to the pump and worked
very heartily. While this was doing, the master, seeing
some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm,
were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would come
near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress. I,
who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised,
that I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing
had happened. In a word, I was so surprised that I fell
down in a swoon. As this was a time when everybody had

/
his own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was
become of me; but another man stepped up to the pump,
and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking
I had been dead; and it was 'a great while before I came
to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it
was apparent that the ship would founder, and though
the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible
she could swim till we might run into a port, so the mas-
ter continued firing guns for help; and a light ship who
had rid it out just ahead of us ventured a boat out to
help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came
near us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or
for the boat to lie near the ship side, till at last the men
rowing very heartily and venturing their lives to save
ours, our men cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy
to it and then veered it out a great length, which they
after great labor and hazard took hold of, and we hauled
them close under our stern and got all into their boat. It
was to no purpose for them or us after we were in the
boat to think of reaching to their own ship, so all agreed
to let her drive and only to pull her in towards shore as
much as we could, and our master promised them, that if
the boat was staved upon shore, he would make it good to
their master; so, partly rowing and partly driving, our
boat went away to the norward, sloping towards the shore
almost as far as Winterton Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship but we saw her sink, and then I understood
for the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in
the sea; I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up
when the seamen told me she was sinking; for from that
moment they rather put me into the boat than that I
might be said to go in, my heart was as it were dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the. men yet laboring
at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see,
when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able to
see the shore, a great many peoPle running along the
shore to assist us when we should come near; but we
made but slow way towards the shore, nor were we
able to reach the shore, till being past the lighthouse at
Winterton, the shore falls OE to the westward towards
Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence of
the wind. Here we got in, and, though not without much
dificulty, got all safe on shore and walked afterwards on
foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity as well by the magistrates of
the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by particular
merchants and owners of ships, and had money given us
sufficient to carry us either to London or back to Hull, as
we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father,
an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even
killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I went
away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a
great while before he had any assurance that I was not
drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several times
loud calls from my reason and my more composed judg- '
ment to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not
what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret over-
ruling decree that hurries us on to be the instruments of
our own destruction, even though it be before us, and that
we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certame nothing but
some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and
which it was impossible for me to escape, could have
pushed me forward against the calm reasonings and per-
suasions of my most retired thoughts and against two
such visible instructions as I had met with in my first
attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I;
the first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth,
which was not till two or three days, for we were sepa-
rated in the town to several quarters; I say, the first time
he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and looking
very melancholy and shaking his head, asked me how I
did, and telling his father who I was, and how I had come
this voyage only for a trial in order to go farther abroad;
his father turning to me with a very grave and concerned
tone, "Young man," says he, "you ought never to go to
sea any more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible
token that you are not to be a seafaring man." "Why, sir,"
said I, "will you go to sea no more?" "That is another
case," said he, "it is my calling and therefore my duty;
but as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a
taste Heaven has given you of what you are to expect if
you persist; perhaps this is all befallen us on your ac-
count, like ]onah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continues
he, "what are you? and on what account did you go to
sea?" Upon that I told him some of my sto ; at the end
of which he burst out with a strange kind of passion,
"What had I done," says he, "that such an unhappy

and was farther than he could have authority to go. How-
ever, he afterwards talked very gravely to me, exhorted
me to go back to my father and not tempt Providence to
my ruin; told me I might see a visible hand of Heaven
against me, "And, young man," said he, "depend upon it,
if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meetTHE MOST UNFORTUNATE OF ENTERPRISES 17

with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your
father's words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and
I saw him no more; which way he went, I know not. As
for me, having some money in my pocket, I traveled to
London by land; and there, as well as on the road, had
many struggles with myself what course of life I should
take, and whether I should go home or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to
me how I should he laughed at among the neighbors and
should be ashamed to see not my father and mother only
but even everybody else; from whence I have since often
observed how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason
which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they
are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
not ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to
be esteemed fools but are ashamed of the returning,
which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take and what course of life
to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going
home; and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the
distress I had been in wore off; and as that abated, the
little motion I had in my desires to a return wore off with
it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it and
looked out for a voyage.

The M ost Unfortunate of Enterprises

[HAT evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and in-

digested notion of raising my fortune: and that impressed
Mgggcflsojgrgjbly umn me as to make me deaf to
all good advice and to the entreaties and even command
of my father; I say, the same influence, whatever it was,
presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my
view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of
Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to
Guinea.

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures
I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at
the same time I had learned the duty and office of a
foremast man; and in time might have qualified myself
for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was
always my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here; for '
having money in my pocket and good clothes upon my
back, I would always go on board in the habit of a gentle-
man; and so I neither had any business in the ship, or
learned to do any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and unguided young fellows as I then was; the devil
generally not omitting to lay some snare for them very
early. But it was not so with me; I first fell acquainted
with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of
Guinea; and who having had very good success there
was resolved to go again; and who taking a fancy to my
conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that
time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world, told
me if I would go the voyage with him I should be at no r
expense; I should be his messmate and his companion;E
and if I could _carry anything with me, I should have all
the advantage of it that the trade would admit; and per-
haps I might meet with some encouragement.

I embraced the offer, and, entering into a strict friemt]
ship with this captain, who was an honest and plaindea

l
ing man, I went the voyage with him and carried a small
adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty
of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably;
for I carried about PS40 in such toys and tn'fles as the
captain directed me to buy. This PS40 I had mustered to-
gether by the assistance of some of my relations whom I
corresponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or
at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was success-
ful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity
and honesty of my friend the captain, under whom also
I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the
rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of
the ship's course, take an observation, and in short, to
understand some things that were needful to be under-
stood by a sailor. For, as he took delight to introduce me,
I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made
me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, whi
yielded me in London at my return almost PS800, and .
filled me with those aspiring thoughts which. have since
so completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; par-
ticularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a
violent calenture1 by the excessive heat of the climate;
our principal trading being upon the coast, from the lati-
tude of fifteen degrees north even to the line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I re-
solved to go the same voyage again, and I embarked m
the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former
voyage and had now got the command of the ship. This
was the unhappiest voyage that ever- man made; for

}A tropical fever, characterized by delirium.
though I did not carry quite PS100 of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had PS200 left, and which I lodged with

my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell '

into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was
this, viz., our ship making her course towards the Canary
Islands, or rather between those islands and the African
shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by a
Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the
sail she could make. We crowded also as much canvas as
our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have got
clear; but finding the p'uate gained upon us, and would
certainly come up with us' in a' few hours, we prepared to
fight; our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eight-

.1-

een. About three in the afternoon he came up with us, '

and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, in-
stead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side and poured in a
broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire and pouring in also his small-shot
from near 200 men which he had on board. However, we
had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He
prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who im-
mediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and fig-
ging. We plied them with small-shot, half-pikes, powder
chests, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice.
However, to cut short this melancholy part of our story,
our ship being disabled, and three of our men killed and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were car
ried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to th
Moors. '

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I
apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to the em-
peror's court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept
by the captain of the rover, as his proper prize, and made
his slave, being young and nimble and fit for his business.'
At this surprising change of my circumstances from a
merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now I looked back upon my father's pro-
phetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable and
have none to relieve me, which I thought was now so
effectually brought to pass that it could not be worse; that
now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I was
undone without redemption. But alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the
sequel of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his
heuse, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some
time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or
Portugal man-of-war; and that then I should be set at
liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his l
little garden and do the common drudgery of slaves about
his house; and when he came home again from his cruise,
he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way that
had the least probability in it. Nothing presented to make
the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to com-
municate it to that would embark with me; no fellow-
slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there but
myself; so that for two years, though I often pleased my-
self with the imagination, yet I never had the least en-
couraging prospect of putting it in practice.

After abouL two s an' odd circumstance presented\
itself, which put e old thoughfof making some attempt
for my liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home
longer than usual without fitting out his ship, which, as
I heard, was for want of money, he used constantly, once
or twice a week, sometimes oftener if the weather was
fair, to take the ship's pinnace and go out into the road
a-fishing; and as he always took me and a young Moor
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and
I proved very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch, that
sometimes he would send me with a Moor, one of his
kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as they called him,
to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a stark
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were
not half a league from the shore we lost sight of it; and
rowing we knew not whither or which way, we labored
all day and all the next night, and when the morning came,
we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling in
for the shore; and that we were at least two leagues from
the shore. However, we got well in again, though with a
great deal of labor and some danger; for the wind began
to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we
were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having lying
by him the longboat of our English ship he had taken, he
resolved he would not go a-fishing any more without a
compass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter
of his ship, who also was an English slave, to build a little
stateroom or cabin in the middle of the longboat, like that
of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to steer and
hale home the main-sheet; and room before for a hand or
two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with that we
call a shoulder-of-mutton sail; and the boom jibed over
the t0p of the' cabin, which lay very snug and low and
had in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a.
table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; par
ticularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and as
I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went'
without me. It happened that he had appointed to go out
in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or
three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for
whom he had provided extraordinarily; and had therefore
sent on board the boat over night, a larger store of pro-
visions than ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready
three fusees with powder and shot, which were on board
his ship; for that they designed some sport of fowling as
well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the
next morning with the boat washed clean, her ancient1
and pendants out, and everything to accommodate his
guests; when by and by my patron came on board alone
and told me his guests had put off going upon some busi-
ness that fell out, and ordered me with the man and boy,
as usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some
fish, for that his friends were to sup at his house; and com-
manded that as soon as I had got some fish I should bring
it home to his house; all which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a
little ship at my command; and my master being gone, I
prepared to furnish myself, not for a fishing business but
for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as
consider whither I should steer; for anywhere to get out
of that place was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak
to this Moor to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our

1 Banner.

J
patron's bread; he said that was true; so he brought a
large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind and three
jars with fresh water into the boat; I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which, it was evident by the
make, were taken out of some English prize; and I con-
veyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore,
as if they had been there before, for our master. I con-
veyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat, which
weighed above half a hundredweight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which
were of great use to us afterwards; especially the wax to
make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into also. His name was Ismael, who they-l
call Muly, or Moely; so I called to him, "Moely," said I,
"our patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not get
a little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some
alcamies" (a fowl like our curlews) "for ourselves, for I
know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship." "Yes," says
he, "I'll bring some"; and accordingly he brought a great .
leather pouch which held about a pound and a half of.
powder, or rather more; and another with shot, that had:
five or six pound, with some bullets; and put all into the'
boat. At the same time I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the
large bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring
what was in it into another; and thus furnished with

everything needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The
castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above
a mile out of the port before we haled in our sail and set
us down to fish. The wind blew from the north-northeast,
which was centrary to my desire; for had it blown
southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of
Spain, andat least reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my
resolutions were, blow which way it would,'I would be
gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave the
rest to Fate.

After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up,
that he might not see them, I said to the Moor, "This will
not do, our master will not be thus served, we must stand
farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed and, being in
the head of the boat, set the sails; and as I had the helm, I
run the boat out near a league farther and then brought
her to as if I would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I
stepped forward to where the Moor was, and making as
if I stooped for something behind him, I took him by sur-
prise with my am under his twist and tossed him clear
overheard into the sea; he rose immedi , for'he swam \
like a cork, and called to me, begge to be taken in, told
me he would go all over the world with me. He swam so
strong after the boat that he would have reached me very
quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling pieces, I
presented it at him and told him I had done him no hurt
and, if he would be quiet, I would do him none. "But,"
said I, "you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and
the sea is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and
I will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat,
I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to have
my liberty"; so he turned himself about and swam for\
the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with .
ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could ha' been content to ha' taken this Moor with
me and ha' drowned the boy, but there was no venturing
to trust him. When he was gone I turned to the fight)?
they called Xwnd said to him, "Xury, if you will be
faithful to me I'll make you a great man; but if you will
not stroke your face to be true to me," that is, swear by
Mahomet and his father's heard, "I must throw you into

\
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so in-
nocently that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be
faithful to me and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching
to windward, that they might think me gone towards the
Straits' mouth (as indeed anyone that had been in their
wits must ha' been supposed to do); for who would ha'
supposed we were sailed on to the southward to the truly
barbarian coast, where whole nations of Negroes were
sure to surround us with their canoes, and destroy us;
where we could ne'er once go on shore but we should be
devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages of
human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east, bend-
ing my course a little toward the east, that I might keep
in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind
and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I
first made the land, I could not be less than 150 miles
south of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabouts, for
we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors and
the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their
hands, that I would not stop or go on shore or come to an
anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that
manner five days: and then the wind shifting to the south-
ward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured
to make to the coast and came to an anchor in the mouth
of a little river. I knew not what or where; neither what
latitude, what country, what nations or what river. I
neither saw, or desired to see, any people; the principal '
thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek
in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it
was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures of we knew not
what kinds that the poor boy was ready to die with fear
and begged of me not to go on shore fill day. "Well,
Xury," said I, "then I won't; but it may be we may see
men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
"Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury, laughing;
"make them run wey." Such English Xury spoke by con-
versing among us slaves. However, I was glad to see the
boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram ( out of our
pan-on's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After all, Xury's
advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our little
anchor and lay still all night; I say still, for we slept none!
for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures (we
knew not what to call them) of many sorts come down to
the seashore and run into the water, wallowing and wash-
ing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves;
and they made such hideous howlings and yellings that I
never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too;
but we were both more frighted when we heard one of
these mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat;
we could not see him, but we might hear him by his blow-
ing to be a monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said
it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I lmow; but
poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away.
"No," says I, "Xury, we can slip our cable with the buoy
to it and go off to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had
no sooner said so but I perceived the creature (whatever
it was) within two oars' length, which something sur-
prised me; however, I immediately stepped to the cabin
door, and taking up my gun, fired at him; upon which he
immediately turned about and swam towards the shore
a am.

gBut it is impossible to describe the horrible noises and
hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon
the edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon
the noise or report of the gun, a thing I have some reason
to believe those creatures had never heard before. This
convinced me that there was no going on shore for us in
the night upon that coast; and how to venture on shore in
the day was another question too; for to have fallen into
the hands of any of the savages had been as bad as to have
fallen into the hands of lions and tigers; at least we were
equally apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water for we had not a pint left
in the boat; when or where to get to it was the point.
Xury said if I would let him go on shore with one of the
jars, he would find if there was any water and bring some
to me. I asked him why he would go? Why I should not
go and he stay in the boat? They boy answered with so
much afiection that made me love him ever after. Says he,
"If wild mans come, they eat me, you go wey." "Well,
Xury," said I, "we will both go, and if the wild mans
come, we will kill them; they shall eat neither of us"; so I
gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat and a dram out of
our patron's case of bottles which I mentioned before; and
we haled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded on shore, carrying nothing but our
arms and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the
boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it; and by and by I saw him come running
towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage
or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran forward to-
wards him to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I
saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a
creature that he had shot, like a hare, but different in
color and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it,
and it was very good meat; but the great joy that poor
Xury came with was to tell me he had found good water}
and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where we
were, we found the water fresh when the tide was out,
which flowed but a little way up; so we filled our jars and'
feasted on the bare we had killed, and prepared to go on
our way, having seen no footsteps of any human creature
in that part of the country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew
very well that the islands of the Canaries and the Cape de
Verde Islands also lay not far off from the coast. But as I
had no instruments to take an observation to know what
latitude we were in and did not exactly know or at least
remember what latitude they were in, I knew not where
to look for them or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I might now easily have found some of these
islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast
till I came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was must be that country, which lying between the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste
and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the Negroes hav-
ing abandoned it and gone farther south for. fear of the
Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting by
reason of its barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it be-
cause of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbor there; so that
the Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like
an army, two or three thousand men at a time; and indeed
for near an hundred miles together upon this coast, we
saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day and
heard nothing but howlings and roarings of wild beasts
by night.

Once or twice in the daytime, I thought I saw the Pic?
of Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain Tenerilfe
in the Canan'es; and had a great mind to venture out, in
hopes of reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was
forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too
high for my little vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first
design and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular, being
early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a little
point of land which was pretty high, and the tide begin-
ning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes
were more about him than it seems mine were, calls softly
to me and tells me that we had best go farther off the
shore. "For," says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful monster
on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked where
he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was
a terrible great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under
the shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were a little
over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xury looked frightened, and said, "Me kill; he eat
me at one mouth"; one mouthful he meant. However, I '
said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still, and I took
our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and
loaded it with a good charge of powder and with two
slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces, I
loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I
could with the first piece to have shot him into the head,'.
but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose,
that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke the
bone. He started up growling at first, but finding his leg
broke, fell down again, and then got up upon three legs
and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was
a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head; how-
ever, I took up the second piece immediately and though
he began to move off fired again, and shot him into the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop and make but
little noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took
heart, and would have me let him go on shore. "Well, go,'
said I, so the boy jumped into the water and, taking a
little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other hand
and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the
piece to his ear and shot him into the head again, which
dispatched him quite.

This was game indeed 'to us but this was no food; and~
I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. However,
Xury said he would have some of him; so he comes on
board and asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what,
Xury?" said I. "Me cut 0E his head," said he. However,
Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut oil a foot and
brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.

'I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other he of some value to us; and I
resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I went
to work with him; but Xury was much the better work-
man at it for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took.
us both the whole day, but at last we got off the hide of
him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun ef-
fectually dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.

After this stop we made on to the southward con-
.tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on our
provisions, which began to abate very much, and going no
oftener in to the shore than we were obliged to for fresh
Awater; my design in this was to make the river Gambia or
'-. Senegal, that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de
Verde, where I was in hopes to meet with some European
ship, and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to
take, but to seek out for the islands, or perish there among
the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe which
sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil or to the
East Indies made this cape or those islands; and in a word,
I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point,
either that I must meet with some ship or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was in-
habited, and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we could
also perceive they were quite black and stark naked. I
was once inclined to ha' gone on shore to them; but Xury
was my better counsellor and said to me, "No go, no go."
However, I haled in nearer the shore that I might talk to
them, and I found they run along the shore by me a good
way. I observed they had no weapons in their hands,
except one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury
said was a lance, and that they would throw them a great
way with good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked
with them by signs as well as I could, and particularly
made signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me to
stop my boat, and that they would fetch me some meat;
upon this I lowered the top of my sail and lay by, and two
of them 'run up into the country, and in less than half an
hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of
dry flesh and 'some corn, such as is the produce of their
country, but we neither knew what the one or the other
was; however, we were willing to accept it, but how to
come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ventur-
ing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of
us; but they took a safe way for us all, for they brought
it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood a
great way off till we fetched it on board and then came
close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity offered that
very instant to oblige them wonderfully, for while we
were lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one
pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury from
the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in
rage, we could not tell, any more than we could tell
whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it was the
latter; because in the first place, those ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and in the second place,
we found the people terribly frighted; especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly
from them, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures
ran directly into the water, they did not seem to offer to
fall upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves
into the sea and swam about, as if they had come for their
diversion; at last one of them began to come nearer our
boat than at first I expected; but I lay ready for him, for
I had loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and
bade Xury load both the other; as soon as he came fairly
within my reach, I fired and shot him directly into the
head; immediately he sunk down into the water, but rose
instantly and plunged up and down as if he was sin-ug-
gling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made
to the shore; but between the wound, which was his
mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just
before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun; some
of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as
dead with very terror. But when they saw the creature
dead and sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them
to come to the shore, they took heart and came to the
shore, and began to search for the creature. I found him
by his blood staining the water, and by the help of a rope
which I flung round him and gave the Negroes to haul,
they dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most
curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree,
and the Negroes held up their hands with admiration to
think what it was I had killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and
the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly
to the mountains from whence they came, nor could I at
that distance know what it was. I found quickly the
Negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I
was willing to have them take it as a favor from me,
which, when I made signs to them that they might take
him, they were very thankful for. Immediately they fell
to work with him, and though they had no knife, yet with
a sharpened piece of wood they took 01f his skin as readily
and much more readily than we could have done with a
knife; they offered me some of the flesh, which I de-
clined, making as if I would give it them, but made signs
for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provision, which thOugh I

| did not understand, yet I accepted; then I made signs to
l them f some watt-3%? held out one of my jars to them,
; \turfiing it o m up 'd, to show that it was empty, and
I that I wanted to have it filled. They called immediately
to some of their friends, and there came two women and
brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt as I sup-
pose in the sun; this they set down for me as before, and I
sent Xury on shore with my jars and filled them all three.
The women were as stark naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it wa
and water, and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made for
ward for about eleven days more without offering to go
near the shore, till I saw the land run out a great length
into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues
before me, and the sea being very calm, I kept a large
oiling to make this point; at length, doubling the point at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on
the other side, to seaward; then I concluded, as it was
most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verde and
those the islands, called from thence Cape de Verde
Islands. However, they were at a great distance, and I
could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should
be taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one
or other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into
the cabin and sat me down, Xury having the helm, when
on a sudden the boy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with l
a sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, 5
thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent
_to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out
of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately
saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz., that it was
a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I observed the
course she steered, I was soon convinced they were bound
some other way, and did not design to come any nearer
to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as much as
I could, resolving to speak with them, if possible. .

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but that they would be gone by
before I could make any signal to them; but after I had
crowded to the utmost and began to despair, they, it
seems, saw me by the help of their perspective-glasses,
and that it was some European boat, which as they sup-
posed must belong to some ship that was lost, so they
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with
this, and as I had my patron's ancient on board, I made a
waft of it to them for a signal of distress, and fired a gun,
both which they saw, for they told me they saw the
smoke, though they did not hear the gun; upon these
signals they very kindly brought to and lay by for me,
and in about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was in Portuguese and in
Spanish and in French, but I understood none of them;
but at last a Scots sailor who was on board called to me,
, and I answered him and told him I was an Englishman,
2 that I had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors,
' at Sallee; then they bade me come on board and very
kindly took me in and all my goods.

I Came to the Brazils

 

IT WAS an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will be-
lieve, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as I was
in, and I immediately offered all I had to the captain of
the ship as a return for my deliverance; but he gener-
ously told me he would take nothing from me, but that all
I had should be delivered safe to me when I came to the
Brazils. "For," says he, "I have saved your life on no other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself, and it may
one time or other be my lot to be taken up in the same
condition; besides," said he, "when I carry you to the
Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if I should
take from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then I only take away that life I have given. No, no,
Seignior Inglese," says be [Mr. Englishman], "I will carry
you thither in charity, and those things will help you to

-m-I CAME TO THE BRAZILS 37

buy your subsistence there and your passage home again."

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in
the performance to a tittle, for he ordered the seamen
that none should ofier to touch anything I had; then he
took everything into his own possession and gave me back
an exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even
so much as my three earthen jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw
and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use and
asked me what I would have for it. I told him he had been
so generous to me in everything that I could not offer to
make any price of the boat but left it entirely to him, upon
which he told me he would give me a note of his hand
to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil, and when
it came there, if anyone offered to give more, he would
make it up; he offered me also sixty pieces of eight more
for my boy Xury, which I was loath to take, not that I was
not willing to let the captain have him but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty who had assisted me so
faithfully in procuring my own. However, when I let him
know my reason, he owned it to be just and offered me
this medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to
set him free in ten years if he turned Christian; upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the
captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils and arrived\
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about
twenty-two days after. And now I was once more de-
livered from the most miserable of all conditions of life,
and what to do next with myself I was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember; he would take nothing of me for
my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin,
and forty for the lion's skin which I had in my boat, and
caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually de'
livered me; and what I was willing to sell he bought,
such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of
the lump of beeswax, for I had made candles of the rest; .
in a word, I made about 220 pieces of eight of all my'
cargo, and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, but being recommended to
the house of a good honest man like himself, who had an
ingenio as they call it, that is, a plantation and a sugar-
( house, I lived with him some time and acquainted myself
by that means with the manner of their planting and mak-
1 ing of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived and
' how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them,
resolving in the meantime to find out some way to get my
money which I had left in London remitted to me. To
this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my money
would reach and formed a plan for my lantafion and'
settlement, and such a one as might be gifteble to the f
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of 2
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much '
such circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor,
because his plantation lay next to mine and we went on
very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well as
his; and we rather planted for food than anything else
for about two years. However, we began to increase, and
our land began to come into order; so that the third year
we planted some tobacco and made each of us a large
piece of ground ready for planting canes in the year to
come; but we both wanted help and now I found, more
than before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy
Xury.

But alasl for me to do wrong that never did right was no
great wonder: I had no remedy but to go on; I was gotten
into an employment quite remote to my genius and di-
rectly contrary to the life I delighted in and for which
I forsook my father's house, and broke through all his
good advices; nay, I was coming into the very middle
station, or upper degree of low life, which my father ad-
vised me to before and which, if I resolved to go on with,
I might as well ha' stayed at home and never have fa-
tigued myself in the world as I had done; and I used often
to say to myself, I could ha' done this as well in England
among my friends as ha' gone 5000 miles off to do it
among strangers and savages in a wilderness, and at such
a distance as never to hear from any part of the world
that had the least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with but now
and then this neighbor; no work to be done, but by the
labor of my hands; and I used to say, I lived just like a
man cast away upon some desolate island that had no-
body there but himself. But how just has it been, and
how should all men reflect, that when they compare their
present conditions with others that are worse, Heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange and be convinced
of their former felicity by their experience; I say, how
just has it been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on
in an island of mere desolation should be my lot, who had
so often unjustly compared it with the life which I then
led, in which had I continued, .I had in all probability
been exceeding prosperous and rich.

I was in some degree settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain
of the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship
remained there in providing his loading, and preparing
for his voyage, near three months; when, telling him what\
little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice. "Seignior Inglese," says
he, for so he always called me, "if you will give me letters,
and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the
person who has your money in London, to send your ef-
fects to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in
such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring you
the produce of them, God willing, at my return; but since
human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I
would have you give orders but for one hundred pounds
sterling, which you say is half your stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that if it come safe, you may
order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may
have the other half to have recourse to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice and looked so friendly
that I could not but be convinced it was the best course
I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gen-
tlewoman with whom I had left my money and a procura-
tion to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of
all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met
with the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his be-
havior and in what condition I was now in, with all other
necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest
captain came to Lisbon, he found means by some of the
English merchants there to send over nor the order only,
but a full account of my story to a merchant at London,
who represented it effectually to her; whereupon she not
only delivered the money but out of her own pocket sent
the Portugal captain a very handsome present for his
humanity and charity to me.

' The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods, such as the captain had writ for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all g
safe to me to the Brazils; among which, without my direc- 5'
tion (for I was too young in my business to think off
them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron--l
work and utensils necessary for my plantation, and which
were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortunes made,
for I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the captain, had laid out the five pounds which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself to purr
chase and bring me over a servant under bond for six
years' service, and would not accept of any considerafionl
except a little tobacco which I would have him accept,
being of my own produce.

Neither was this all; but my goods being all English
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things par-
ticularly valuable and desirable in the country, I found
means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I
might say I had more than four times the value of my first
cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor,
I mean in the advancement of my plantation; for the first
thing I did, I bought me a Negro slave and an European(
servant also; I mean another besides that which the cap-
tain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went
on the next year with great success in my plantation. I.
raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own ground,
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my
neighbors; and these fifty rolls, being each of above a
hundredweight, were well cured and laid by against the
return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now increasing in
business and in wealth, my head began to be full of\
projects and undertakings beyond my reach; such as are
indeed often the ruin of the best heads in business.

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me,
for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet,
retired life, and of which he had so sensibly described
the middle station of life to be full of; but other things
attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all
my own miseries; and particularly to increase my fault
and double the reflections upon myself, which in my
future sorrows I should have leisure to make; all these
miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate
adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad
and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects and those measures of life
which Nature and Providence concurred to present me
with and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now but I must go and
leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriving
man in my new plantation only to pursue a rash and im-
moderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the
thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into
the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into,
or perhaps would be consistent with life and a state of
health in the world.

To come then, by the just degrees, to the particulars of
this part of my story; you may suppose that, having now
'lived almost\ four years in the Brazils and beginning to
thrive and prcTsperVaTy/well upon my plantation, I had
not only learned the language, but had contracted ac-
quaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, as
well as among the merchants at St. Salvadore, which was
our port; and that in my discourses among them, I had
frequently given them an account of my two voyages to

gthe coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
'i Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the
coast, for trifles, such as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like, not only gold dust,Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc., but Negroes for the/
service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my discourses
on these heads, but especially to that part which related
to the buying Negroes, which was a trade at that time
not only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had
been carried on by the assientos, or permission of the
kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public,
so that few Negroes were brought, and those excessive
dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of my acquaintance and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to me the next
morning and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them of, the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me; and after
enjoining me secrecy, they told me that they had a mind
to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they hadrall planta-
tions as well as I, and were straitened for nothing so much
as servants; that as it was a trade that could not be carried
on, because they could not publicly sell the Negroes
when they came home, so they desired to make but one
voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and di-
vide them among their own plantations; and in a word,
the question was whether I would go their supercargo in .
the ship to manage the trading part upon the coast of
Guinea; and they oflered me that I should have my equal
3 share of the Negroes without providing any part of the -
stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it'
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after which was in a fair
way of coming to be very considerable and with a good
stock upon it. But for me that was thus entered and estab-lished and had nothing to do but go on as I had begun

for three or four years more, and to have sent for the other
hundred pound from England, and who in that time, and
with that little addifion, could scarce ha' failed of being
worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that
increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage was the
most preposterous thing that ever man in such circum-
stances could be guilty of.

But I that was born to be my own destroyer could no
more resist the offer than I could restrain my first ram-
bling designs, when my father's good counsel was lost
upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with all my
heart, if they would undertake to look after my planta-
tion in my absence and would dispose of it to such as I
should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do,
and entered into writings or covenants to do so; and I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and ef-
_ fects, in case of my death, making the captain of the ship
5. that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir, but
.' obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed
' in my will, one half of the produce being to himself and
the other to be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my ef-
fects and keep up my plantation; had I used half as much
prudence to have looked into my own interest and have
made a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to
have done, I had certainly never gone away from so
prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable views
of a thriving circumstance and gone upon a voyage to sea,
attended with all its common hazards; to say nothing of
the reasons I-had to expect particular misfortunes to my-
self.

But I was hurried on and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my fancy rather than my reason; and accordingly, the
ship being fitted out and the cargo furnished, and allTHE TERROR or THE STORM 4 5

things done as by agreement by my partners in the
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the 1st of Septem.-,1
ber, 1659, being the same day eight years that I went from
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel
to their authority and the fool to my own interest.

The Terror of the Storm

 

OUR SHIP was about 120 ton burden, carried six guns
and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and my-
self; we had on board no large cargo of goods, except of
such toys as were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such
as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd h'ifles, especially
little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the
like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with design
to stretch over for the African coast, when they came
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which
it seems was the manner of their course in those days.
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the
1 way upon our own coast till we came the height of Cape
St. Augustino, from whence keeping farther off at sea,
we lost sight of land and steered as if we were bound for
the Isle Femand de Noronha, holding our course north-
east by north, and leaving those isles on the east; in this
course we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and
were by our last observation in seven degrees twenty-two
minutes northern latitude, when a violent tornado or hur-
ricane took us quite out of our knowledge; it began from
the southeast, came about to the northwest, and then
settled into the northeast, from whence it blew in such
a terrible manner that for twelve days together we could
do nothing but drive and, scudding away before it, let it.
carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the winds di-
rected; and during these twelve- days, I need not say,
that I expected every day to be swallowed up, nor indeed
did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm),
one of our men died of the calenture, and one man and'
the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the
weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven
degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two de-
grees of longitude difference west from Cape St. Augus-
tino; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of
Guinea, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazones, toward that of the river Oronoque, commonly
called the Great River, and began to consult with me
what course he should take, for the ship was leaky and
very much disabled and he was going directly back to 3'
the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that, and looking over the
charts of the seacoast of America with him, we concluded
there was no inhabited country for us to have recourse
to till we came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands
and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbados, which
by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft of the Bay or-
Culf of Mexico, we might easily perform, as we hoped,
in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not pos-
sibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa without some
assistance, both to our ship and to ourselves.

With this design we changed our course and steered
away northwest by west in order to reach some of our
English islands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage
was otherwise determined, for being in the latitude of
twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came
up0n us, which carried us away with the same irnpetuosity
westward and drove us so out of the very way of all
human commerce, that had all our lives been saved as to
the sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured by
savages than ever returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of our men early in the morning cried out, "Land!" and
we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out in
hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were but the
ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion}
being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner
that we expected we should all have perished immedi-
ately, and we were immediately driven into our close
quarters to shelter us from the very foam and spray of
the sea.

It is not easy for anyone who has not been in the like
condition to describe or conceive the constemation of
men in such circumstances; we knew nothing where we
were or upon what land it was we were driven, whether
an island or the main, whether inhabited or not in-
habited; and as the rage of the wind was still great,
though rather less than at first, we could not so much as
hope to have the ship hold many minutes without break-
ing in pieces unless the winds by a kind of miracle should
turn immediately about. In a word, we sat looking one
upon another and expecting death every moment, and
every man acting accordingly, as preparing for another
world, for there was little or nothing more for us to do in
this; that which was our present comfort and all the com-
fort we had was, that contrary to our expectation, the
ship did not break yet and that the master said the wind
began to abate.

Now though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and
sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were
in a dreadful condition indeed and had nothing to do but
to think of saving our lives as well as we could; we had a
boat at our stern just before the storm, but she was first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in the
next place she broke away and either sunk or was driven
0E to sea, so there was no hope from her; we had another
boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful thing; however, there was no room to debate,
for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every
minute, and some told us she was actually broken already.
V In this distress the mate of our vessel lays hold of the

. boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got

dig/slung over the ship's side and, getting all into her, let
go and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to
God's mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was
abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon
the shore, and might well be called den wild zee, as the
Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all
saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could
not live and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none; nor, if we had, could we ha'
done anything with it; so we worked at the oar towards
the land, though with heavy hearts, like men going to
execution; for we all knew that when the boat came
nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand
pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we committed
our souls to God in the most earnest manner, and the
wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our de-
struction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could
towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was
if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth
of some river, where by great chance we might have run
our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps
made smooth water. But there was nothing of this ap-
peared; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the
land leoked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astem of us and plainly bade us expect
the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with such a fury
that it overset the boat at once; and separating us, as well
from the boat as from one another, gave us not time .
hardly to say, "0 God!" for we were all swallowed up in -
a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I
felt when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very
well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as
to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather
carried me, a vast way on towards the shore and having
spent itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost
dry but half dead with the water I took in. I had so much
presence of mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my
feet, and endeavored to make on towards the land as fast
as I could, before another wave should return and take
me up again. But I soon found it was impossible to avoid
it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great
hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no means or
strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath and raise myself upon the water, if I could; and so
by swimming to preserve my breathing and pilot myself
towards the shore, if possible; my greatest concern now
being that the sea, as it would carry me a great way to-
wards the shore when it came on, might not carry me
back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could
feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness to~
wards the shore a very great way; but I held my breath}
and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my:
might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,

when, as I felt myself rising up, so to my immediate re-

lief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the sur-

face of the water; and though it was not two seconds of

time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me

greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was covered

again with water a good while, but not so long but I

held it out; and finding the water had spent itself and

began to return, I struck forward against the return of

the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood

still a few moments to recover breath, and till the water

went from me, and then took to my heels, and run with

what strength I had farther towards the shore. But

neither would this deliver me from the fury of the sea,

which came pouring in after me again, and twice more

I was lifted up by the waves, and carried forwards as be-

fore, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to
me; for the sea, having hurried me along as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and
that with such force as it left me senseless, and indeed
helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow, taking
my side and breast, beat the breath as it were quite out
of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I
must have been strangled in the water; but I recovered
a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I should
be covered again with the water, I resolved to hold fast
by a piece of the rock and so to hold my breath, if pos-
sible, till the wave went back; now as the waves were not
so high as at first, being near land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which
brought me so near the shore that the next wave, though
it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carryA DREADFUL DELIVERANCE 5]:

me away, and the next run I took, I got to the mainland,
where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the clifts of
the shore and sat me down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

A Dreadful Deliverance

I WAS now landed and safe on shore, and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved in a case
wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room
to hope. I believe it is impossible to express to the life
what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are when it
is so saved, as I may say, out of the very grave; and I do
not wonder now at that custom, viz., that when a male-
factor who has the halter about his neck is tied up and
just going to be turned off; and has a reprieve brought
to him: I say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon
with it, to let him blood that very moment they tell him
of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits
from the heart, and overwhelm him:

For sudden joys, like griefs, Confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and
my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contempla-
tion of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures and
motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon all my

comrades that were drowned and that there should not

be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never
saw them afterwards or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap and two shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it
lay so far off, and considered, Lord! how was it possible
I could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me to see what
kind of place -I was in, and what was next to be done,
and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word,
I had a dreadful deliverance. For I was wet, had no
clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink
to comfort me, neither did I see any prospect before me
but that of perishing with hunger or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particular afflicting to
me was that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any
creatures for my sustenance or to defend myself against
any other creature that might desire to kill me for theirs.
In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe and a little tobacco in a box; this was all my pro-
vision, and this threw me into terrible agonies of mind
that for a while I run about like a madman; night coming
upon me, I began with a heavy heart to consider what
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for
their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time
was to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but
thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit
all night, and consider the next day what death I should
die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life; I walked about
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh
water to drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having
drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, en-
deavored to place myself so as that if I should sleep I
might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging, and
having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and
slept as comfortably as, I believe, few could have done
in my condition, and found myself the most refreshed
with it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell
as before. But that which surprised me most was that the
ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she'
lay by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost
as far as the rock which I first mentioned, where I had
been so bruised by the dashing me against it; this being
within about a mile from the shore where I was and the
ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that, at least, I might save some necessary things
for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her up
upon the land, abOut two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to
her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and
the boat, which was about half a mile broad, so I came
back for the present, being more intent upon getting at
the ship, where I hoped to find something for my present
subsistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm and the
tide ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter
of a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing
of my grief, for I saw evidently that if we had kept on
board, we had been all safe, that is to say, we had all got
safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to he
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I
now was; this forced tears from my eyes again, but as
there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get
to the ship; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather.
was hot to extremity, and took the water; but when I
,1 came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to know

a how to get on board, for as she lay aground, and high out

i of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of; I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did
not see at first, hang down by the fore-chain so low as that
with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of
that rope got up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I
found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of
water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side of a
bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay
lifted up upon the bank and her head low almost to the
water; by this means all her quarter was free, and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my first
work was to search and to see what was spoiled and what
was free; and first I found that all the ship's provisions
were dry and untouched by the water, and being very
well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled
my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about other
things, for I had no time to lose; I also found some rum
in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and
which I had indeed enough of to spirit me for what was
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish
myself with many things which I foresaw would be very,
necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be
had, and this extremity roused my application; we had
several spare yards and two or three large spars of wood
and a spare top mast or two in the ship; I resolved to fall
to work with these and flung as many of them overboard
as I could manage'for their weight, tying every one with a
rope that they might not drive away; when this was done
I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I
tied four of them fast together at both ends as well as I
could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or three short
pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I could
walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any great weight, the pieces being too light; so I went to
work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare top mast
into three lengths and added them to my raft, with a
great deal of labor and pains; but hope of furnishing my-
self with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what
I should have been able to have done upon another oco
casron.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight; my next care was what to load it with and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but
I was not long considering this; I first laid all the planks
or boards upon it that I could get, and having considered
well what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's
chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and low-
ered them down upon my raft; the first of these I filled
with provision, viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses,
five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much
upon, and a little remainder of European corn which had
been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea
with us, but the fowls were killed; there had been some
barley and wheat together, but, to my great disappoint-
ment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or
spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases of
bottles belonging to our skipper in which were some
cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons of rack;
these I stowed' by themselves, there being no need to put
them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I was
doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very
calm, and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, -
and waistcoat, which I hadleft on shore upon the sand, _
swim away; as for my breeches, which were only linen,\
and open-kneed, I swam on board in them, and my stock-
ings. However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes,
of which I found enough but took no more than I wanted
for present use, for I had other things which my eye was
more upon, as first, tools to work with on shore; and it was
after long searching that I found out the carpenter's
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship-loading of gold would
have been at that time; I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it for I
knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms;
there were two very good fowling pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first, with some
powder-homs, and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords; I knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water; those two I got
to my raft with the arms, and now I thought myself
pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, or rudder;
and the least capful of wind would have overset all my
navigation.

I had three encouragements: 1. A smooth, calm sea. 2.
The tide rising and setting in to the shore. 3. What little
wind there was blew me towards the land; and thus, hav-
ing found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat,
and besides the tools which were in the chest, I found
two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this cargo I
put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft went very
well, only that I found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before, by which I perceived
that there was some indraft of the water, and conse-
quently I hoped to find some creek or river there which I

might make use of as a port to get to land with my
cargo.
As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me a}
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current
of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I )
could to keep in the middle of the stream. But here I had
like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had,
I think verily would have broke my heart, for knowing
nothing of the coast, my raft run aground at one end of it
upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it
wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off
towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen into the
water. I did my utmost by setting my back against the
chests to keep them in their places, but could not thrust
off the raft with all my strength, neither durst I stir from
the posture I was in, but holding up the chests with all
my might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in
which time the rising of the water brought me a little
more upon a level; and a little after, the water still rising,
my raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar
I had into the channel and then driving up higher, I at
length found myself in the mouth of a little river, with
land on both sides, and a strong current or tide running
up; I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to
shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the
river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea and there-
fore resolved to place myself as near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of th
creek, to which with great pain and difficulty I guided
my raft and at last got so near as that, reaching ground, -
with my car, I could thrust her directly in; but here I
had like to have dipped all my cargo in the sea again;
for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping,
there was no place to land, but where one end of my
float, if it run onshore, would lie so high and the other
sink lower as before, that it would endanger my cargo
again. All that I cauld do was to wait till the tide was at
the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an anchor
to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of
ground, which I expected the water would flow over; and
so it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft
drew about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat
piece of ground and there fastened or moored her by
sticking my two broken oars into the ground, one on one
side near one end, and one on the other side near the
other end; and thus I lay till the water ebbed away and
left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation and where to stow my
goods to secure them from whatever might happen;
where I was I yet knew not, whether on the continent or
on an island, whether inhabited or not inhabited, whether
in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a hill not above
a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high, and
which seemed to overtop some other hills which lay as in
a ridge from it, northward; I took out one of the fowling
pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn of powder, and
thus armed, I traveled for discovery up to the top of that.
hill, where, after I had with great labor and difficulty got;
to the top, I saw my fate to my great affliction, viz., that I
was in an island environed every way with the sea, noifi','
land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way'
off and two small islands less than this, which lay about: ,
three leagues to the west. '

I found also that the island I was in was barren and,
as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by
wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none, yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kind; neither
when I killed them could I tell what was fit for food, and
what not; at my coming back, I shot at a great bird which
I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a great wood. I
believe it was the first gun that had been fired there since
the creation of the world; 'I had no sooner fired but from
all the parts of the wood there arose an innumerable num<<
ber of fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming,
and crying every one according to his usual note; but not
one of them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature
I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its color and
beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws more than
common; its flesh was carrion and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took
me up the rest of that day, and what to do with myself at
night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest; for I was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some
wild beast might devour me, though, as I afterwards
found, there was really no need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore
and made a kind of a but for that night's lodging; as for
food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except
that I had seen two or' three creatures like hares run out
of the wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails and such
other things as might come to land, and I resolved to
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible;
and as I knew that the first storm that blew must neces-
sarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other
things apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I
could get; then I called a council, that is to say, in my
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft but this
appeared impracticable; so I resolved to go as before,
when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I shipped
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
checkered shirt and a pair of linen drawers and a pair of
pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a sec-
ond raft, and having had experience of the-first, I neither
made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I'
brought away several things very useful to me; as first, in
the carpenter's stores I. found two or three bags full of
nails and spikes, a great screwjack, a dozen or two of
hatchets and, above all, that most useful thing called a
grindstone; all these I secured together, with several
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three
iron crows and two barrels of musket bullets, seven
muskets and another fowling piece, with some small
quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot
and a great roll of sheet lead. But this last was so heavy,
I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I
could find, and a spare fore topsail, a hammock, and some
bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and
brought them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be de-
voured on shore; but when I came back, I found no sign
of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a wild cat
upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards it,
ran away a little distance, and then stood still; she sat
very composed and unconcerned and looked full in my
face as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I
presented my gun at her, but as she did not understand
it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she oEer
to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit,
though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled of it and ate it and looked (as pleased)
for more, but I thanked her and could spare no more; so
she marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder and 'bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks, I
went to work to make me a little tent with the sail and
some poles which I cut for that purpose, and into this
tent I brought everything that I knew w0uld spoil, either
with rain or sun, and I piled all the empty chests and
casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any
sudden attempt, either from man or beast.

When I had done this I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within and an empty chest set up on
end without, and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head and my
gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and
slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and
heavy, for the night before I had slept little and had la-
bored very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things
from the ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe, for one man, but I was not satisfied .
still; for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get everything out of her that I could;
so every day at low water I went on board, and brought
away something or other. But particularly the third time
I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as I
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could
get, with a piece of spare canvas, which was to mend the
sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In
a word, I brought away all the sails first and last, only
that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much
at a time as I could; for they were no more useful to be
sails but as mere canvas only. '

' But that which comforted me more still was that at last
of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these,
and thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship
that was worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I
found a great hogshead of bread, and three large runlets
of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine
flour; this was surprising to me, because I had given over
expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled
by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread,
and wrapped it up parcel by parcel in pieces of the sails,
which I cut out; and in a word, I got all this safe on shore
also.

The next day I made another voyage; and now having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand
out, I began with the cables; and cutting the great cable
into pieces such as I could move, I got two cables and a
hawser on shore, with all the ironwork I could get; and
having cut down the spritsail yard, and the mizzen yard,
and everything I could to make a large raft, I loaded it
with all those heavy goods, and came away.

But my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft
was so unwieldy and so over-loaden, that after I was en-
tered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my
goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water; as for myself it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I expected would have been of
great use to me. However, when the tide was out, I got
most of the pieces of cable ashore,.and some of the iron,
though with infinite labor; for I was fain to dip for it into
the water, a work-which fatigued me very much. After

this I went every day on board, and brought away what
I could get. '

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had bee k":
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I ha

l
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily, had
the calm weather held, I should have brought away the
whole ship piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth time
to go on board, I found the wind begin to rise; however,
at low water I went on board, and though I thought I had
rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing more
could be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers
in it, in one of which I found two or three razors and one
pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good
knives and forks; in another I found about thirty~six
pounds value in money, some European coin, some
Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "0 drug!" ")
said I aloud, "what art thou good for? Thou art not worth /
to me, no, not the taking off of the ground; one of those 1"
knives is worth all this heap; I have no manner of use for !
thee; e'en remain where thou art and go to the bottom as '-
a creature whose life is not worth saving." However, '
upon second thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all f
this in a piece of canvas, I began to think of making and-,3
other raft; but while I was preparing this, I mund the sky \
overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of \
an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore; it presently
occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a
raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my business
to be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I
might not be able to reach the shore at all.

Accordingly I let myself down into the water and swam
across the channel, which lay between the ship and the
sands, and even that with difficulty enough, partly with
the weight of the things I had about me, and partly the
roughness of the water, for the wind rose very hastily;
and before it was quite high water, it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very
hard all that night, and in the morning, when I looked
out, behold, no more ship was to be seen; I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this safisfactory re-
flection, viz., that I had lost no time, nor abated no dili-
gence to get everything out of her that could be useful to
me, and that indeed there was little left in her that I was
able to bring away if I had had more time.

Securing Myself Against Savages
and Wild Beasts

 

I NOW gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
anything out of her, except what might drive on shore
from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards
did; but those things were of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about secur-
ing myself against either savages, if any should appear,
or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many
thoughts of the method how to do this and what kind of
dwelling to make, whether I should make me a cave in
the earth or a tent upon the earth. And, in short, I re-
solved upon both, the manner and description of which
it may not be improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low moorish
ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whole-
some, and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it, so I resolved to find a more healthy and
more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I
found would be proper for me: first, health and fresh
water, I just now mentioned; secondly, shelter from the
heat of the sun; thirdly, security from ravenous creatures,SECURING MYSELF AGAINST SAVAGES 6 5'

whether men or beasts; fourthly, a view to the sea, that
if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing
to banish all my expectation yet.

In search of a place proper for this I found a little plain ~
on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little
plain was steep as a house-side so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top; on the side of this rock
there was a hollow place worn a little way in like the
entrance or door of a cave, but there was not really any
cave, or way into the rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place,
I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above an
hundred yards broad and about twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door and at the end of it de-
scended irregularly every way down into the low grounds
by the seaside. It was on the north-northwest side of the
hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat every day, till
it came to a west and by south sun, or thereabouts, which
in those countries is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-
diameter from the rock and twenty yards in its diameter,
from its beginning and ending.

In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about five
foot and a half and sharpened on the top. The two rows
did not stand above six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows one upon another, within the
circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them,
about two foot and a half high, like a spur to a post; and
this fence was so strong that neither man nor beast could
get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labor, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them
to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top, which ladder,
when I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was com-
pletely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought, from all the
world, and consequently slept secure in the night, which
otherwise I could not have done, though, as it appeared
afterward, there was no need of all this caution from the
enemies that I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried
all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores,
of which you have the account above; and I made me a
large tent, which, to preserve me from the rains that in
one part of the year are very violent there, I made double,
viz., one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it,
and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin which
I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was in-
deed a very good one and belonged to the mate of the

Igto this tent I brought all my provisions and every
thing that would spoil by the wet, and having thus en-
* ' closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
'. now I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I said,
by a short ladder.

" When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug
down out through' my tent, I laid 'em up within my fence
in the nature of a terrace, that so it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave

just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my
house.
It cost me much labor and many days before all these
things were brought to perfection, and therefore 1 must
go back to some other things which took up some of my
thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had laid
my scheme for the setting up my tent and making the
cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud,
a sudden flash of lightning happened and after that a
great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it; I was
not so much surprised with the lightning as I was with a
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the light-
ning itself: 0 my powder! My very heart sunk within me
when I thought that at one blast all my powder might be
destroyed, on which not my defense only but the provid-
ing me food, as I thought, entirely depended; I was noth~
ing near so anxious about my own danger, though had the
powder took fire, I had never known who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me that after the
storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my building
and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and
boxes to separate the powder, and keep it a little and a
little in' a parcel, in hope that whatever might come it
might not all take fire at once, and to keep it so apart that
it should not be possible to make one part fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight, and I think my
powder, which in all was about 240 pounds' weight, was
divided in not less than a hundred parcels; as to the bar-
rel that had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger
from that, so I placed it in my new cave, which in my
fancy I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down
in holes among the rocks,.so that no wet might come to
it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
once at least every day with my gun, as well to divert
myself as to see if I could kill anything fit for food, and as
near as I could to acquaint myself with what the island
produced. The first time I went out I presently discovered
that there Were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with this mis-
fortune to me, viz., that they were so shy, so subtile, and
so swift of foot that it was the difficultest thing in the
World to come at them. But I was not discouraged at this,
not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as it
soon happened, for after I had found their haunts a little,
I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they
saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks,
they would run away as in a terrible fright; but if they
were feeding in the valleys and I was upon the rocks, they
took no notice of me, from whence I concluded that, by
the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward that they did not readily see objects that were
above them; so afterward I took this method, I always
climbed the rocks first to get above them and then had
frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among these
creatures, I killed a she-goat which had a little kid by her
which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her till
I came and took her up, and not only so, but when I car-
ried the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid fol-
lowed me quite to my enclosure, upon which I laid down
the dam and took the kid in my arms and carried it over
my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame, but it would
not eat, so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself. These
two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I ate spar-
ingly, and saved my provisions (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could.

Having now fiXed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in and fuel to
burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full
account of in its place. But I must first give some little
account of myself and of my thoughts about living, which
it may well be supposed were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition, for as I was
not cast away upon that island without being driven, as is
said, by a violent storm quite out of the course of our
intended voyage and a great way, viz., some hundreds
of leagues out of the ordinary c0urse of the trade of man-
kind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination
of Heaven that in this desolate place and in this desolate
manner I should end my life; the tears would run plenti-
fully down my face when I made'these reflections, and
sometimes I would expostulate with myself why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures and
render them so absolutely miserable, so without help
abandoned, so entirely depressed that it could hardly be
rational to be thankful for such a life.

But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts and to reprove me; and particularly one
day, walking with my gun in my hand by the seaside, I
was very pensive upon the subject of my present condi~
tion, when Reason, as it were, expostulated with me t'
other way, thus: "Well, you are in a desolate condition,
'tis true, but pray remember, where are the rest of you?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat? Where
are the ten? Why were not they saved and you lost? Why
were you singled out? Is it better to be here, or there?"
And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are to be consid-
ered with the good that is in them and with what worse
attends them.

Then it occurred to me again how well I was furnished
for my subsistence and what would have been my case if
it had not happened, which was an hundred thousand to
one, that the ship floated from the place where she first
struck and was driven so near to the shore that I had time

to get all these things out of her. What would have been
my case if I had been to have lived in the condition in
which I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life,
or necessaries to supply and procure them? 'Tarticu-
larly," said I aloud (though to myself), "what should I
ha' done without a gun, without ammunition, without any
tools to make anything or to work with, without clothes,
bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering?" and that
now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a
fair way to provide myself in such a manner as to live
without my gun when my ammunition was spent; so that
I had a tolerable view of subsisting without any want as
long as I lived; for I considered from the beginning how
I would provide for the accidents that might happen and
for the time that was to come, even not only after my
ammunition should be spent, but even after my health
or strength should decay.

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my am-
munition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder
being blown up by lightning, and this made the thoughts
of it so surprising to me when it lightened and thundered,
as I observed just now.

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of
a scene of silent life, such perhaps, as was never heard
of in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the
30th of September when, in the manner as above said, I
first set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun, being
to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my
head, for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the
latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the
line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books and pen and ink and should even forget
the Sabbath days from the working days; but to preventthis I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capital
letters, and making it into a great cross, I set it up on the
shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore here 0
the 30th of September 1659." Upon the sides of thi
square post I out every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe that among the
many things which I brought out of the ship in the sev-
eral voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I
got several things of less value, but not all less useful to
me, which I omitted setting down before; as in particular,
pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's and carpenter's keeping, three or four
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials, per-
spectives, charts, and books of navigation, all which I
huddled together, whether I might want them or no;
also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me in
my cargo from England, and which I had packed up
among my things; some Portuguese books also, and
among them two or three Popish prayer-books, and sev-
eral other books, all which I carefully secured. And I
must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two
cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to
say something in its place; for I carried both the cats
with me, and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of
himself and swam on shore to me the day after I went on
shore with my first cargo and was a trusty servant to med
many years; I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any company that he could make up to me; I only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that would not do. As I ob-
served before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I hus-
banded them to the utmost; and I shall show that while/

l

72 ROBINSON CRUSOE

my ink lasted, I kept things very exact, but after that was
gone, I could not, for I could not make any ink by any
means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together, and of
these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pickaxe, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that without
much difliculty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little pale, or surrounded habitation. The piles, or
stakes, which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a
long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and
more by far in bringing home, so that I spent sometimes
two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts
and a third day in driving it into the ground; for which
purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last
bethought myself of one of the iron crows, which, how-
ever, though I found it, yet it made driving those posts or
piles very laborious and tedious work.

But what need I ha' been concerned at the tediousness
of anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do
it in? Nor had I any other employment, if that had been
over, at least that I could foresee, except the ranging the

island to seek for food, which I did more or less every
day.

My Reason Began to Master My
Despondency

I NOW began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstance I was reduced to, and I drew up the stateREASON MASTERS DESPONDENCY 73

of my afiairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me, for I was like to have but few
heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon
them, and afflicting my mind; and as my reason began

now to master my despondency, I began to comfort my
self as well as I could and to set the good against the evil,
that I might have something to distinguish my case from

\

worse, and I stated it very impartially, like debtor and
creditor, the comforts I enjoyed, against the miseries I

suffered, thus:
Evil

I am cast upon a horrible
desolate island, void of all
hope of recovery.

I am singled out and
separated, as it were, from

all the world to be misera-
ble.

N4 -

I am divided from man-
kind, a solitaire, one ban--
ished from human society.

I have not clothes to
cover me.

I am without any de-
fense or means to resist any
violence of man or beast.

Good /

But I am alive, and not
drowned, as all my ship's
company was.

But I am singled out, too,
from all the ship's crew to
be spared from death; and
He that miraculously saved
me from death can deliver
me from this condition.

But I am not starved and
perishing on a barren
place, affording no suste-
nance.

But I am in a hot climate,
where if I had clothes I
could hardly wear them.

But I am cast on an is-
land, where I see no wild
beasts to hurt me, as I saw
on the coast of Africa. And
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?
Evil Good
I have no soul to speak But God wonderfully
to, or relieve me. sent the ship in near

enough to the shore that I
have gotten out so many
necessary things as will
either supply my wants, or
enable me to supply my-
self even as long as I live.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that
tnere was scarce any condition in the world so misera-
ble but there was something negative or something posi-
tive to be thankful for in it; and let this stand as a direc-
tion from the experience of the most miserable of all
conditions in this world, that we may always find in it
something to comfort ourselves from and to set in the
description of good and evil on the credit side of the
account.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition and given over looking out to sea to see if I
could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things, I began
to apply myself to accommodate my way of living and to
make things as easy to me as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables, but I might now rather call it a
wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs,
about two foot thick on the outside, and after some time,
I think it was a year and a half, I raised rafters from it
leaning to the rock and thatched or covered it with
boughs of trees and such things as I could get to keep
out the rain, which I found at some times of the year very
violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made he-
hind me. But I must observe, too, that at first this was a
confused heap of goods, which as they lay in no order,
so they took up all my place; I had no room to turn my-
self; so I set myself toenlarge my cave and works farther
into the earth, for it was a loose sandy rock, which yielded
easily to the labor I bestowed on it; and so, when I found
I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways
to the right hand into the rock, and then turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made me a door to
come out on the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a
back way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me
room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such 11
sary things as I found I most wanted, as particularly a
chair and a table, for without these I was not able to
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I could not
write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure
without a table.

So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that

as reason is Woe and original of the mathe-
matics, so by stating and squaring everything by reason
and by making the most rational judgment of things,
every man may be in time master of every mechanic art.
I had never handled a tool in my life, and yet in time, by
labor, application, and contrivance, I found at last that
I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially if
I had had tools; however, I made abundance of things,
even without tools, and some with no more tools than an
adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that
way before, and that with infinite labor. For example, if
I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a
tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
side with my axe, till I had brought it to be thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by
this method I could make but one board out of a whole
tree, but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more
than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labor
which it took me up to make a plank or board. But my
time or labor was little worth, and so it was as well em-
ployed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place, and this I did out of the shore
pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship.
But when I had wrought out some boards, as above, I
made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half
one over another, all along one side of my cave, to lay all
my tools, nails, and ironwork, and, in a word, to separate
everything at large in their places, that I might come
easily at them; I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock

0 hang my guns and all things that would hang up.

So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a
general magazine of all necessary things, and I had every-
thing so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to
me to see all my goods in such order and especially to
find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of every

,Aday's employment; for, indeed, at first, misinjoo'much

hurry, and not only hurry as to labor, but in too much
discomposure of mind; and my journal would have been
full of many dull things. For example, I must have said
thus:

. September the 80th. After I got to shore and had
escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to God for
my deliverance, having first vomited with the great quan-
tity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach and
recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore, wringing
my hands and beating my head and face, exclaiming atTHE JOURNAL V 77

my misery and crying out I was undone, undone, fill,
tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the ground to '
repose, but durst not sleep, for fear of being devoured.

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I could not
forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain and
looking out to sea in hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy
at a vast distance I spied a sail, please myself with the
hopes of it and then, after looking steadily till I was al-
most blind, lose it quite and sit down and weep like a
child, and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things in some measure,
and having settled my household stuff and habitation,
made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome about
me as I could, I began to keep my journal, of which I
shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told all
these particulars over again) as long as it lasted, for hav-
ing no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.

The Journal

 

September 30, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in
the oiling, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate is-

land, which I ed "the Island of De air," all the r
of the ship's company mg owned an myse almost
dead. '

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., I had
neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to fly to,
and in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death be-
fore me, either that I should be devoured by wild. beasts,
murdered by savages, or starved to death for want of
food. At the approach of night, I slept in a tree for fear
of wild creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained all
ni ht.

g October 1. In the morning I saw to my great sur-
prise the ship had floated with the high tide and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island, which, as
it was some comfort on one hand, for seeing her sit up-
right and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind
abated, I might get on board and get some food and
necessaries out of her for my relief; so on the other hand,
it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I
imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might have saved
the ship or at least that they would not have been all
drowned as they were; and that had the men been saved,
we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins of
the ship, to have carried us to some other part of the
world. I spent great part of this day in perplexing myself
on these things; but at length seeing the ship almost dry,
I went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam
on board; this day also it continued raining, though with
no wind at all.

From the lst of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I
could out of the ship, which I brought on shore, every
tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days,
though with some intervals of fair weather. But, it seems,
this was the rainy season.

October 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods
I had got upon it, but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the
tide was out.

October 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in
pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and
that only at low water. I spent this day in covering and
securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain might
not spoil them.

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly con-
cerned to secure myself from an attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a
proper place under a rock, and marked out a semicircle
for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with
a work, wall, or fortification made of double piles, lined
within with cables, and without with turf.

From the26th to the 80th I worked very hard in carry-
ing all my goods to my new habitation, though some part
of the time it rained exceeding hard.

The Slst in the morning I went out into the island with
my gun to seek for some food, and discover the country,
when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home,
which I afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I could
with stakes driven 1n to swing my hammock upon.

November 2. I set up all my chests and boards,
and the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with
them formed a fence round me, a little within the place
I had marked out for my fortification.

November 3. I went out with my gun and killed
two fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon went to work to make me a table.

November 4. This morning I began to order my
times of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep,
and time of diversion, viz, every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours if it did not rain, then
employed myself to work till about eleven o';clock then
ate what I had to live on and from twelve to two I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot, and then
in the evening to work again. The working part of this
day and of the next were wholly employed in making my
table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman, though
time and necessity made me a complete natural mechanic
soon after, as I believe it would do anyone else.

November 5. This day went abroad with my gun
and my dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft,
but her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed, I
took off the skins and preserved them. Coming back by
the seashore, I saw many sorts of sea fowls which I did
not understand, but was surprised and almost frighted
with two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not
well knowing what they were, got into the sea and es-
caped me for that time.

November 6. After my morning walk I went to
work with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking; nor was it long before I learned to mend it.

November 7. Now it began to be settled fair
weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and part of the 12th (for
the 11th was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a
chair and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape,
but never to please me, and even in the making, I pulled
it in pieces several times. Note: I soon neglected my keep-
ing Sundays, for, omitting my mark for them on my post,
I forgot which was which.

November 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
me exceedingly and cooled the earth, but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my powder; as soon as
it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder
into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
be in danger.

November 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound or two pounds, at most, of powder; and
so, putting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure
and remote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat, bu
I know not what to call it.

November 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock to make room for my farther con-
veniency. Note: Three things I wanted exceedingly for
this work, viz., a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow
or basket, so I desisted from my work and began to con-
sider how to supply that want and make me some tools.
As for a pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heavy; but the next thing was a
shovel or spade. This was so absolutely necessary, that
indeed I could do nothing eEectually without it, but
what kind of one to make I knew not.

November 18. The next day in searching the
woods I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in
the Brazils they call the iron tree, for its exceeding hard-
ness; of this, with great labor, and almost spoiling my
axe, I cut a piece and brought it home, too, with difficulty
enough, for it was exceeding heavy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine, for
I worked it effectually by little and little into the form
of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours
in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long; however,
it served well enough for the uses which I had ocmsion
to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made after
that fashion, or so long a-making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow; a basket I could not make by any means, having
no such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-
ware, at least none yet found out; and as to a wheel-
barrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel, but that
I had no notion of, neither did I know how to go about
it; besides, I had no possible way to make the iron
gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in,
so I gave it over; and so for carrying away the earth which
I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod which
the laborers carry mortar in when they serve the brick-
layers.

This was not so difficult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this and the shovel and the attempt which
I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow took me up no
less than four days, I mean always excepting my morning
walk with my gun, which I seldom failed, and very seldom
failed also bringing home something fit to eat.

November 23. My other work having now stood

still because of my making these tools, when they were
finished I went on, and working every day, as my strength
and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in
widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiously.
, Norm: During all this time, I worked to make this room
or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as>> a ware-
: house or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar;
as for my lodging, I kept to the tent, except that some-
times in the wet season of the year it rained so hard that
I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards
to cover all my place within my pale with long poles, in
the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and load
them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it
too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the
top and one side, so much, that, in short, it frighted me,
and not without reason too; for if I had been under it I
had never wanted a gravedigger. Upon this disaster I had
a great deal of work to do over again; for I had the loose
earth to carry out; and which was of more importance, I
had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no
more would come down. '

December 11. This day I went to work with it ac-
cordingly and got two shores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each post;
This I finished the next day; and setting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof seemed;
and the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions
to part of my house. -

December 17. From this day to the twentieth I
placed shelves and knocked up nails on the posts to hang
everything up that could be hung up, and now I began
to be in some order within doors.

December 20. Now I carried everything into the
cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up some .
pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals upon,

but boards began to be very scarce with me; also I made
me another table.

December 24. Much rain all night and all day; no
stirring out.

December 25. Rain all day.

December 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.

December 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed an-
other, so as that I catched it, and led it home in a' string;
when I had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg,
which was broke. N.B. I took such care of it that it lived,
and the leg grew well, and as strong as ever; but by my
nursing it so long it grew tame and fed upon the little
green at my door and would not go away. This was the
first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some
tame creatures, that .I might have food when my powder
and shot was all spent.

December 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the eve-
ning for food; this time I spent in putting all my things
in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still, but I went abrOad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the
day; this evening going farther into the valleys which lay
towards the center of the island, I found there was plenty
of goats, though exceeding shy and hard to come at; how-
ever, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt
them down.

January 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mis-
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog, and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not come near
them.

9"" January 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being

\" still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I re-

1' solved to make very thick and strong.

' N.B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit

what was said in the journal; it is sufficient to observe,

that I was no less time than from the 3rd of January to
the 14th of April working, finishing and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about 24 yards in length,
being a half circle from one place in the rock to another
place about eight yards from it, the door of the cave being
in the center behind it.

Managing My Household Affairs

ALL THIS time I worked very hard, the rains hindering
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I
thought I should never be perfectly secure till this wall
was finished; and it is scarce credible what inexpressible
labor everything was done with, especially the bringingMANAGING mt HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS 83

piles out of the woods, and driving them into the ground,
for I made them much bigger than I need to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there,
they would not perceive anything like a habitation; and
it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter
upon a very remarkable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for
game every day when the rain admitted me and made
frequent discoveries in these walks of something or other
to my advantage; particularly I found a kind of wild
pigeons, who built not as wood pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and
taldng some young ones, I endeavored to breed them up
tame, and did so; but when they grew older they flew all'
away, which perhaps was at first for want of feeding
them, for I had nothing to give them; however, I fre-
quently found their nests and got their young ones, which \
were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as to
some of them it was; for instance, I could never make a
cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or two, as I ob-
served before, but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many weeks about
it; I could neither put in the heads, or joint the staves so
true to one another, as to make them hold water, so I
gave that also over. '

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so
that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered
the" lump of beeswax with which I made candles in my
African adventure, but I had none of that now; the only
remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which I
baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum,
I made me a lamp; and this gave me light, though not a
clear steady light like a candle. In the middle of all my
labors it happened that, rummaging my things, I found
a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled
with corn 1 for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage,
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lis-
bon; what little remained of corn had been in the bag was
all devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag
but husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag for
some other use, I think it was to put powder in, when I
divided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I
shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortifi-
cation under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of
anything, and not so much as remembering that I had
thrown anything there; when about a month after or
thereabout I saw some few stalks of something green
shooting out of the ground, which I fancied might be
some plant I had not seen; but I was surprised and per-
fectly astonished when after a little longer time I saw
about ten or twelve ears come out which were perfect

\ green barley of the same kind as our European, nay, as
four English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion; I had hitherto

cted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed I had
ery few notions of religion in my head or had entertained

y sense of anything that had befallen me otherwise than
as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God; with-
out so much as inquiring into the end of Providence in

1 Grain
these things or His order in governing events in the
world. But after I saw barley grow there, in a climate
which I know was not proper for corn, and especially
that I knew not how it came there, it startled me strangely
and I began to suggest that God had miraculously caused
this grain to grow without any help of seed sown and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that
wild miserable place.

This touched my heart a little and brought tears out of \-.
my eyes, and I began to bless myself, that such a rodigy g
of Nature should happen upon my account; and s was 2
the more strange to me because I saw near it still, all
along by the side of the rock, some other straggling stalks,
which proved to be stalks of rice and which I knew, be-

 
  
 
 

I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support but not doubting but that there
was more in the place, I went all over that part of the '
island where I had been before, peering in every corner
and under every rock, to see for more of it, but I could ,
not find any; at last it occurred to my thoughts that I had _,
shook a bag of chickens' meal out in that place, and the
the wonder began to cease; and I must confess, my re-
ligious thankfulness to God's Providence began to abate
too upon the discovering that all this was nothing but
what was common; though I ought to have been as
thankful for so strange and unforeseen Providence as if
it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of
Providence as to me, that should order or appoint, that
ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled
(when the rats had destroyed all the rest), as if it had
been dropped from Heaven; as also that I should throw
it out in that particular place where, it being in the shade
of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I

"emu--m." .. EUR_:sr...r "cairn..." an

,'Tz- , .
m-
had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been
burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure,
in their season, which was about the end of June; and
laying up every com, I resolved to sow them all again,
hoping in time to have some quantity suficient to supply
me with bread; but it was not till the fourth year that I
could allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and
even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards in its
order; for I lost all that I sowed the first season by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it just before the
dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it
would have done; of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there was, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care,
and whose use was of the same kind or to the same pur-
pose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food; for I found
ways to cook it up without baking, though I did that also
after some time. But to return to my journal.

I worked excessive hard these three or four months to
get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up,
contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall
by a ladder, that there might be no sign in the outside of
my habitation.

April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and
let it down in the inside. This was a complete enclosure
to me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could
come at me from without, unless it could first mount my

wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself
killed; the case was thus. As I was busy in the inside of
it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I
was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising
thing indeed; for all on a sudden I found the earth come
crumbling down from the roof of my cave, and from the
edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts I had
set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner; I was
heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was really
the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was fall-
ing in, as some of it had done before; and for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not think-
ing myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear
of the pieces of the bill which I expected might roll down
upon me. I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm

ground but I plainly 89W
the ground I Rooddn shook three es at about eig t
minutes' distance, with three such shocks as would have
overturned the strongest building that could be supposed
to have stood on the earth, and a great piece of the top
of a rock, which stood about half a mile from me next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise, as I never heard
in all my life. I perceived also the very sea was put into
violent motion by it; and I believe the shocks wer
stronger under the water than on the island. 3

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt
the like or discoursed with anyone that had, that I was
like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth
made my stomach sick like one that was tossed at sea;
but the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me as it
were, and rousing me from the stupefied condition I was
in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then
but the hill falling upon my tent and all my household
goods and burying all at once; and this sunk my very
soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage, and yet'I had not
heart enough to go over my wall again, for fear. of being
buried alive, butt-sat still upon the ground, greatly cast
down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this

while I had not the least serious religious thought, noth-
ing but the common, "Lord ha' mercy upon me!" and
when it was over, that went away too. '

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that the wind rose
by little and little, so that in less than half an hour it blew
a most dreadful hurricane. The sea was all on a sudden
covered over with foam and froth, the shore was covered
with the breach of the water, the trees were torn up by
the roots, and a terrible storm it was; and this held about
three hours, and then began to abate, and in two hours
more it was stark calm, and began to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground very much terrified
and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts
that, these winds and rain being the consequences of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and
I might venture into my cave again. With this thought my
spirits began to revive, and the rain also helping to per-
suade me, I went in and sat down in my tent; but- the
rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten
down with it, and I was forced to go into my cave, though
very much afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on
my head.

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a
hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the
water go out, which would else have drowned my cave.
After I had been in my cave some time, and found still
no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be
more composed; and now to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store and
took a small sup of mm, which, however, I did then and
always very sparingly, knowing I could have no more
when that was gone.

It continued raining all that night and great part of the
next day, so that I could not stir abroad, but my mind
being more composed, I began to think of what I had
best do, concluding that if the island was subject to these
earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a cave,
but I must consider of building me some little hut' in an
open place which I might surround with a wall, as I had
done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or
men; but concluded, if I stayed where I was, I should
certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from ,
the place where it stood, which was just under the hang-
ing precipicgof'the hill, and which, if it should be shaken
again, would certainly fall upon my tent. And I spent the
two next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in con-
triving where and how to remove my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I
never slept in quiet, and yet the apprehension of lying
abroad without any fence was almost equal to it; but still,
when I looked about and saw how everything Was put in'
order, how pleasantly concealed I was and how safe'from
danger, it made me very loath to remove. '

In the meantime it occurred to me that it would re-
quire a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must
be contented to run the venture where I was, till I had
formed a camp for myself, and had seemed it so as to me
move to it. So with this resolution I composed myself for
a time and resolved that I would go to work with all
speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, etc., in a?
circle as before and set my tent up in it when it was fin:
ished, but that I would venture to stay where I was till it
was finished and fit to remove. This was the 21st.

April 22. The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution, but I was at a great

loss about my tools; I had three large axes and abundance
of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with
the Indians), but with much chopping and cutting knotty
hard wood, they were all full of notches and dull, and
though I had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind
my tools too; this cost me as much thought as a statesman
would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or
a judge upon the life and death of a man. At length I
contrived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot,
that I might have both my hands at liberty. Note: I had
never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to
take notice how it was done, though since I have ob-
served it is very common there; besides that, my grind-
stone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a
full week's work to bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone
performing very well.

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced
myself to one biscuit cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.

May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask; when I
came to it, I found a small barrel and two or three pieces
of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by
the late hurricane, and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it
used to do; I examined the barrel which was driven on
shore and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder, but
it had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as
a stone; however, I rolled it farther on shore for the pres-
ent and went on upon the sands as near as I could to the
wreck of the ship to look for more.

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely re-
moved. The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand,
was heaved up at least six foot, and the stern, which was
broke to pieces and parted from the rest by the force of
the sea soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed,
as it were, up, and cast on one side, and the sand was
thrown so high on that side next her stern that whereas
there was a great place of water before, so that I could
not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without
swimming, I could now walk quite up to her when the
tide was out; I was surprised with this at first, but soon
concluded it must be done by the earthquake, and as by
this violence the ship was more broken open than for.-
merly, so many things came daily on shore, which the sea
had loosened and which the winds and water rolled by
degrees to the land. .

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily a
that day especially in searching whether I could make '
any way into the ship, but I found nothing was to be ex-
pected of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to
despair of anything, I resolved to pull everything to pieces
that I could of the ship, concluding that everything I
could get from her would be of some use or other to
me.

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held some of the "upper
part or quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it
thr0ugh, I cleared away the sand as well as I could from
the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was
obliged to give over for that time.

May 4. I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish
that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport, when,
just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long line of some rope yarn, but I had no
hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I
cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun and eat them

dry- _

May 5. Worked on the wreck, out another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from the
decks, which I tied together and made swim on shore
when the tide of flood came on.

' May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her and other pieces of ironwork; worked
very hard and came home very much tired and had
thoughts of giving it over.

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an in-
tent not to work, but found the weight of the wreck had
broke itself down, the beams being cut, that several pieces
of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold
lay so open that I could see into it, but almost full of water
and sand.

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear
of the water or sand; I wrenched open two planks and
brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the iron
crow in the wreck for next day. -

May 9. Went to the wreck and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck and felt several
casks and loosened them with the crow, but could not
break them up; I felt also the roll of English lead and
.could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove.

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the
wreck, and got a great deal of pieces of timber and
boards, or plank, and two or three hundredweight of
iron.

May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I could not
cut a piece OE of the roll of lead, by placing the edge of
one hatchet and driving it with the other; but as it lay
about a foot and a half in the water, I could not make" any-
blow to drive the hatchet.

May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for food
that the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, near two miles 0E me, but re-
solved to see what they were and found it was a piew of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

May 24. Every' day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labor I loosened some things so
much with the crow, that with the first blowing tide sev-
eral casks floated out and two of the seamen's chests; but
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber and a hogshead which had
some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had
spoiled it.

I Vcontinued'this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it was"
ebbed out, and by this time I had gotten timber and plank
and ironwork enough to have builded a good boat, if I
had known how; and also, I got at several times and in
several pieces near one hundredweight of the sheet lead.

June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a
large tortoise, or turtle; this was the first I had seen,
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of
the place, or scarcity; for bad I happened to be on the
other side of the island, I might have had hundreds of
them every day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle; I_ found in
her threesoore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that time
the most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life,
having had no flesh but of goats and fowls since I landed
in this horrid place.

June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was some-
thing chilly, which I knew was not usual in that latitude.

Delivered Wonderfully from Sickness

 

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.

June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverish.

/ June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and no
help. Prayed to God for the first time since the storm off
of Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or why; my thoughts
being all confused.

June 22. A little better, but under dreadful ap<<
prehensions of sickness.

June 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak; however, I
killed a she-goat and with much difficulty got it home and
broiled some of it and eat; I would fain have stewed it
and made some broth, but had no pot.
. June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed
? all day and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to perish
i for thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up or
3 to get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again,DELIVERED WONDERFULLY FROM SICKNESS 9

but was lightheaded; and when I was not, I was so
ignorant that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried.
"Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy
upon me!" I suppose I did nothing else for. two or three
hours till, the fit wearing OH, I fell asleep and did not
wake fill far in the night; when I waked, I found myself
much refreshed, but weak and exceeding thirsty. How-
ever, as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was
forced to lie till morning and went to sleep again. In this
second sleep I had this terrible dream.

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the out-
side of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after
the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a
great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light upon
the ground. He was all over as bright as a flame, so that
I could but just hear to look towards him; his countenance
was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to
describe; when he stepped upon the ground with his feet,
I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before
in the earthquake, and all the air looked, to my appre-
hension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth but he moved
forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, (
at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so !
terrible, that it is impossible to express the terror of it; v
all that I can say I understh was this: "Seeing all these
things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou
shalt die." At which words, I thought he lifted up the
spear that was in his hand, to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul
at this terrible vision; I mean, that even while it was a
dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any
more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaked and found it was but a
dream.

I I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received

f by the good instruction of my father was then worn out
\ by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring

<

wickedness and a constant conversation with nothing but
5 such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last
degree. I do not remember that I had in all that time one
thought that so much as tended either to looking up-
wards toward Cod or inwards towards a reflection upon
my own ways. But a certain stupidity of soul, without
desire of good or conscience of evil, had entirely over-
whelmed me, and I was all that the most hardened, un-
thinking, wicked creature among our common sailors can
be supposed to be, not having the least sense either of the
fear of God in danger or of thankfulness to God in de-
liverances.
<<In the relating what is already past of my story, this
will be the more easily believed, when I shall add, that
through all the variety of miseries that had to this day
befallen me, I never had so much as one thought of it
being the hand of God or that it was a just punishment
for my sin: my rebellious behavior against my father, or
my present sins, which were great; or so much as a pun-
ishment for the general course of my wicked life. When
I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of
Africa, I never had so much as one thought of what would
become of me; or one wish to God to direct me whither
I should go or to keep me from the danger which appar-
ently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as
cruel savages. But I was merely thoughtless of a God, or
a Providence; acted like a mere brute from the principles
of Nature and by the dictates of common sense only, and
indeed hardly that.

When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portugal captain, well used and dealt justly and honor-
ably with, as well as charitably, I had not the least thank-
fulness in my thoughts. When again I was shipwrecked,
mined, and in danger of drowning on this island, I was
as far from remorse or looking on it as a judgment; I only
said to myself often that I was an unfortunate dog and
born to be always miserable.

It is true, when I got on shore first here and found all
my ship's crew drowned and myself spared, I was sur-
prised with a kind of ecstasy and some transports of soul
which, had the grace of God assisted, might have come
up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it begun, in
a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad
I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guishing goodness of the hand which had preserved me
and had singled-me out to be preserved when all the rest
were destroyed; or an inquiry why Providence had been
thus merciful to me; even just the same common sort of
joy which seamen generally have after they are got safe
ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next
bowl of punch and forget almost as soon as it is over; and
all the rest of my life was like it.

Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this
dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all
hope of relief or prospect of redemption, as soon as I saw
but a prospect of living and that I should not starve and
perish for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore off,
and I began to be very easy, applied myself to the works
proper for my preservation and supply and was far
enough from being amicted at my condition, as a judg-
ment from Heaven, or asthe hand of God against me;
these were thoughts which very seldom entered into my
head.

The growing up of the com, as is hinted in my journal,
had at first some little influence upon me, and began to
afiect me with seriousness, as long as I thought it had
something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever that

. of the thought was removed, all the impression which was
raised from it wore OE also, as I have noted already.

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature or more immediately directing to
the invisible Power which alone directs such things, yet

' no sooner was the first fright over but the impression it
i had made went OE also. I had no more sense of God or
'. His judgments, much less of the present aflliction of my

1 circumstances being from His hand, than if I had been in

'\ the most prosperous condition of life.

But now, when I began to be sick and a leisurely view
of the miseries of death came to place itself before me;
when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a
strong distemper and nature was exhausted with the vio-
lence of the fever; conscience that had slept so long be-
gan to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wick-
edness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under un-
common strokes and to deal with me in so vindictive a
manner.

These reflections oppressed me for the second or third
day of my distemper, and in the violence as well of the
fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience ex-
torted some words from me, like praying to God, though
I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with de-
sires or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright
and distress; my thoughts were confused, the convictions
great upon my mind, and the horror of dying in such a
miserable condition raised vapors into my head with the
mere apprehensions; and in these hurries of my soul I
know not what my tongue might express; but it was
rather exclamation, such as, "Lord! what a miserable__
creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall certainly die
for want of help, and what will become of me?" Then the
tears burst out 'of my eyes, and I could say no more for a
good while.

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to '
my mind, and presently his prediction, which I men-
tioned at the beginning of this story, viz., that if I did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and I
would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neg-
lected his counsel, when there might be none to assist in
my recovery. "Now," said I aloud, "my dear father's words
are come to pass. God's justice has overtaken me, and I
have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of
Providence, which had merciftu put me in a posture or
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy;
but I would neither see it myself or learn to know the
blessing of it from my parents; I left them to mourn over
my folly, and now I am left to mourn under the conse-
quences of it. I refused their help and assistance who
would have lifted me into the world and would have
made everything easy to me, and now I have dificulties
to struggle with, too great for even nature itself to sup-
port, and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice."
Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress."

_Th\1$ was the__first pW--sommd

WEW.

June 28. Having been somew at refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got
up; and though the fright and terror of my dream was
very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague would
return again the next day, and now was my time to get
something to refresh and support myself when I should

be ill; and the first thing I did, I filled a large square
case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach
of my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition
of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into
it and mixed them together; then I got me a piece of the
goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat
very little; I walked about, but was very weak and withal
very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable
condition, dreading the return of my distemper the next
day. At night I made my supper of three of the turtle's
eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it,
in the shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever
asked God's blessing to, even as I could remember, in
my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so
weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went
out without that); so I went but a little way, and sat down
upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was
just before me and very calm and smooth. As I sat here,
some thoughts as these occurred to me.

What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I, and all
the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal,
whence are we?

Sure we are all made by some secret Power who formed
the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is that?

Then it followed most naturally, W5
made it all. Well, but then, it came on strangely, if God
has made all these things, He guides and governs them
all and all things that concern them; for the Power that
could make all things must certainly have power to guide
and direct them.

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His
works either without His knowledge or appointment.

' And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He
knows that I am here and am in this dreadful condition,
y and if nothing happens without His appointment, He has
appointed all this to befall me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of
' these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me with
the greater force that it must needs be that God had ap-
pointed all this to befall me; that I was brought to this
miserable circumstance by His direction, He having the
sole power, not of me only, but of everything that hap-
pened in the world. Immediately it followed: ~

Why has God done this to me? What have I done to I)?
thus used? I

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry,
as if I had blasphemed, and methought it spoke to me
like a voice: "Wm-mm! dost thou ask what thou hast
done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life and ask
thyself what thou hast not done; ask, why is it that thou
wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight when the ship was
taken by the Sallee man-of-war? devoured by the wild
beasts on the coast of Africa? or drowned here, when all
the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask, What have
I done?"

I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one aston-
ished, and had not a word to say, no, not to answer to
myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to my
retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been going
to bed, but my thoughts were sadly disturbed and I had
no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my chair and
lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now as the
apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much, it occurred to my thought that the Brazilians
take no physio but their tobacco, for almost all distem-
pers; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the
chests which was quite cured and some also that was
green and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest
I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest,
and found what I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the
few books I had saved lay there too, I took cut one of
the Bibles which I mentioned before and which to this
time I had not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to
look into; I say, I took it out, and brought both that and
the tobacco with me to the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my

distemper, or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried
several experiments with it as if I was resolved it should
hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a leaf, and
chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first almost stu-
pefied my brain, the tobacco being green and strong and
that I had not been much used to it; then I took some
and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved
to take a dose of it when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt
some upon a pan of coals and held my nose close over
the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it as well for the
heat as almost for suffocation.
I>> In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible
and began to read, but my head was too much disturbed
' with the tobacco to bear reading, at least that time; only
having opened the book casually, the first words that oc-
curred to me were these, "Call on Me in the day of trou-
ble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me."

The words were very apt to my case, and made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did afterwards; for as for be-
ing delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to
me; thething was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of things that I began to say, as the children of
Israel did when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can
God spread a table in the wildemess?"; so I began to say,
"Can God Himself deliver me from this place?" and as it
was not for many years that any hope appeared, this pre-
vailed very often upon my thoughts. 'But however, the
words made a great impression upon me, and I mused.
upon them very' often. It grew now late, and the tobacco
had, as I said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to
sleep; so I left my lamp burning in the cave lest I should
want anything in the night and went to bed; but before
I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life;
I kneeled dOWn and prayed to God to fulfill the promise
to me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble, He
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer
was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the tobacco
that indeed I could scarce get it down; immediately upon
this I went to bed; I found presently it flew up in my
head violently, but I fell into a sound sleep and waked
no more till by the sun it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour

' I'm partly of the opinion that I slept all the next day and

night, and till almost three that day after; for otherwise
I knew not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning
in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after
I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and re-crossing
the line, I should have lost more than one day. But cer-
tainly I lost a day in my account and never knew which
way.

Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed and my spirits lively
and cheerful; when I got up, I was stronger than I was
the day before and my stomach better, for I was hungry;
and in short, I had no fit the next day, but continued
much altered for the better; this was the 29th.

{he 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun but did not care to travel too far.
I killed a seafowl or two, something like a brand goose,
and brought them home, but was not very forward to eat
them; so I ate same more of the turtle's eggs, which were
very good. .This evening I renewed the medicine, which
I had supposed did me good the day before, viz., the to-
bacco steeped in rum, only I did not take so much as be-
fore, nor did I chew any of the leaf or hold my head over
the smoke. However, I was not so well the next day,
which was the first of July, as I hoped I should have been;
for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2. I renewedthe medicine all the three ways,
and dosed myself with it as at first; and doubled the
quantity which I drank.

July 8. I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after;
while I was gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceed-
ingly upon this Scripture, "I will deliver thee," and the
impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my mind,
in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was discouraging
myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind, that
I pored so much upon my deliverance from the main
affliction that I disregarded the deliverance I had re-
ceived; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such
questions as these, viz.: Have I not been delivered, and
wonderfully, too, from sickness? from the most distressed
condition that could be and that was so frightful to me?
And what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part?
God had delivered me, but I had not glorified Him;'that
is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as
a deliverance, and how could I expect greater deliver-
ance?

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I
kneeled down and gave God thanks aloud for my re-
covery from my sickness.

July 4. In the morning I took the Bible, and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to read
it, and imposed upon myself to read a while every mom-
ing and every night, not tying myself to the number of
chapters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me.
It was not long after I set seriously to this work, but I
found my heart more deeply and sincerely afiected with
the wickedness of my past life. The impression of my
dream revived, and the words, "All these things have not
brought thee to repentance," ran seriously in my thought.
I was earnestly begging of God to give me repentance,
when it happened providentially the very day that read-
ing the Scripture, I came to these words, "He is exalted a
Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance, and to give re-
mission." I threw down the book, and with my heart as
well as my hands lifted up tOrHeaven, in a kind of ecstasy
of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, Thou Son of David, Jesus,

Thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance!"
' This was the first time that I could sa -,--in the true
sense of the wordsj'that I prayed m' alI my file; for now I
prayed with a sense of my condition and with a true
Scripture view of hope founded on the encouragement of
the Word of God; and from this time, I may say, I began
to have hope that God would hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
"Call on Me, and I will deliver you," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before; for then I had no
notion of anything being called deliverance but my being
delivered from the captivity I was in; for though I was
indeed at large in the place, yet the island was certame
a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the world;
but now I learned to take it in another sense. Now I
looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing
of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore
down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was noth-
ing; I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it or
think of it; it was all of no consideration in comparison
to this. And I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall
read it, that whenever they come to a true sense of things,
they will find deliverance from sin a much greater bless-
ing than deliverance from affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less miser-
able as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind;
and my thoughts being directed by a constant reading
the Scripture and praying to God to things of a higher
nature, I had a great deal of comfort within which till
now I knew nothing of; also, as my health and strength

' returned, I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every-
thing that I wanted and make my way of living as regular
as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th I was chiefly employed
in walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a
little at a time, as a man that was gathering up his
strength after a fit of sickness. For it is hardly to be im-
agined how low I was, and to what weakness I was re-
duced. The application which I made use of was perfectly
new and perhaps what had never cured an ague before;
neither can I recommend it to anyone to practice, by this
experiment; and though it did carry off the fit, yet it
rather contributed to weakening me; for I had frequent
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.

I learned from it also this in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing
to my health that could be, especially in those rains which
came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind; for
as the rain which came in the dry season was always most
accompanied with such storms, so I found that rain was
much more dangerous than the rain which fell in Sep-
tember and October.

A More Perfect Discovery of the Island

I HAD been now in this unhappy island me:
Wall possibility of deliverance from this co ' 'PERFECT DISCOVERY or THE ISLAND 109

seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly be.-
lieved that no human shape had ever set foot upon that
place. Having now secured my habitation, as I thought,
fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
perfect discovery of the island and to see what other pro-
ductions I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was the 15th Iuly that I began to take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek
first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore; I
found after I>> came about two miles up that the tide did
not flow any higher and that it was no more than a little
brook of running water, and very fresh and good; but this
being the dry season, there was hardly any water in some -
parts of it, at least, not enough to run in any stream so as
it could be perceived.

On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savan-
nas, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass;
and on the rising parts of them next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as it might be supposed, never over-
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green and grow-
ing to a great and very strong stalk; there were divers
other plants, which I had no notion of, or understanding
about, and might perhaps have virtues of their own,
which I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in
all that climate make their bread of, but I could find none.
I saw large plants of aloes, but did not then understand
them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild and, for want
of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time, and came back musing with my-.
self what course I might take to know the virtue and
goodness of any of the fruits orplants which I should

discover; but could bring it to no conclusion; for in short,

I had made so little observation while I was in the Brazils' '

that'I knew little of the plants in the field, at least very
little that might serve me to any purpose now in my dis-
tress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again,
and after going something farther than I had gone the
day before, I found the brook and the savannas began to
cease, and the country became more woody than before;
in this part I found different fruits, and particularly I
found melons upon the ground in great abundance and
grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread indeed over
the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discov-
ery, and I was exceeding glad of them; but I was warned
by my experience to eat sparingly of them, remembering
that when I was ashore in Barbary the eating of grapes
killed several of our Englishmen who were slaves there,
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. But I found an
excellent use for these grapes, and that was to cure or dry
them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins
are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were,
as wholesome as agreeable to eat when no grapes might
be to be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which by the way was the first night, as I
might say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my
first cont-ivance and got up into a tree, where I slept well;
and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery, trav-
eling near four miles, as I might judge by the length of
the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on
the south and north side of me.

At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west, and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the
hill by me, run the other way, that is, due east; and the
country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every-
thing being in a constant verdure, or flourish of Spring,
that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed
with my other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was
all my own, that I was king and lord of all this country
indefeasibly and had a right of possession; and if I could
convey it, I might have it in inheritance, as completely as
any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance of
cocoa trees, orange and lemon and citron trees; but all
wild and very few bearing any fruit, at least not then.
However, the green limes that I gathered were not only
pleasant to eat but very wholesome; and I mixed their
juice afterwards with water, which made it very whole-
some and very cool and refreshing.

I found now I had business enough to gather and carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store as well of grapes
as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in
one place and a lesser heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking
a few of each with me, I traveled homeward and resolved
to come again and bring a bag or sack, or what I could
make, to carry the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey,
I came home, so I must now call my tent and my cave.
But before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the
richness of the fruits and the weight of the juice having
broken them and bruised them, they were good for little
or nothing; as to the limes, they were good, but I could
bring but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made 1
me two small bags to bring home my harvest. But I was }
surprised, when coming to my heap of grapes, which
were so rich and fine when I gathered them, I found them
all Spread about, trod to pieces and dragged about, some
here, some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By
this I concluded there were some wild creatures there-
abouts which had done this; but what they were I knew
not.

However, as I found that there was no laying them up
in heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but that
one way they would be destroyed, and the other way they
would be crushed with their owu weight, I took another
course; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them up upon the out-branches of the trees, that
they might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand
under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley and the
pleasantness of the situation, the security from storms on
that side the water and the wood, and concluded that I
had pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by
far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I be-
gan to consider of removing my habitation; and to look
out for a place equally safe as where I now was situate, if
possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.--"

Ms thought ran long in my head, and I was exceed-
ing fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place
tempting me; but when I came to a nearer view of it and
to consider that I was now by the seaside, where it was at
least possible that something might happen to my advan-
tage, and by the same ill fate that brought me hither
might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same
place; and though it was scarce probable that any such
thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself among
the hills and woods, in the center of the island, was to
anticipate my bondage and to render such an affair not
only improbable but impossible; and that therefore I
ought not by any means to remove.

However, I was so enamored of this place that I spentl R

PERFECT DISCOVERY OF THE ISLAND I13

much of my time there, for the whole remaining partof
the month of ]uly; and though upon second thoughts I
resolved as above not to remove, yet I built me a- little
kind of a bower and surrounded it at a distance with a
strong fence, being a double hedge as high as I could
reach, well staked and filled between with brushwood;
and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights
together, always going over it with a ladder, as before; so
that I fancied now I had my country house and my sea-
coast house. And this work took me up to the beginning
of August.

I had but newly finished my fence and began to enjoy {

my labor, but the rains came on and made me stick close
to my first habitation! for though I had mademe a tent
like the other with a piece of a sail and spread it very
well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, not a (rave behind me to retreat into, when the
rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August
I found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried
and, indeed, were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I
began to take them down from the trees, and it was very
happy that I did so; for the rains which followed would
have spoiled them and I had lost the best part of my win-
ter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of
them. No sooner had I taken them all down and carried
most of them home to my cave but it began to rain, and
from hence, which was the 14th of August, it rained more
or less, every day, till the middle of October, and some-
times so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of
my cats, who run away from me, or, as I thought, had

,4>>
'1
been dead, and I heard no more tale or tidings of her till,
to my astonishment, she came home about the end of Au-
gust, with three kittens; this was the more strange to me,
because, though I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with
my gun, yet I thought it was a quite different kind from
our European cats; yet the young cats were the same
kind of house breed like the old one; and both my cats
being females, I thought it very strange. But from these
three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats
that I was forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so
that I could not stir and was now very careful not to be
much wet. In this confinement I began to be straitened
for food, but venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat
and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my food was regu-
lated thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a
piece of the goat's flesh or of the turtle for my dinner,
broiled; for'to my great misfortune I had no vessel to boil
or stew anything; and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I came
to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came in
and out this way; but I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open; for as I had managed myself before, I was in a
perfect enclosure, whereas now I thought I lay exposed
and open for anything to come in upon me; and yet I
could not perceive that there was any living thing to fear,
the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island
being a goat.

September 30. I was now come to the unhappyrumor mscovzmr or THE ISLAND "1 15,

anniversa of my landing. I cast up the notches on my)
Wemm hundred and .
s' -five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it 3,'
apart to religious exercise, prostrating myself on the '-
ground with the most serious humiliation, confessing my -.
sins to God, acknowledging His righteous judgments :
upon me and praying to Him to have mercy on me .
through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the least re-
freshment for twelve hours, even till the going down of
the sun, I then eat a biscuit cake and a bunch of grapes
and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath day; for as at
first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after
some time omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a
longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath day, and so
did not really know what any of the days were; but now
having cast up the days, as above, I found I had been
there a year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart
every seventh day for a Sabbath; though I found at the
end of my account I had lost a day or two in my reckon-
m .
a little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I con-
tented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life, without con-
tinuing a daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as
to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all my
experience before I had it; and this I am going to relate
was one of the most discouraging experiments that I
made at all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few.
ears of barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found
spring up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there
was about thirty stalks of rice and about twenty of barley;
and now I thought it a proper time to sow it after the
rains, the sun being in its southern position, going
from me.

M9 Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two
parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually
occurred to my thoughts that I would not sow it all at
first, because I did not know when was the proper time
for it; so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving
about a handful of each.

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so,
for not one grain of that I sowed this time came to any-
thing; for the dry months following, the earth having had
no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture to
assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet
season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been
but newly sown.

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece
of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece
of ground near my new bower and sowed the rest of my
seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox; and
this, having the rainy months of March and April to water
it, sprung up very pleasantly and yielded a very good
crop; but having part of the seed left only, and not daring
to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at last,
my whole crop not amounting to above half a peek of
each kind.

But by this experiment I was made master of my busi-
ness, and knew exactly when the proper season was to
sow; and that I might expect two seed times, and two
harvests every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over and the weather began to settle, which was
about the month of November, I made a visit up the
country to my bower, where, though I had not been some
months, yet I found all things just as I left them. The
circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes'which I, had cut out of some
trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out and grown
with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usually
shoots the first year after lopping its head. I could not
tell what tree to call it, that these stakes were cut from.
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them up
to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce credible
how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years; so
that though the hedge ma 6 a circle of about twenty-five
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now
call them, soon covered it; and it was a complete shade,
sufficient to lodge under all the dry season.

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my wall
(I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and plac-
ing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards' distance from my first fence, they grew presently
and were at first a fine cover to my habitation and after-
ward served for a defense also, as I shall observe in its
order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might gener-
ally be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Eu-
rope, but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons,
which were generally thus: '

Half iffi'y' } Rainy, the sun being then on or
Half April, near the equinox.
Half April.
May, Dry, the sun being then to the _
5:2: north of the line.
Half gzggffber Rainy, the sun being then come
Half October, back.
Half October,
November
' Dry, the sun being then to the
3:222:76" south of the line.
Half February,

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as
the winds happened to blow; but this was the general
observation I made. After I had found by experience the
ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took care
to fumish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might
not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors as much
as possible during the wet months.

This time I found much employment (and very suit-
able also to the time), for I found great occasion of many
things which I had no way to furnish myself with but by
hard labor and constant application; particularly, I tried
many ways to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I
could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they
would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to
me now, that when I was a boy, I used to take great de-
light in standing at a basket maker's, in the town where
my father lived, to see them make their wickerware; and

'being, as boys usually are, very oflicious to help and a
great observer of the manner how they worked those
things and sometimes lending a hand, I had by this means
full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted noth-
ing but the materials; when it came into my mind that
the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows and wil-
lows and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.

Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I
found them to my purpose as much as I could desire;
whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet
to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was
great plenty of them; these I set up to dry within my
circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use, I carried
them to my cave, and here during the next season I em-
ployed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many
baskets, both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything
as I had occasion; and though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for
my purpose; and thus afterwards I took care never to be
without them; and as my wickerware decayed, I made
more; especially, I made strong deep baskets to place my
corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world
of time about it, I bestirred myself to see if possible how
to supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold anything
that was liquid, except two runlets which were almost
full of rum and some glass bottles, some of the common
size, and others which were case bottles, square, for the
holding of waters, spirits, etc. I had not so much as a pot
to boil anything, except a great kettle, which I saved out
of the ship and which was too big for such use as I de-
sired it, viz., to make broth and stew a bit of meat by
itself. The second thing I would fain have had was a
tobacco-pipe; but it was impossible to me to make one;
however, I found a contrivance for that, too, at last.

I employed myself in planting my second rows of
stakes, or piles, and in this wicker-working all the sum-
mer, or dry season, when another business took me up
more time than it could be imagined I could spare.

I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the ,
whole island and that I had traveled up the brook and"
so on to where I built my bower and where I had an
opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island;
I now resolved to travel quite cross to the seashore on
that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a
larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit cakes and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for
my store, I began my journey. When I had passed the
vale where my bower stood, as above, I came within view
of the sea to the west, and it being a very clear day, I
fairly descried land, whether an island or a continent I
could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from the
west to the west-southwest, at a very great distance; by
my guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty
leagues ofl". -

'I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America
and, as I concluded by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where if I should have landed, I had been in a
worse condition than I was now; and therefore I acqui-
esced in the dispositions of Providence, which, I began
now to own and to believe, ordered everything for the
best; I say, I quieted my mind with this, and left afflicting
myself with fruitless wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered
that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way
or other; but if not, then it was the savage coast between
the Spanish country and Brazils, which are indeed the
worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters,
' and fail not to murder and devour all the human bodies
that fall into their hands. -

With these considerations I walked very leisurely for-
ward. I found that side of the island, where I now was,
much pleasanter than mine, the open. or savanna fields
sweet, adorned with flowers and grass and full of very fine
woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would
have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame
and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some pains-
taking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down with
a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home; but
it was some years before I could make him speak. How-
ever, at last I taught him to call me by my name very
familiarly. But the accident that followed, though it be
a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found
in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and
foxes, but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I
had met with; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no need to be ventur-
ous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too; especially these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons,
and turtle or tortoise; which, added to my grapes, Lead-
enhall Market could not have furnished a table better
than I, in proportion to the company; and though my case
was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thank-
fulness, and that I was not driven to any extremities for
food; but rather plenty, even to dainties.

I never traveled in this journey above two miles out-
right in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many turns
and returns, to see what discoveries I could make, that I
came weary enough to the place where I resolved to sit
down for all night; and then I either reposed myself in a
tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes set up- .
right' in the ground, either from one tree to another, or so
as no wild creature could come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island, for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles, whereas on the other side I had found
but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite
number of fowls of many kinds, some which I had seen,
and some which I had not seen of before, and many of
them very good meat; but such as I knew not the names
of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had more
mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could better
feed on; and though there were many goats here, more
than on my side the island, yet it was with much more
difficulty that I could come near them, the country being
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when I
was on the hill.
~-I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to re-
move; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became nat-
ural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be,
as it were, upon a journey and from home. However, I
traveled along the shore of the sea towards the east, I
suppose about twelve miles; and then setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go
home again; and that the next journey I took should be
.on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again. Of which in its

lace.

P I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in my
view that I could not miss finding my first dwelling by
viewing the country. But I found myself mistaken; for
being come about two or three miles, I found myself de-
scended into a very large valley, but so surrounded with
hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I could not
see which was my way by any direction but that of the
sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well the position
of the sun at that time of the day.
It happened to my farther misfortune that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this
valley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
about very uncomfortably and at last was obliged to find
out the seaside, look for my post, and come back the same
way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned home- .
ward, the weather being exceeding hot and my gun, am-
munition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it, and I, running in to take hold of it, caught A
it and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to
bring it home if I could; for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two and
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should be all spent.

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a strin
which I made of some rope-yam, which I always carried
about me, I led him along, though with some difficulty,
till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him and
left him; for I was very impatient to be at home from
whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch and lie down in my hammock.
bed. This little wandering journey, without settled place
of abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my own
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to
me compared to that; and it rendered everything about
me so comfortable that I resolved I would never go a
great way from it again while it should be my lot to stay
on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long journey; during which most of the time
was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for
my Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic and to be
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think
of the poor kid, which I had penned in within my little
circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it
some food; accordingly I went, and found it where I left
it; for indeed it could not get out, but almost starved for
want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and
branches of such shrubs as I could find and threw it over,
and having fed it, I tied it as I did before to lead it away;
but it was so tame with being hungry that I had no need
to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gen-
tle, and so fond, that it became from that time one of my
domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.

\>> I Began My Third Year

 

THE rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same sol-
emn manner as before, being the anniversary of my land-
ing on the island, having now been there two years, and
no more prospect of being delivered than the first day I
came there. I spent the whole day in humble and thank-
ful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies
which my solitary condition was attended with and with-
out which it might have been infinitely more miserable.
I gave humble and hearty thanks that God had been
pleased to discover to me even that it was possible I
might be more happy in this solitary condition than I
should have been in a liberty of society and in all the
pleasures of the world; that He could fully make up to
me the deficiencies of my solitary state and the want of
human society by His presence and the communications
of His grace to my soul, supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon His Providence here and
hope for His eternal presence hereafter.1 BEGAN MY THIRD YEAR [25'

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy this life I now led was, with all its miserable
circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life
I led all the past part of my days; and now I changed
both my sorrows and my joys; my very desires altered,
my affections changed their gusts and my delights were
perfectly new, from what they were at my first coming,
or indeed for the two years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my con-
dition would break out upon me on a sudden, and my
very heart would die within me to think of the woods,
the mountains, the deserts I was in; and how I was a
prisoner locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption.
In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this
would break out upon me like a storm and make me
wring my hands and weep like a child. Sometimes it
would take me in the middle of my work, and I would
immediately sit down and sigh and look upon the ground
for an hour or two together; and this was still worse to
me, for if I could burst out into tears or vent myself by
words, it would go off, and the grief having exhausted it-
self would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts;
I daily read the Word of God and applied all the com-
forts of it to my present state. One morning, being very
sad, I opened the Bible upon these words, "I will never,
never leave thee, nor forsake thee"; immediately it oc-
curred that these words were to me; why else should they
be directed in such a manner, just at the moment when
I was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of
God and man? "Well then," said I, "if God does not for-
sake me, of what ill consequence can it be or what mat-
ters it though the world should all forsake me, seeing on
the other hand, if I had all the world and should lose the
favor and blessing of God, there would be no comparison
in the loss?"

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this for-
saken solitary condition than it was probable I should
ever have been in any other particular state in the world;
and with this thought I was going to give thanks to God
for bringing me to this place.

I know not what it was but something shocked my
mind at that thought and I durst not speak the words.
"How canst thou be such a hypocrite," said I, even audi-
bly, "to pretend to be thankful for a condition which how-
ever thou may'st endeavor to be contented with, thou

' would'st rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" So I
stopped there. But though I could not say I thanked God
for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for
opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to
see the former condition of my life and to mourn for my
wickedness and repent. I never opened the Bible or shut
it, but my very soul within me blessed God for directing
my friend in England, without any order of mine, to pack
it up among my goods and for assisting me afterwards to
save it out of the wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year; and though I have not given the reader the trouble
of so particular account of my works this year as the first,
yet in general it may be observed that I was very seldom
idle; but having regularly divided my time, according to
the several daily employments that were before me, such
as, first, my duty to God and the reading the Scriptures,
which I constantly set apart some time for thrice every
day; secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food,
which generally took me up three hours in every mom-
ing, when it did not rain; thirdly, the ordering, curing,
preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for
my supply; these took up great part of the day; also it ii '
to be considered that the middle of the day when the sun
was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great
to stir out; so that about four hours in the evening was all
the time I could be supposed to work in; with this ex-
ception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting
and working and went to work in the morning and abroad
with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours which for want of tools, want of help, and want'of
skill everything I did took up out of my time. For ex-
ample, I was full two and forty days making me a board
for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas two
sawyers with their tools and a saw-pit would have out six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was
to be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days a-cutting down, and two more
cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece
of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I re-
duced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be
light enough to move; then I turned it and made one
side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end; then
turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I
brought the plank to be about three inches thick and
smooth on both sides. Anyone may judge the labor of my
hands in such a piece of work; but labor and patience
carried me through that and many other things. I only
observe this in particular, to show the reason why so
much of my time went away with so little work, viz., that
what might be a little to be done with help and tools was

a vast labor and required a prodigious time. to do alone
and by hand. .
But notwithstanding this, with patience and labor I
went through many things; and indeed everything that
my circumstances made necessary to me to do, as will
appear by what follows.

I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great; for as I ob-
served, my seed of each was not above the quantity of
half a peck; for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in
the dry season; but now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all
again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce pos-
sible to keep from it; at first, the goats, and wild creatures
which I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the
blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came up, and
eat it so close that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an enclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and the more, because it required speed. However,
as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got
it totally well fenced in about three weeks' time; and
shooting some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the
gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so
in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and the
corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my com was
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now,
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place to see
how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls
of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it were,
watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them (for I always had my gun with me). I had
no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of fowls,'4: "W
I BEGAN MY THIRD YEAR 429 5
' l

which I had not seen at all, from among the corn'its'elf. jg

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few "

days they would devour all my hopes, that I should be
starved and never be able to raise a crop at all, and what
to do I could not tell. However, I resolved not to lose my
corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day.
In the first place, I went among it to see what damage
was already done and found they had spoiled a good dad
of it, but that as it was yet too green for them, the loss was
not so great, but that the remainder was like to be a good
crop if it could be saved.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away I '
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees ,
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and
the event proved it to be so; for as I walked OE as if I
was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight but they
dropped down one by one into the corn again. I was so
provoked that I could not have patience to stay till more
came on, knowing that every grain that they eat'now was,
as it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the consequence;
but coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three
of them. This was what I wished for; so I took them up
and served them as we serve notorious thieves in Eng-
land, viz., hanged them in chains for a terror to others; it
is impossible to imagine, almost, that this should have
such an efiect as it had; for the fowls would not only not
come at the corn but, in short, they forsook all that part
of the island and I could never see a bird near the place
as long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of, you may be sure, and about
the latter end of December, which was our second har-
vest of the year, I reaped my crop.

I was sadly, put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I
could out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which.
I saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as my
first crop was but small, I had no great dificulty to cut it
down; in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off
but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at
the end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my half
peek of seed I had near two bushels of rice and above
two bushels and a half of barley, that is to say, by my
guess, for I had no measure at that time. _

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and
'I foresaw that in time it would please God to supply me
with bread. And yet here I was perplexed again, for I
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, or
indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made into meal,
how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my
desire of having a good quantity for store, and to secure a
constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop,
but to preserve it all for seed against the next season, and
in the meantime to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing my-
self with com and bread.

It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread;

'tis a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon, viz.,' the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing,
dressing, making, and finishing this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
this to my daily discouragement and was made more and
more sensible of it every hour, even after I had got the
first handful of seed-com, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no spade or
shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making a
wooden spade, as I observed before; but this did my work
in but a wooden manner, and though it cost me a great
many days to make it, yet for want of iron it not only
wore out the sooner, but made my work the harder and
made it be performed much worse.

However, this I bore with, and was content to work it
out with patience and bear with the badness of the per-
formance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow
but was forced to go over it myself and drag a great heavy
bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called,
rather than rake or barrow it.

When it was growing and grown, I have observed al
ready how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it,
mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash, part it
from the chaff and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind
it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread
and an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did with-
out, as shall be observed; and yet the corn was an in-
estimable comfort and advantage to me too. All this, as I
said, made everything laborious and tedious to me, but
that there was no help for; neither was my time so much
loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part of
it was every day appointed to these works; and as I re-
solved to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater
quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply my-
self wholly by labor and invention to furnish myself with
utensils proper for the performing all the operations nec-
essary for the making the corn (when I had it) fit for
my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this,
I had a week's work at least to make me a spade, which
when it was done was but a sorry one indeed, and very
heavy, and required double labor to work with it; how-
ever, I went through that and sowed my seed in .two large
flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find
them to my mind. and fenced them in with a good hedge,
the stakes of which were all cut of that wood which I had
set before, and knew it would grow; so that in one year's
time I knew I should have a quick or living hedge that
would want but little repair. This work was nogso little as
to take me up less than three months, because great part
of that time was of the wet season, when I could not go
abroad.

Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occasions;
always observing, that all the while I was at work I di-
verted myself with talking to my parrot and teaching him
to speak, and I quickly learned him to know his own name
and at last to speak it out pretty loud, "Poll," which was
the first word I ever heard spoken in the island by any
mouth but my own. This therefore was not my work, but
an assistant to my work, for now, as I said, I had a great
employment upon my hand, as follows, viz., I had long
studied, by some means or other, to make myself some
earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew
not where to come at them. However, considering the
heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find
out any such clay, I might botch up some such pot, as
might, being dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong
enough to bear handling, and to hold anything that was
dry, and required to be kept so; and as this was necessary
in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I
was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could
and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put
into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this
paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not
being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only re-
moving, as well before as after they were dried; and in a
word, how after having labored hard to find the clay, to
dig it, to temper it, to bring it home and work it, I could
not make above two large earthen ugly things, I cannot
call them jars, in about two months' labor.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, that they might not break, and as be-
tween the pot and the basket there was a little room to
spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw, and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would
hold my dry corn and perhaps the meal, when the corn
was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and
pipkins, and any things my hand turned to; and the heat
of the sun baked them strangely hard. '

But all this would not answer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid and bear the
fire, which none of these could do. It happened after
some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when I went to put it out after I had done with it,
I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels
in the fire, burnt as hard as a'stone, and red as a tile. I
was agreeably surprised to see it and said to myself that
certame they might be made to burn whole, if they
would burn broken.

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as to
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln such
as the potters burn in or of glazing them with lead,
though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed three
large pipkins and two or three pots in a pile one upon
another and placed my firewood all round it with a great
heap of embers under them; I plied the fire with fresh
fuel round the outside and upon the top, till I saw the
pots in the inside red hot quite through, and observed
that they did not crack at all; when I saw them clear red,
I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours, till I
found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run, for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted
by the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass
if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually till the
pots began to abate of the red color; and watching them
all night that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in
the morning I had three very good, I will not say hand-
some, pipkins and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt
as could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed
with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any-
one may suppose, when I had no way of making them but
as the children make dirt pies or as a woman would make
pies that never learned to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that
would bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay till
they were cold, before I set one upon the fire again, with
some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did ad-
mirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made some
very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and several
other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would
have had it been.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some com in; for as to the mill, there: was no
thought at arriving to that perfection of art with 'bne pair
of hands. To supply this want I was at a great loss; for of
all trades in the world I was as perfectly unqualified for a
stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither had I any tools
to go about it with. I spent many a day to find out a
great stone .big enough to cut hollow and make fit for
a mortar, and could find none at all, except what was in
the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut
out; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness
suificient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which
neither would hear the weight of a heavy pestle or would
break the com without filling it with sand; '50 after a great
deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over,
and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood,
which I found indeed much easier; and getting one as
big as I had strength to 5151', I rounded it, and formed it in
the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then with the
help of fire, and infinite labor, made a hollow place in it,
as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I
made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called
the iron-wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I
had my next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to
grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal, to make my
bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or scarce, to
dress my meal and to part it from the bran and the husk,
without which I did not see is possible I could have any
bread. This was a most dificult thing, so much as but to
think on; for to be sure, I had nothing like the necessary
thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvas or stuff, to searce
the meal through. And here I was at a full stop for many
months, nor did I really know what to do; linen I had
none left, but what was mere rags; I had goats' hair, but
neither knew I how to weave it or spin it; and had I
known how, here was no tools to work it with; all the
remedy that I found for this was that at last I did remem-
her I had among the seamen's clothes which were saved
out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and
with some pieces of these, I made three small sieves, but
proper enough for the work; and thus I made shift for
some years. How I did afterwards, I shall show in its
lace.
P The baking part was the next thing to be considered
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn;
for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part, as there was no
supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it; but for an oven I was indeed in great pain; at
length I found out an experiment for that also, which was
this; I made some earthen vessels very broad, but not
deep; that is to say, about two feet diameter, and not
above nine inches deep; these I burnt in the fire, as I had
done the other, and laid them by; and when I wanted to
bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which I had
aved with some square tiles of my own making and
uming also; but I should not call them square.

When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so
as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie, till the
hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers,
I set down my loaf, or loaves, and whelming down the
earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all round the
outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became in little time a mere pastry--
cook into the bargain; for I made myself several cakes
of the rice and puddings; indeed I made no pies, neither
had I anything to put into them, supposing I had, except
the flesh either of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me
up most part of the third year of my abode here; for it is
to be observed that in the intervals of these things, I hadMY DESIRE TO VENTURE OVER THE MAIN 137'
my new harvest and husbandry to manage; for I reaped

my corn in its season and carried it home as well as I
could and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till

I had time to rub it out; for I had no floor to thrash it on,

or instrument to thrash it with.

And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay
it up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me so
much that I had of the barley about twenty bushels and
of the rice as much or more; insomuch that now I re-
solved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had been
quite gone a great while; also I resolved to see what
quantity would be suficient for me a whole year, and to
sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice was much more than I could consume in
a year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every
year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity
would fully provide me with bread, etc. '

My Desire to Venture Over the Main

 

ALL the while these things were doing, you may be sure
my thoughts run many times upon the prospect of land
which I had seen from the other side of the island, and
I was not without secret wishes that I were on shore
there, fancying that seeing the mainland and an inhab-
ited country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of
esca e.

BlIllZ all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to
think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That

/ .

I
if I once came into their power, I should run a hazard
more than a thousand to one of being killed and perhaps
of being eaten; for I had heard that the people of the
Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or man-eaters, and I
knew by the latitude that I could not be far off from that
shore. That suppose they were not cannibals, yet that they
might kill me, as many Europeans who had fallen into
their hands had been served, even when they had been
ten or twenty together; much more I, that was but one,
and could make little or no defense. All these things, I
say, which I ought to have considered well of and did
cast up in my thoughts afterwards yet took up none of
my apprehensions at first; but my head run mightily upon
the thought of getting over to the shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury and the longboat with
the shoulder-of-mutton sail with which I sailed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in
vain. Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's
boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore
a great way in the storm, when we were first cast away.
She lay almost where she did at first, but not quite; and
was turned by the force of the waves and the winds al-
most bottom upward against a high ridge of beachy rough
sand; but no water about her as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils
with her easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I
could no more turn her and set her upright upon her
bottom than I could remove the island. However, I went
to the woods and cut levers and rollers and brought them
to the boat, resolved to try what I could do, suggesting
to myself that if I could but turn her down, I might easily
repair the damage she had received, and she would be a
Very good boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil
and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it; at last
finding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength,
I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it and so to
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and
guide it right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get under it, much less to move it forward
towards the water; so I was forced to give it over; and yet,
though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to
venture over for the main increased, rather than de-
creased, as the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not
possible to make myself a canoe, or pedagua, such as the '
natives of those climates make, even without tools, or, as
I might say, without hands, viz., of the trunk of a great
tree. This I not only thought possible but easy, and
pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making it
and with my having much more convenience for it than
any of the Negroes or Indians; but not at all considering
the particular inconveniences which I lay under, more
than the Indians did, viz., want of hands to move it, when
it was made, into the water, a difficulty much harder
for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of
tools could be to them; for what was it to me, that when
I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, I might with much
trouble cut it down, if after I might be able with my tools
to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a
boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow, so
to make a boat of it--if after all this, I must leave it just
there where I found it, and was not able to launch it into
the water?

One would have thought I could not have had the least
reflection upon my mind of my circumstance, while I was
making this boat; but I should have immediately thought
how I should get it into the sea; but my thoughts were so
intent upon my voyage over the sea in it that I never once
considered how I should get it off of the land; and was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide it over
forty-five miles of sea than about forty-five fathoms of
land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that
ever man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased
myself with the design, without determining whether I
was ever able to undertake it; not but that the difliculty
of launching my boat came often into my head; but I put
a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer
which I gave myself, "Let's first make it; I'll warrant I'll
find some way or other to get it along, when 'tis done."

This was a most preposterous method; but the eager-
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled
a cedar tree. I question much whether Solomon ever had
such a one for the building of the Temple at'Jerusalem.
It was five foot ten inches diameter at the lower part
next the stump and four foot eleven inches diameter at
the end of twenty-two foot, after which it lessened for a
while, and then parted into branches. It was not without
infinite labor that I felled this tree. I was twenty days
hacking and hewing at it at the bottom. I was fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spread-
ing head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed through
with axe and hatchet and inexpressible labor. After this,
it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion,
and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it so as to make
an exact boat of it. This I did indeed without fire, by
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till
I had brought it to be a very handsome periagua and big
enough to have carried six and twenty men, and conse-
quently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than \
I ever saw a canoe, or periagua, that was made of one
tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may
be sure; and there remained nothing but to get it into the
water; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no ques-
tion but I should have begun the maddest voyage and
the most unlikely to be performed that ever was under-
taken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
though they cost me infinite labor, too. It lay about one
hundred yards from the water, and not more. But the first
inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the creek; well,
to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into
the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity. This I
begun, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who
grudges pains, that have their deliverance in view? But
when this was worked through, and this difficulty man-
aged, it was still much at one; for I Could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved
to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water.
Well, I began this work; and when I began to enter into
it and mlculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad,
how the stuff to be thrown out, I found that by the num-
ber of hands I had, being none but my own, it must have
been ten or twelve years before I should have gone
through with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the
upper end it must have been at least twenty foot deep;
so at length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this
attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though too
late,-the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost and before we judge rightly of our owu strength to
go through with it.
" In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in
\_\this place, and kept my anniversary with 333.1621"me
tion and with as much comfort as ever before; for by a
constant study, and serious application of the Word of
God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained a dif-
ferent knowledge from what I had before. I entertained
different notions of things. I looked now upon the world
as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no
expectation from, and, indeed, no desires about. In a
word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever
like to have; so, I thought, it looked as we may perhaps
look upon it hereafter, viz., as a place I had lived in but
was come out of it; and well might I say, as Father Abra-
ham to Dives, "Between me and thee is a great gulf
fixed."

In the first place, I was removed from all the wicked-
ness of the world here. I had neither the lust of the flesh,
the lust of the eye or the pride of life. I had nothing to
covet; for I had all that I was now capable of enjoying.
I was lord of the whole manor; or if I pleased, I might
call myself king, or emperor over the whole country
which I had possession of. There were no rivals. I had no
competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with
me. I might have raised shiploadings of corn; but I had
no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough
for my occasion. I had tortoise or turtles enough; but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any use. I had
timber enough to have built a fleet of ships. I had grapes
enough to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins,
to have loaded that fleet, when they had been built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable.
I had enough to eat, and to supply my wants, and what
was all the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I c0uld
eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin. If I sowed more
com than I could eat, it must be spoiled. The trees that I
cut down were lying to rot on the ground. I could make
no more use of them than for fuel; and that I had no
occasion for but to dress my food.

In .a. we
to WWWs

WWW
Illll l .1".

use; and ever we m
OIHQWWWW
The most covetous griping Imser in e wor wou ave
been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he had been in
my case; for I posessed infinitely more than I knew what
to do with. I had not room for desire, except it was of
things which I had not, and they were but trifles, though
indeed of great use to me. I had, as I hinted before, a
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six
pounds sterling. Alas! There the nasty, sorry, useless stuff
lay; I had no manner of business for it; and I often
thought with myself that I would have given a handful
of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes or for a hand-mill to
grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all for sixpenny-
worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England or for a
handful of peas and beans and a bottle of ink. As it was,
I had not the least advantage by it or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer and grew moldy with the damp of
the cave in the wet season; and if I had had the drawer
full of diamonds, it had been the same case; and they had
been of no manner of value to me because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier
in itself than it was at first and much easier to my mind,
as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to my meat
with thankfulness and admired the hand of God's provi-
dence, which had thus spread my table in the wilder-
ness. .-I learned to look more upon the bright side of my
condition and less upon the dark side and to consider
what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted; and this gave
me sometimes such secret comforts that I cannot express
them; and which I take notice of here, to put those dis-
contented people in mind of it who cannot enjoy com-
fortable what God had given them because the see and
covet something that He has not given them. All our dis~
contents about what we want appeared to me to spring
from the want of thankfulness for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me and doubt-
less would be so to anyone that should fall into such
distress as mine was; and this was to compare my present
condition with what I at first expected it should be; nay,
with what it would certame have been, if the good provi-
dence of God had not wonderquy ordered the ship to be
cast up nearer to the shore, where I not only could come
at her but could bring what I got out of her to the shore
for my relief and comfort; without which, I had wanted
for tools to work, weapons for defense, or gunpowder
and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the most lively colors, how I must
have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship. How I
could not have so much as got any food, except fish and
turtles; and that, as it was long before I found any of
them, I must have perished first. That I should have lived,
if I had not perished, like a mere savage. That if I had
killed a goat, or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way
to flay or open them, or part the flesh from the skin and
the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it with my
teeth and pull it with my claws like a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the good-
ness of Providence to me and very thankful for my pres-
ent condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes. And
this part also I cannot but recommend to the reflection
of those who are apt in their misery to say, "Is any
affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse
the cases of some people are and their case might have
been, if Providence had thought fit.

I had another reflection which assisted me also to com-
fort my mind with hopes; and this was comparing my
present condition with what I had deserved and had
therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence.
I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well instructed by
father and mother; neither had they been wanting to me
in their early endeavors to infuse a religious awe of God
into my mind, a sense of my duty and of what the nature
and end of my being required of me. But alas! falling
early into the seafaring life, which of all the lives is the ,
most destitute of the fear of God, though His terrors are
always before them; I say, falling early into the seafaring
life and into seafaring company, all that little sense of
religion which I had entertained was laughed out of me
by my messmates; by a hardened despising of dangers
and the views of death, which grew habitual to me; by my
long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse
with anything but what was like myself or to hear any-
thing that was good or tended towards it.

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the
least sense of what I was or was to be, that in the greatest
deliverances I'enjoyed, such as my escape from Sallee,
my being taken up by the Portuguese master of the ship,
my being planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving the
cargo from England and the like, I never had once the
words, "Thank God," as much as on my mind or in my
mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much a
thought to pray to Him or so much as to say, "Lord, have
mercy upon me"; no, nor to mention the name of God,
unless it was to swear by and blaspheme it.I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many

months,SS1_have.already_.elSSSSY=Y=9SSa 0" the 3'53993'3'5? my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I lookedabout
me and considered what particular providences had at-
tended me since my coming into this place, and how God
had dealt bounfifully With. meshed not only Punishej'me
less than my iniquity had deserved, but had so @311thtu
provided for me;~this gaye_mg great hopes _that my re-

pentance was accepted, and-that God'uh'adje't'm'ercy in

store for me.

With these reflections I worked my mind up not only
to resignation to the will of God in the present disposi-
tion of my circumstances but even to a sincere thankful-
ness for my condition; and that 'I, who was yet a living
man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due
punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies
which I had no reason to have expected in that place;
that I ought never more to repine at my condition but to
rejoice and to give daily thanks for that daily bread,
which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought. That I ought to consider I had been fed even
by miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by
ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I could
hardly have named a place in the unhabitable part of the
world where I could have been cast more to my ad-
vantage. A place, where as I had no society, which was
my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beast,
no furious wolves or tigers to threaten my life, no
venomous creatures or poisonous which I might feed on
to my hurt, no savages to murder and devour me.

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so
.it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to
make it a life of comfort but to be able to make my sense
of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condi-
tion, be my daily consolation; and after I did make a just-

improvement of these things, I went away and was no
more sad.

I had now been here so long that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or
very much wasted and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all
but a very little, which I eked out with water, a little and
a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any appearance of
black upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of
it to minute down the days of the month on which any
remarkable thing happened to me; and first, by casting up
times past, I remember that there was a strange concur-
rence of days in the various providences which befell- me
and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to ob-
serve days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason
to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends and ran away to
Hull in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I
was taken by the Sallee man-of-war and made a slave.

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat.

The same day of the year I was born on, viz., the 30th
of September, that same day I had my life so miraculously
saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore
in this island; so that my wicked life and my solitary life
begun both on a day.

The next thing to my ink's being wasted was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship.
This I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself
but one cake of bread a day for above a year, and yet I
was quite without bread for near a year before I got any
corn of my own, and great reason I had to be thankful
that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has been al-
ready observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes began to decay, too, mightily. As to linen, I
had none a good while, except some checkered shirts
which I found in the chests of the other seamen, and
which I carefully preserved, because many times I could
bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very
great help to me that I had among all the men's clothes
of the ship almost three dozen of shirts. There were also
several thick watch coats of the seamen's, which were left
indeed, but they were too hot to wear; and though it is
true that the weather was so violent hot that there was
no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked; no,
though I had been inclined to it, which I was not, nor
could abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.

The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I could
not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked,
as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently
blistered my skin; whereas with a shirt on, the air itself
made some motion and, whistling under that shirt, was
twofold cooler than without it. No more could I ever
bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a
cap or a hat; the heat of the sun, heating with such
violence as it does in that place, would give me the head-
ache presently, by darting so directly on my head, with-
out a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas,
if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon those views I began to cansider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order;
I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business
was now to try if I could not make jackets out of the great
watch coats which I had by me, and with such other
materials as I had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather
indeed a-botching, for I made most piteous work of it.
However, I made shift to make two or three new waist-
coats, which I hoped would serve me a great while; as for
breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift in-
deed till afterward.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the crea-
tures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had
hung them up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by
which means some of them were so dry and hard that
they were fit for little, but others it seems were very use-
ful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for my
head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain;
and this I performed so well, that after this I made me
a suit of clothes wholly of these skins, that is to say, a
waistcoat, and breeches open at knees, and both loose,
for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to
keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they
were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I
was a worse tailor. However, they were such as I made
very good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it hap-
pened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being
outermost, I was kept very dry.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one,
and had a great mind to make one; I had seen them made
in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the great
heats which are there. And I felt the heats every jot as
great here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox; be>>
sides as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most
useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took
a world of pains at it, and was a great while before I
could make anything likely to hold; nay, after I thought
I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three before I made
one to my mind; but at last I made one that answered
indifierently well. The main difficulty I found was to
make it to let down. I could make it to spread, but if it
did not let down too and draw in, it was not portable for
me any way but just over my head, which would not do.
However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer and
covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off

. the rains like a penthouse and kept OE the sun so ef'
fectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the
weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest, and when I had no need of it, could close it
and carry it under my arm.

Sailing Round the Island

 

THUS I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being en-
tirely composed by resigning to the will of God and throw-
ing myself wholly upon the disposal of His Providence.
This made my life better than sociable, for when I began
to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself
whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts
and, as I hope I may say, with even God Himself, by
ejaculations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of
human society in the world.

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraor-
dinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the same
course, in the same posture and place, just as before; the
chief thing I was employed in, besides my yearly labor
of planting my barley and rice and curing my raisins,
of both which I always kept up just enough to have suf-
ficient stock of one year's provisions beforehand; I say,
besides this yearly labor and my daily labor of going out
with my gun, I had one labor, to make me a canoe, which
at last I finished. So that by digging a canal to it of six
foot wide, and four foot deep, I brought it into the creek,
almost half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastlySAILING ROUND THE; ISLAND 151

big, as I made it without considering beforehand, as I
ought to do, how I should be able to launch it; so, never '
being able to bring it to the water, or bring the water to
it, I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memo-
randum to teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, the
next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and
in a place where I could not get the water to it at any less
distance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet as I
saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over; and
though I was near two years about it, yet I never grudged
my labor, in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at
last.

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design which
I had in view, when I made the first; I mean, of venturing
over to the term firm, where it was above forty miles
broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to
put an end to that design, and now I thought no more of
it. But as I had a boat, my next design was to make a tour
round the island; for as I had been on the other side in
one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over
the land, so the discoveries I made in that little journey
made me very eager to see other parts of the coast; and
now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round
the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with dis-
cretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of
the ship's sail, which lay in store, and of which I had a
great stock by me.

Having fitted my mast and sail and tried the boat, I
found she would sail very well. Then I made little lockers,
or boxes, at either end of my boat, to put provisions, nec-
essaries and ammunition, etc., into, to be kept dry, either
from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little long hollow
place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my
gun, making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the
sun off of me like an awning; and thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea but never went far
out, nor far from the little creek; but at last being eager
to view the circumference of my little kingdom, I re-
solved upon my tour and accordingly I victualed my
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves
(cakes I sh0uld rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great deal
of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat and powder and shot
for killing more, and two large watch coats, of those
which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the
seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and the
other to cover me in the night.

' / It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my

reign, or my captivity, which you please, fliafrsaout on
this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected;
for though the island itself was not very large, yet when
I came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of
rocks lie out above two leagues into the sea, some above
water, some under it, and beyond that, a shoal of sand
lying dry half a league more; so that I was obliged to go
a great way out to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over
my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how
far it might oblige me to go out to sea; and above all,
doubting how I should get back again; so I came to an
anchor; for I had made me a kind of an anchor with a
piece of a broken grappling, which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on

shore, climbing up upon a hill, which seemed to overlook
.f >2

SAILING ROUND THE ISLAND 153

that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved
to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I
perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current,
which run to the east, and even came close to the point;
and I took the more notice of it, because I saw there
might be some danger that when I came into it, I might
be carried out to sea by the strength of it and not be able
to make the island again; and indeed, had I not gotten
first up upon this hill, I believe it would have been so;
for there was the same current on the other side the
island, only that it set off at a farther distance; and I saw
there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had nothing
to do but to get in out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy.

I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blow-
ing prettyfresh at east-southeast, and that being just con-
trary to the said current, made a great breach'bf the'sea
upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too

close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off
because of the stream.

The third day in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a
warning piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for
no sooner was I come to the point, when even I was not
my boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a
great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a .
mill. It carried my boat along with it with such violence
that all I could do could not keep her so much as on the
edge of it; but I found it hurried me farther and farther
out from the eddy, which was on my left hand. There was
no wind stirring to help me, and all I could do with my
paddles signified nothing; and now I began to give my-
self over for lost; for as the current was on both sides of
the island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I
see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect
before me but of perishing; not by the sea, for that was
calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift,
and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of
fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but
'what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean,
'Efwhere, to be sure, there was no shore, no mainland or
I island, for a thousand leagues at least?

And now I saw how easy it was for the Providence of
God to make the most miserable condition mankind could
be in worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate solitary
island as the most pleasant place in the world, and all the
happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there
again. I stretched out my hands to it, with eager wishes.
"0 happy desert!" said I, "I shall never see thee more.
0 miserable creature," said I, "whither am I going?"
Then I reproached myself with my unthankful temper
and how I had repined at my solitary condition; and now
what would I give to be on shore there again! Thus we
never see the true state of our condition till it is illustrated
to us by its contraries; nor know how to value what we
enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarce possible to
imagine the consternation I was now in, being driven
from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now
to be) into the wide ocean almost two leagues, and in the
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost ex-
hausted, and kept my boat as much to the northward,
that is, towards the side of the current which the eddy lay
on, as possibly I could; when about noon, as the sun
passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of
wind in my face, springing up from the south-southeast.
This cheered my heart a little and especially when, inl .r)'. -. as

SAILING ROUND THE ISLAND 155'

about half an hour more, it blew a pretty small gentler
gale. By this time I was gotten at a frightful distance
from the island, and had the least cloud or hazy weather
intervened, I had been undone another way too; for I had
no compass on board, and should never have known how
to have steered towards the island, if I had but once lost
sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I applied

myself to get up my mast again and spread my sail,'

standing away to the north as much as possible, to get out
of the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the cleamess of the water
some alteration of the current was near; for where the
current was so strong, the water was foul; but perceiving
the water clear, I found the current abate, and presently
I found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the
sea upon some rocks; these rocks I found caused the
current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran
away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the northeast,
so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks and made
a strong eddy, which run back again to the northwest,
with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought
to them upon the ladder or to be rescued from thieves
just a-going to murder them, or who have been in such
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise of
joy was and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of
this eddy, and the wind also freshening, how gladly I
spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind
and with a strong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried
me away at first; so that when I came near the island, I
found myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to
l

156 ROBINSON CRUSOE ,
say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which I

3 went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
spent and served me no farther. However, I found that
being between the two great currents, viz., that on the
south side, which had hurried me away, and that on the
north, which lay about a league on the other side: I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the
water at least still and running no way, and having still a
breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for
the island, though not making such fresh way as I did
before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
about a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching out, as is
described before, to the southward, and casting off the
current more southwardly, had of course made another
eddy to the north, and this I found very strong, but not
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due
west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh gale,
I stretched across this eddy, slanting northwest, and in
about an hour came within about a mile of the shore,
where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all
thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing
myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat close
to the shore in a little cove that I had spied under some
trees and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labor and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
the case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out,
and what might be at the other side (I mean the west
side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more
ventures; so I only resolved in the morning to make my
way westward along the shore and to see if there was no
creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to
' have her again if I wanted her; in about three miles, or
there about, coasting the shore, I came to a very good
inlet or bay about a mile over, which narrowed till it came
to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very
convenient harbor for my boat and where she lay as if
she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her.
Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I .
went on shore to look about me and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I traveled on foot to that
shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and
my umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where I found everything standing as I
left it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I said
before, my country house.

I got over the fence and laid me down in the shade to
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But
judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise
I must be in, when I was waked out of my sleep by a,
voice calling me by my name several times, "Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you,
Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been?"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row-
ing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day
and with walking the latter part that I did not wake
thoroughly, but dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But as
the voice continued to repeat "Robin Crusoe, Robin'l
Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly and was\
at first dreadfufly frighted and started up in the utmost
consternation. But no sooner were my eyes open, but I
saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge; and im-
mediately knew that it was he that spoke to me; for just
in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him,
and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly that he
would sit upon my finger and lay his bill close to my
face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you?
Where have you been? How come you here?" and such
things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed how
the creature got thither and then, how he should just
keep about the place and nowhere else. But as I was well
satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over;
and holding out my hand, and calling him by his name,
"Poll," the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my
thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me,
"Poor Robin Crusoe!" and how did I come here? and
where had I been? just as if he had been overjoyed to
see me again; and so I carried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time
and had enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect
upon the danger I had been in. I would have been very
glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island;
but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As
to the east side of the island, which I had gone round, I
laiew well enough there was no venturing that way; my
very heart would shrink and my very blood run chill but
to think of it. And as to the other side of the island, I did
not know how it might be there; but supposing the cur-
rent ran with the same force against the shore at the east
as it passed by it on the other, I might run the same riskA VERY SEDATE RETIRED LIFE 159

of being driven down the stream, and carried by the
island, as I had been before of being carried away from
it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be with-
out any boat, though it had been the product of so many
months' labor to make it, and of so many more to get it
unto the sea.

A Very Sedate Retired Life

IN THIS government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, refired life, as you may well sup-
pose; and my thoughts being very much composed as to
my condition and fully comforted in resigning myself to
the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really
very happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic ex- 5

ercises which my necessities put me upon applying my- ,

self to and I believe could, upon occasion, make a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I
had. i
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in
my earthenware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and
better; because I made things round and shapable which
before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think I
was never more vain of my own performance, or more
joyful for anything I found out, than for my being able
to make a tobacco-pipe. And though it was a very ugly,
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red, like
other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for
I had been always used to smoke and there were pipes in p
the ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing that there
was tobacco in the island; and afterwards, when I
searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes
at all.

In my wickerware also I improved much and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention
showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were
such as were very handy and convenient for my laying
things up in, or fetching things home in. For example, if
I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it
and dress it and cut it in pieces and bring it home in a
basket; and the like by a turtle, I could cut it up, take out
the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket, and
leave the rest behind me. Also large deep baskets were
my receivers for my corn, which I always mbbed out as
soon as it was dry and cured and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably, and this was a want which it was impossible
for me to supply; and I began seriously to consider what
I must do when I should have no more powder; that is to
say, how I should do to kill any goat. I had, as is observed
in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid, and
bred her up tame, and I was in hope of getting a he-goat;
but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid
grew an old goat; and I could never find in my heart
to kill her, till she died at last of mere age.

, = But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to
see whether I could not catch some of them alive, and
particularly, I wanted a she-goat great with young.

To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and I
do believe they were more than once taken in them, but
my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always
found them broken and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall, so I dug several
large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed
the goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed
hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight
upon them; and several times I put ears of barley and dry
rice, without setting the trap, and I could easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I
could see the mark of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found
them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This
was very discouraging. However, I altered my trap, and,
not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning
to see my trap, I found in one of them a large old he-goat,
and in one of the other, three kids, a male and two fe-
males.

As to the old one, I lmew not what to do with him, he
was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to
say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was what
I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was not my
business, nor would it answer my end. So I e'en let him
out, and he ran away, as if he had been frighted out of
his wits. But I had forgot then what I learned afterwards,
that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay there
three or four days without food and then have carried
him some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would
have-been as tame asone of the kids, for they are mighty
sagacious, tractable creatures where they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I went to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, I tied them with strings together
and with some dificulty brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed, but throw-
ing them some sweet corn, it tempted them and they be-
gan to be tame; and now I found that if I expected to
supply myself with goat-flesh when I had no powder or
shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when
perhaps I might have them about my house like a flock
of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up, and the only way for this was
to have some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced either
with hedge or pale, to keep them in so eEectually that
those within might not break out, or those without
break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands, yet
as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my
first piece of work was to find a proper piece of ground,
viz., where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat,
water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from
the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I
had very little conuivance, when I pitched upon a place
very proper for all these, being a plain open piece of
meadow land, or savanna (as our people call it in the
western colonies), which had two or three little drills of
fresh water in it and at one end was very woody. I say,
they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I
began my enclosing of this piece or ground in such a
manner that my hedge or pale must have been at least
two mile about. Nor was the madness of it so great as to
the compass, for if it was ten mile about, I was like to
have time enough to do it in. But I did not consider that
my goats would be as wild in so much compass as if
they had had the whole island, and I should have so
much room to chase them in that I should never catch
them. -

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about
fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me, so I pres-
ently stopped short and for the first beginning I resolved
to enclose a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100
yards in breadth, which, as it would maintain as many
as I should have in any reasonable time, so, as my flock
increased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to

_ work with courage. I was about three months hedging 1n
the first piece, and till I had done it I tethered the three
kids in the best part of it and used them to feed as near
me as possible to make them familiar; and very often I
would go and carry them some ears of barley or a handful
of rice and feed them out of my hand; so that after my
enclosure was finished and I let them loose, they would
follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful
of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half '
I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in
two years more I had three and forty, besides several that
I took and killed for my food. And after that I enclosed
five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little
pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and
gates out of one piece of ground into another.

But this was not all, for now I not only had goat's flesh
to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which
indeed in my beginning I did not so much as think of,
and which, when it came into my thoughts, was really an
agreeable surprise. For now I set up my dairy and had
sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature,
dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so I that had
never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter
or cheese made, very readily and handily, though after a
great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last and never wanted it afterwards.

How mercifufly can our great Creator treat His crea- '
tures, even in those conditions in which they seemed to
be overwhelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the
bitterest providences and give us cause to praise Him for
dungeons and prisons! What a table was here spread for
me in a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to
perish for hunger!

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner; there was my majesty,
the prince and _l_o_rd~o_f the whole island; I had the lives of

all my subjects at my absolute command. I could'ha'hwg,
draw, give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among

allm sub'ects.
Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone, at-
tended by my servants; Poll, as if he had been my

favorite, was the only person permitted to talk to me. My
" dog, who was now grown very old and crazy and had
i found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at
' my right hand, and two cats, one on one side the table
Land one on the other, expecting now and then a bit from
my hand, as a mark of special favor.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead and had
been interred near my habitation by my own hand; but
one of them having multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, these were two which I had preserved tame,
whereas the rest run wild in the woods and became in-
deed troublesome to me at last; for they would often come
into my house and plunder me too, till at last I was ob-
liged to shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length
they left me with this attendance, and in this plentiful
manner, I lived; neither could I be said to want anything
but society, and of that in some time after this, I was like
to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have
the use of my boat, though very loath to run any more
hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways
to gether about the island, and at other times I sat my-
self down contented enough without her. But I had a
strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point
of the island where, as I have said, in my last ramble I
went up the hill to see how the shore lay and how the
current set that I might see what I had to do. This inclina-
tion increased upon me every day, and at length I re-
solved to travel thither by land; following the edge of the
shore I did so. But had anyone in England been to meet
such a man as I was, it must either have frighted them or
raised a great deal of laughter; and as I frequently stood
still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion
of my traveling through Yorkshire with such an equipage

and in such a dress. .Bepleased W

figu'rgasiel-lows:
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goatskin;

with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the
sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running into
my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as
the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goatskin, the skirts coming down
to about the middle of my thighs; and a pair of open-
kneed breeches of the same; the breeches were made of
the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a
length on either side that, like pantaloons, it reached to
the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes I had none,
but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and
lace on either side like spatterdashes; but of a most bar-_
barons shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goatskin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a
sword and a dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one
on one side, one on the other. I had another belt, not so
broad and fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm,
hung two pouches, both made of goatskin too; in one of
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back
I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over
my head a great clumsy ugly goatskin umbrella, but
which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had about
me, next to my gun. As for my face, the color of it was
really not so Mulatto like as one might expect from a man
not at an careful of it and living within nineteen degrees
of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow
till it was about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both
scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, ex-
cept what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed
into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn by some Turks who I saw at Sallee; for the
Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did; of these
mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a
length and shape monstrous enough and such as in Eng-
land would have passed for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for as to my figure, I had so
few to observe me that it was of no manner of conse-
quence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six
days. I traveled first along the seashore, directly to the
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor, to get
up upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take care
of, I went over the land a nearer way to the same height
that I was upon before, when, looking forward to the
point of the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged
to double with my boat, as is said above, I was surprised
to see the sea all smooth and quiet, no rippling, no mo-
tion, no current, any more there than in other places.

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolvedto spend some time in the obsewing it, to see if nothing
from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was
presently convinced how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb
setting from the west and joining with the current of
waters from some great river on the shore must be the
occasion of this current; and that according as the wind
blew more forcibly from the west or from the north, this
current came near, or went farther from the shore; for
waiting there abouts till evening, I went up to the rock
again, and then the tide of the ebb being made, I lainly
saw the current again as before, only that it run arther
off, being near half a league from the shore; whereas in -
my case it set close upon the shore, and hurried me and
my canoe along with it, which at another time it would
not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide,
and I might very easily bring my boat about the island
again. But when I began to think of putting it in practice,
I had such a terror upon my spirits at the remembrance
of the danger I had been in that I could not think of it
again with any patience; but on the contrary, I took up
another resolution, which was more safe, though more
laborious; and this was that I would build, or rather make
me another periagua, or canoe; and so have one for one
side of the island and one for the other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may call i
two plantations in the island; one my little fortification o
tent, with the wall about it under the rock, with the cav
behind me, which by this time I had enlarged into sever
apartments, or eaves, one within another. One of these
which was the driest and largest, and had a door out be'
yond my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond where
my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up'with the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with
fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five
or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of provi-
sion, especially my com, some in the ear cut off short from
the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes, or
piles, those piles grew all like trees and were by this time
grown so big and spread so very much that there was not
the least appearance to any one's view of any habitation
behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine but a little farther within
the land and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land
adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also; for first, I had my little
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say,
I kept the hedge which circled it in constantly fitted up
to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the in-
side; I kept the trees, which at first were no more than
my stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, I
kept them always so cut that they might spread and grow
thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade,
which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of
this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a
sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I
had made me a squab, or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed and with other soft things, and a
blanket laid on them such as belong to our seabedding,
which I had saved, and a great watch coat to cover me;
and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my
chief seat, I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that
is to say, my goats. And as I had taken an inconceivable
deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground, so I was
so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break
through, that I never left off till with infinite labor I had
struck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and
so near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a
hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand through
between them; which afterwards, when those stakes
grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made the
enclosure strong like a wall, indeed, stronger than any
wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared neces-
sary for my comfortable support; for I considered the
keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to
be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach de-
pended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to
such a degree that I might be sure of keeping them to-
gether; which by this method indeed, I so effectually
secured that when these little stakes began to grow, I had
planted them so very thick I was forced to pull some of
them up again. >

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as
the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and
indeed they were not agreeable only, but physical, whole-
some, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about halfway between my other
habitation and the place where I'had laid up my boat, I
generally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for I
used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order; sometimes
I went out in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous
voyages would I go nor scarce ever above a stone's cast
or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being
hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents, or
winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a new
scene of my life.

The Print of a M an's Naked Foot

\--

. IT HAPPENED one day about noon going towards my
; boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to
i be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as
if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked round me;
I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to a ris-
ing ground to look farther, I went up the shore and down
the shore, but it was all one, I could see no other im-
pression but that one. I went to it again to see if there
were any more and to observe if it might not be my
fancy; but there was no room for that; for there was ex-
actly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part
of a foot; how it came thither I knew not, nor could in the
least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts,
like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came
home to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on but terrified to the last degree, looking
behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every
bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance
to be a man; nor is it possible to describe how many
various shapes afirighted imagination represented things
to me in, how many wild ideas were found every moment
in my fancy, and what strange, unaccountable whimsies
came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it everTHE PRINT OF A MAN'S NAKED FOOT 171 I '

after this, I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
over by the ladder as first contrived, or went in at the hole
in the rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember;
no, nor c0uld I remember the next morning; for never
frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more
terror of mind than I to this retreat. .
I slept none that night; the farther I was from the \
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were,
which is something contrary to the nature of such things
and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear.
But I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas
of the thing that I formed nothing but dismal imagina-
tions to myself, even though I was now a great way off of
it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the Devil; and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition. For how should
any other thing in human shape come into the place?
Where was the vessel that brought them? What marks
were there of any other footsteps? And how was it pos-
sible a man should come there? But then to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a
place where there could be no manner of occasion for
it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that
even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I should
see it; this was an amusement the other way. I considered
that the Devil might have found out abundance of other
ways to have terrified me than this of the single print of
a foot. That as I lived quite on the other side of the island,
he would never have been so simple to leave a mark in a
place where 'twas ten thousand to one whether I should
ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first
surge of the sea upon a high wind would have defaced
entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the thing
itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of the
subtilty of the Devil. ' '
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me
out of all apprehensions of its being the Devil. And I pres-
ently concluded then that it must be some more dan-
gerous creature, viz., that it must be some of the savages
of the mainland over against me, who had wandered out
to sea in their canoes and either driven by the currents
or by contrary winds had made the island; and had been
on shore, but were gone away again to sea, being as loath,
perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I would
have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I
was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as
not to be thereabouts at that time or that they did not see
my boat, by which they would have concluded that some
inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps have
searched farther for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my
imagination about their having found my boat, and that
there were people here; and that if so, I should certame
have them come again in great numbers, and devour
me; that if it should happen so that they should not find
me, yet they would find my enclosure, destroy all my
corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I should

erish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon such
wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness, now
vanished, as if He that had fed me by miracle hitherto
could not preserve by His power the provision ,which He
had made for me by His goodness. I reproached myself
with my easiness, that would not sow any more com one
year than would just serve me till the next season, as if
no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the
crop that was upon the ground; and this I thought so
just a reproof that I resolved for the future to have two
or three y'ears' corn beforehand, so that whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.
How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life
of manl and by what secret difiering springs are the af-
fections hurried about as difiering circumstances present?
Today we love what to ow -
new we shun; toda

    
 
  

  
      

- :_ . rehensions of; this
was exemp ified in me at this time.in the most lively
manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was that
I seemed banished from human society, that I was alone,
circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off from man-
kind, and condemned to what I called silent life; that
I was as one who Heaven thought not worthy to be num-
bered among the living, or to appear among the rest of
His creatures; that to have seen one of my own species
would have seemed to me a raising me from death to life,
and the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the
supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that I
should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing
a man, and was ready to sink into the ground at but the
shadow or silent appearance of a man's having set his

' foot in the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life. And it afforded
me a great many curious speculations afterwards, when
I had a little recovered-my-first surprise; I considered that
this was the station of life the infinitely wise and good
providence of God had determined for me; that as I
could not foreSee what the ends of Divine wisdom might
be in all this,- so I was not to dispute His sovereignty,
who, as I was His creature, had an undoubted right by
creation to govern and dispose of me absolutely as He
thought fit; and who, as I was a creature who had of-
fended Him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me
to what punishment He thought fit; and that it was my
part to submit to bear His indignation, because I had
sinned against Him. -
I then reflected that God, who was not only righteous
but omnipotent, as He had thought fit thus to punish and
afllict me, so He was able to deliver me; that if He did
not think fit to do it, 'twas my unquestioned duty to re-
sign myself absolutely and entirely to His will; and on
the other hand, it was my duty also to hope in Him, pray
to Him, and quietly to attend the dictates and directions
of His daily providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I
may say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of
my cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz., one
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thought
about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found
it discomposed me very much, upon which those words
of the Scripture came into my thoughts, "Call upon Me
in the day of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt
glorify Me."

Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart
was not only comforted but I was guided and encouraged
to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. When I had
done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read,
the first words that presented to me were, "Wait on the
Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy
heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to ex-
press the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully
laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least not on
that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thought one day that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own; and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore
from my boat. This cheered me up a little too, and I
began to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was
nothing else but. my own foot; and why might not I come
that way from the boat, as well as I was going that way
to the boat? Again, I considered also that I could by no
means tell for certain where I had trod, and where I had
not; and that if at last this was only the print of my own
foot, I had played the part of those fools who strive to
make stories of specters and apparitions, and then are
frighted at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage and to peep abroad again,
for I had not su'rred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provision; for I had
little or nothing within doors, but some barley-cakes and
water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked
too, which usually was my evening diversion; and the
poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it; and indeed, it almost spoiled some of them,
and almost dried up their milk.

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and so I
might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began
to go abroad again, and went to my country house to
milk my flock; but to see with what fear I went forward,
how often I looked behind me, how I was ready every
now and then to lay down my basket, and run for my
life, it would have made anyone have thought I was
haunted With an evil conscience, or that I had been
lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had.

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but m own imagina-
tion. But I could not persuade myself fu y of this, till I
should go down to the shore again, and see this print
of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there
was any similitude or fitness, that I might be assured it
was my own foot. But when I came to the place, first, it
appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my boat, I
could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabout;
secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my
own foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal.
Both these things filled my head with new imaginations,
and gave me the vapors again to the highest degree; so
that I shook with cold, like one in an ague. And I went
home again, filled with the belief that some man or men
had been on shore there; or in short, that the island was
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security, I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolution men take when possessed
with fear! It deprives them of the use of those means
which reason offers for their relief. The first thing I pro-
posed to myself was to throw down my enclosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the
enemy might not find them and then frequent the island
in prospect of the same or the like booty: then to the
simple thing of digging up my two cornfields, that they
might not find such a grain there and still be prompted
to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower and
tent, that they might not see any vestiges of habitation,
and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's cogitation,
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and
my head was full of vapors, as above. Thus fear of danger
is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself,
when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of
anxiety greater, by much, than the evil which we are
anxious about; and which was worse than all this, I had
not that relief in this trouble from the resignation I used
to practice, that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like
Saul, who complained not only that the Philistines were
upon him but that God had forsaken him; for I did not
now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to
God in my distress, and resting upon His providence, as
1 had done before, for my defense and deliverance; which
if I had done, I had, at least, been more cheerftu sup-
ported under this new surprise and perhaps carried
through it with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night, but in the morning I fell asleep, and having by the
amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my
spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and waked much
better composed than I had ever been before; and now I
began to think sedately; and upon the utmost debate with
myself, I concluded that this island, which was so exceed-
ing pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland
than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I
might imagine. That although there were no stated in-
habitants who lived on the spot, yet that there might
sometimes come boats off from the shore, who either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by
cross winds, might come to this place. That I had lived

here fifteen years now, and had not met with the least a l"

shadowffigure of any people yet; and that if at any
time they should be driven here, it was probable they
went way again as soon as ever they could, seeing they
had never thought fit to fix there upon any occasion to
this time.

That the most I could suggest any danger from was
from any such casual accidental landing of straggling
people from the main, who, as it was likely if they were
driven hither, were here against their wills; so they made
no stay here, but went off again with all possible speed,
seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should not
have the help of the tides and daylight back again; and
that therefore I had nothing'to do but to consider of
some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land
upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large as to bring a door through again, which door, as
I said, came out beyond where my fortification joined to
the rock; upon maturely considering this therefore, I
resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the same
manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just
where I had planted a double row of trees about twelve
years before, of which I made mention. Th'ese trees hav-
ing been planted so thick before, they wanted but a few
piles to be driven between them, that they should be
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be soon finished.

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every-
thing I could think of to make it strong; having in it seven
little holes, about as big as I might put my arm out at.
In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to above ten
foot thick, with continual bringing earth out of my cave,
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon
it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant the
muskets, of which I took notice that I got seven on shore
out of the ship; these, I say, I planted like my cannon,
and fitted them into frames that held them like a car-
riage, that so I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time. This wall I was many a weary month
a-finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was
done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes or
sticks, of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to
grow, as they could well stand; insomuch, that I believe
I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I
might have room to see an enemy, and they might have
no shelter from the young trees, if they attempted to ap-
proach my outer wall.
Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove, and in five
or six years' time 'I had a wood before my dwelling, grow-
ing so monstrous thick and" strong that it was indeed
perfectly impassable; and no men of what kind soever
would ever imagine that there was anything beyond it,
much less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed to
myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue, it was by
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was
below, and then broke in, and left room to place another
ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were taken
down, no man living could come down to me without
mischieving himself; and if they had come down, they
were still on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen at
length that they were not altogether without just reason;
though I fOresaw nothing at that time more than my mere
fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats; they were not only a present sup-
ply to me upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient
to me, without the expense of powder and shot, but also
without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and
I was loath to lose the advantage of them, and to have
them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think
of but two ways to preserve them; one was to find another
convenient place to dig a cave underground, and to drive
them into it every night; and the other was to enclose
two or three little bits of land, remote from one another
and as much concealed as I could, where I might keep
about half a dozen young goats in each place; so that if
any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be
able) to raise them again with little trouble and time.
And this, though it would require a great deal of time
and labor, I thought was the most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most re-
tired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one which
was as private indeed as my heart could wish for; it was
a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow
and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost my-
self once before, endeavoring to come back that way from
the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear piece
of land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods that
it was almost an enclosure by Nature, at least it did not
want near so much labor to make it so as the other pieces
of ground I had worked so hard at.

; I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round
that my flock or herd, call it which you please, who were
not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to he,
were well enough secured in it. So, without any farther
delay, I removed ten young she-goats and two he-goats

' to this piece; and when they were there, I continued to

perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as the other,

which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up
more time by a great deal.

Cannibals!
x

ALL this labor I was at the expense of purely from my
apprehensions on the account of the print of a man's foot
which I had seen; for as yet I never saw any human crea-
ture come near the island; and I had now lived two years
under these uneasinesses, which indeed made my life
much less comfortable than it was before; as may well be
imagined by any who know what it is to live in the con-
stant snare of the fear of man; and this I must observeCANNIBALS! ~ 181

with grief too, that the discomposure of my mind had too.
great impressions also upon the religious part of my
thoughts, for the dread and terror of falling into the
hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits
that I seldom found myself in a due temper for'applim-
tion to my Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness
and resignation of soul which I was wont to do; I rather
prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of
mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation every
night of being murdered and devoured before morning;
and I must testify from my experience that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love, and affection is much more the
proper frame for prayer than that of terror and discom-
posure; and that under the dread of mischief impending,
a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of the
duty of praying to God than he is for repentance on a
sickbed. For these discomposures affect the mind, as the
others do the body; and the discomposure of the mind
must necessarily be as great a disability as that of the
body, and much greater, praying to God being properly
an act of the mind, not of the body. _

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island searching
for another private place to make such another deposit;
when wandering more to the west point of the island
than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought
I saw a boat upon'the sea, at a great distance; I had found'
a perspective-glass or two, in one of the seamen's chests
which I saved out of our ship; but I had it not about me,
and this was so remote that I could not tell what to make
of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look any longer; whether it was a boat or not, I
do not know; but as I descended from the hill, I could
see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go
no more out without a perspective-glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island,
where indeed I had never been before, I was presently
convinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was
not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined; and
but that it was a special providence that I was cast upon
the side of the island where the savages never came, I
should easily have kDOWn that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes from the main, when they happened
to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side
of the island for harbor; likewise, as they often met and
fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any pris--
oners, would bring them over to this shore, where, accord-
ing to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the southwest point of the island, I was per-
fectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me
to express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human
bodies; and particularly, I observed a place where there
had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like
a cockpit, where it 'is supposed the savage wretches had
sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of
their fellow creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it
for a long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the
thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality,
and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature; which
though I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a
view of before; in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was just
at the point of fainting, when Nature discharged the dis-
order from my stomach; and having vomited with an un-
common violence, I was a little relieved but could not
bear to stay in the place a moment; so I get me up the
hill again, with all the' speed I cauld, and walked on to-
wards my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I
stood still a while as amazed; and then recovering myself,
I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and with
a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks that had cast
my first lot in a part of the world where I was distin-
guished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that
though I had esteemed my present condition very mis-
erable, had yet given me so many comforts in it that I had

still more to give thaa'rllgsingmeWEand this
above all, that I Ha even in this miserab e con on been
comforted with the knowledge of Himself and the hope
of His blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently
equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered or could
suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my
circumstances, than ever I was before; for I observed that
these wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not
expecting anything here; and having often, no doubt,
been up in the covered, woody part of it, without finding
anything to their purpose. I knew I had been here now
almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps
of human creature there before; and I might be here
eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I
did not discover myself to them, which I had no manner
of occasion to do, it being my only business to keep myself
entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better
. sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of and of the
wretched, inhuman custom of their devouring and eating
one another up that I continued pensive and sad, and
kept close within my own circle for almost two years after
this. When I say my own circle, I mean by it my three
plantations, viz., my castle, my country seat, which I
called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods; nor did
I look after this for any other use than as an enclosure
for my goats; for the aversion which Nature gave me to
these hellish wretches was such that I was fearful of see-
ing them as of seeing the Devil himself; nor did I so much
as go to look after my boat in all this time, but began
rather to think of making me another; for I could not
think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with
some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had hap-
pened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what would
have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in
no danger of being discovered by these people began to
wear off my uneasiness about them; and I began to live
just in the same composed manner as before; only with
this difference, that I used more caution and kept my eyes
more about me than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cau-
tious of firing my gun, lest any of them, being on the
island, should happen to hear of it; and it was therefore
a very good providence to me that I had furnished myself
with a tame breed of goats, that I needed not hunt any
more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I did
catch any of them after this, it was by traps and snares, as
I had done before; so that for two years after this, I be-
lieve I never fired my gun once off, though I never went
out without it; and which was more, as I had saved three
pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me,
or at least two of them, sticking them in my goatskin belt;
also I furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had
out of the ship, and made me a belt to put it on also; so
that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when
I went abroad, if you add to the former description of
myself the particular of two pistols and a great broad-
sword, hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scab-
bard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm, sedate way of living; all these things tended
to showing me more and more how far my condition was
from being miserable, compared to some others; nay, to
many other particulars of life which it might have pleased
God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how
little repining there would be among mankind at any
condition of life, if people would rather compare their
condition with those that are worse, in order to be thank-
ful, than be always comparing them with those which are
better, to assist their murmurings and complainings.

As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that the
frights I had been in about these savage wretches and the
concern I had been in for my own preservation had taken
off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences;
and I had dropped a good design, which I had once bent
my thoughts too much upon; and that was to try if I
could not make some of my barley into malt and then try
to brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical

thought, and I reproved myself often for the simplicity ~

of it; for I presently saw there would be the want of sev--
eral things necessary to the making my beer that it would
be impossible for me to supply; as first, casks to preserve
it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already,
I could never compass; no, though I spent not many days,
but weeks, nay, months, in attempting it but to no pur-
pose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it
boil; and yet all these things notwithstanding, I verily
believe, had not these things intervened, I mean the
frights and terrors I was in about the savages, I had un-
dertaken it and perhaps brought it to pass too, for I
seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it,
when I once had it in my head enough to begin it.

But my invention now ran quite another way; for night
and day I could think of nothing but how I might destroy
some of these monsters in their cruel, bloody entertain-
ment and, if possible, save the victim they should bring
hither to destroy. It would take up a larger volume than
this whole work is intended to be, to set down all the con-
trivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my
thought, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither
any more; but all was abortive, nothing could be possible
to take effect, unless I wasto be there to do it myself;
and what could one man do among them, when perhaps
there might be twenty or thirty of them together, with
their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they
could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire and put in five or six pound
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire, would
consequently take fire and blow up all that was near it;
but as in the first place I should be very loath to waste so
much powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure of its
going off at any certain time, when it might surprise them;
and at best, that it would do little more than just blow
the fire about their ears and fright them, but not sufficient
to make them forsake the place; so I laid it aside, and
then proposed that I would place myself in ambush, in
some convenient place, with my three guns all double-loaded; and in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let
fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound per-
haps two or three at every shoot; and then falling in upon
them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no
doubt but that if there was twenty I- should kill them alL
This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I
was so full of it that I often dreamed of it; and sometimes
that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my imagination that I employed
myself several days to find out proper places to put my-
self in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went
frequently to the place itself, which was now grown more
familiar to me; and especially while my mind was thus
filled with thoughts of revenge and of a bloody putting
twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the
horror I had at the place and at the signals of the bar-

barotm wretches devouring one another abated my
malice.

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming, and might then, even before they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen
into thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely; and where I might
sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take my full
aim at their heads, when they were so close together as
that it would be next to impossible that I should miss my
shoot or that I could fail wounding three or four of them
at the first shoot.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and !
accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary
fowling piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace of\
slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about the size
of pistol bullets; and the fowling piece I loaded with
near a handful of swan shot, of the largest size; I also
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each, and in
this posture, well provided with ammunition for a second
and third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in
my imagination put it in practice, I continually made my
tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was
from my castle, as I called it, about three miles, or more,
to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming
near the island, or standing over towards it; but I began
to tire of this hard duty, after I had for two or three
months constantly kept my watch; but came always back
without any discovery, there having not, in all that time,
been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore,
but not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses
could reach every way.

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and
my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable form
for so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or
thirty naked savages for an offense which I had not at all
entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any farther
than my passions were at first fired by the horror I con-
ceived at the unnatural custom of that people of the
country, who it seems had been suEered by Providence, in
His wise disposition of the world, to have no other guide
than that of their own abominable and vitiated passions;
and consequently were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act such horrid things and receive such
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature entirely aban-
doned of Heaven and acted by some hellish degeneracy
could have run them into. But now, when as I have said,
I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had
made so long, and so far every morning in vain, so my
opinion of the action itself began to alter, and I began
with cooler and calmer thoughts to consider what it was
I was going to engage in. What authority or call I had
to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men '
as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for so many
ages to suffer unpunished to go on and to be, as it were,
the executioners of His judgments one upon another?
How far these people were offenders against me, and
what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood,
which they shed promiscuously one upon another? I de-
bated this very often with myself thus: "How do I know
what God Himself judges in this particular case? It is
certain these people either do not commit this as a crime;
it is not against their own consciences' reproving or their
light reproaching them. They do not know it to be an
offense, and then commit it in defiance of Divine justice,
as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think
it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war than we
do to kill an ox; nor to eat human flesh, than we do to
eat mutton."

When I had considered this a little, it followed neces-
sarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these
people were not murderers in the sense that I had before
condemned them in my thoughts; any more than those
Christians were murderers, who often put to death the
prisoners taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many
occasions, put whole troops of men to the sword, without
giving quarter, though they threw down their arms and
submitted.

In the next place it occurred to me that albeit the usage
they thus gave one another was thus brutish and in-
human, yet it was really nothing to me. These people had
done me no injury. That if they attempted me, or I saw
it necessary for myqimmediate preservation to fall upon
them, something might be said of it; but that I was yet
out of their power and they had really no knowledge of
me, and consequently no design upon me, and therefore -
it could not be just for me to fall upon them. That this
would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their
barbarities practiced in America, and where they de-
stroyed millions of these people, who, however they were
idolaters and barbarians and had several bloody and
barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrificing human
bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very
innocent people; and that the rooting them out of the
country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and
detestation by even the Spaniards themselves, at this
time, and by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a
mere butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty,
unjustifiable either to God or man; and such as for which
the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful
and terrible to all people of humanity or of Christian
compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly
eminent for the product of a race of men who were with-
out principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of
pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of
generous temper in the mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause and to a
kind of a full stop; and I began by little and little to be
off of my design and to conclude I had taken wrong meas-
ures in my resolutions to attack the savages; that it was
not my business to meddle with them unless they first
attacked me; and this it was my business if possible to
prevent; but that if I were discovered and attacked, then
I knew my duty.

0n the other hand, I argued with myself that this really
was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin
and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one
that not only should be on shore at that time, but that
should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of them
escaped to tell their country people what had happened,
they would come over again by thousands to revenge the
death of their fellows, and I should only bring upon my-
self a certain destruction, which at present I had no
manner of occasion for.

Upon the whole I concluded that neither in principle
or in policy I ought one way or other to concern myself'
in this affair. That my busines was by all possible means
to conceal myself from them and not to leave the least
signal to them to guess by that there were any living
creatures upon the island; I mean of human shape.
Md in with this prudential, and I was con-
vinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly out of my
duty, when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to
me. As to the crimes they were guilty of towards one
another, I had nothing to do with them; they were na-
tional, and I ought to leave them to the justice of God!
whojsthe Governor of nations and knows thbehggq
tional punishments to make a just retribution for national
offenses; _and to bring public judgments upon thosewhg
offend infia public manner, by such ways as best pleases
Him.

This appeared so clear to me now that nothing was a
greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suf-
fered to do a thing which I now saw so much reason to
believe would have been no less a sin than that of willful
murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble
thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me
from blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the
protection of His Providence, that I might not fall into
the hands of the barbarians; or that I might not lay my
hands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from

Heaven to do it, in defense of my own life. ~
In this disposition I continued for "21%
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion or a

upon these wretches, that in all that time I never once
went up the hill to see whether there were any of them
in sight, or to know whether any of them had been on
shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to renew
any of my contn'vances against them, or be provoked by
any advantage which might present itself to fall upon
them; only this I did: I went and removed my boat, which
I had on the other side the island, and carried it down to
the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a little
cove which I found under some high rocks, and where I
knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst not, at
least would not, come with their boats upon any account
whatsoever.

With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
going thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had made for
her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed which could
not be called either anchor or grappling; however, it was
the best I could make of its kind. All these I removed, that
there might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or
any appearance of any boat or of any human habitation
upon the island,

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than upon my
constant employment, viz., to milk my she-goats and
manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite
on the other part of the island, was quite out of danger;
for certain it is, that these savage people who sometimes
haunted this island never came with any thoughts of
finding anything here; and consequently never wandered
off from the coast; and I doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore, after my apprehensions of
them had made me cautious, as well as before; and in-
deed, I looked back with some horror upon the thoughts
of what my condition would have been, if I had chopped 1
upon them and been discovered before that, when naked

1 Come quickly.
and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaden often
only with small shot, I walked everywhere, peeping and
peeping about the island to see what I could get; what a
surprise should I have been in, if when I discovered the
print of a man's foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or
twenty savages and found them pursuing me, and by the
swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping
them!

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul
within me, and distressed my mind so much that I could
not soon recover it, to think what I should have done,
and how I'not only should not have been able to resist '
them but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done, much less what
now, after so much consideration and preparation, I
might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of
these things, I should be very melancholy, and sometimes
it would last .a great while; but I resolved it at last all into
thankfulness to that Providence which had delivered me
from so many unseen dangers and had kept me from
those mischiefs which I could no way have been the
agent in delivering myself from, because I had not the
least notion of any such thing depending, or the least
supposition of it being possible.

This renewed a contemplation which often had come
to my thoughts in former time, when first I began to see
the merciful dispositions of Heaven in the dangers we
run through in this life. How. wonderfully we are de- _
livered, when we know nothing of it. How, when we are
in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt or hesitation,
whether to go this way, or that way, a secret hint shall
direct us this way, when we intended to go that way;
nay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps busi-
ness has called to go the other way, yet a strange im-
pres'sion upon the mind, from we know not what strings
and by we know not what power, shall overrule us to go
this way; and it shall afterwards appear that had we
gone that way which we should have gone, and even to
our imagination ought to have gone, we should have been
mined and lost. Upon these, and many like reflections, I
afterwards made it a certain rule with me that whenever
I found those secret hints, or pressings. of my mind, to
doing or not doing anything that presented, or to going
this way or that way, I never failed to obey the secret
dictate; though I knew no other reason for it than that
such a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I
could give many examples of the success of this conduct
in the course of my life; but more especially in the latter
part of my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many
occasions which it is very likely I might have taken notice
of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I saw with
now. But 'tis never too late to be wise; and I cannot but
advise all considering men, whose lives are attended with
such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though not
so extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations of
Providence, let them come from what invisible intelli-
gence they will, that I shall not discuss and perhaps can-
not account for; but certainly they are a proof of the con-
verse of spirits and the secret communication between
those embodied and those unembodied; and such a proof
as can never be withstood. Of which I shall have occa-
sion to give some very remarkable instances in the re-
mainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.

The Care of My Safety

I BELIEVE the reader of this will not think strange if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived
in and the concern that was now upon me, put an end to
allinve ' aid to all the ' ances that laidTHE CARE OF MY SAFETY 195

WWII"
the care 0 m s 6 more now upon my han than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail or chop a stick of
wood now for fear the noise I should make should be
heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason;
and above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any
fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in
the day, should betray me; and for this reason I removed
that part of my business which required fire, such as
burning of pots and pipes, etc., into my new apartment in
the woods, where after I had been some time, I found,
to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave in the
earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say,
no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so
hardy as to venture in, nor indeed, would any man else
but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe
retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not
see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to
Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches of
trees to make charcoal; and before I go on, I must ob-
serve the reason of my making this charcoal, which was
thus: .

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation,
as I said before; and yet I could not live there without
baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc.; so I contrived
to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England,
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal; and then put-
ting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home and
perform the other services which fire was wanting for at
home, without danger of smoke.

But this is by the bye. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch
of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of
hollow place; I was curious to look into it, and getting
with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty
large; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in
it, and perhaps another with me; but I must confess to
you I made more haste out than I did in, when looking
farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether
devil or man I knew not, which tvvinkled like two stars,
the dim light from the cave's mouth shining directly in
and making the reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself
that he that was afraid to see the Devil was not fit to live
twenty years in an island all alone; and that I durst to
believe there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself; upon this, plucking up my courage,
I took up a great firebrand, and in I rushed again with
the stick flaming in my hand; I had not gone three steps
in but I was almost as much frighted as I was before; for
I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain,
and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of words half
expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back
and was indeed stuck with such a surprise that it put
me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head,
I will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted
it off. But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could,
and encouraging myself a little with considering that the
power and presence of God was everywhere and was able
to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my
head, I saw lying on the ground a most monstrous, fright-
ful old he--goat, just making his will, as we say, and gasp-
ing for life and dying indeed of mere old age.

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and
he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself;
and I thought with myself, he might even lie there; for
if he had frighted me so, he would certainly fright any of
the savages, if any of them should be so hardy as to come
in there while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very small,
that is to say, it might be about twelve foot over, but in
no manner of shape, either round or square, no hands
having ever been employed in making it but those of
mere Nature. I observed also that there was a place at
the farther side of it that went in farther but was so low
that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to
go into it, and whither I went I knew not; so having no
candle, I gave it over for some time but resolved to come
again the next day, provided with candles and a tinder-
box, which I had made of the lock of one of the muskets,
with some wild-fire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making, for I made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and going into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was
a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how
far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I was got
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I be<<
lieve near twenty foot; but never was such a glorious
sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to _look
round the sides and roof of this vault, or cave; the walls
reflected one hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles; what it was in the rock, whether diamonds
or any other precious stones or gold, which I rather sup-
posed it to be, I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or
grotto of its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly{
dark; the floor was dry and level and had a sort of small
loose gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous or
venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only dificulty in
it was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place of
security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that
was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at the
discovery and resolved, without any delay, to bring some
of those things which I was most anxious about to this
place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my maga-
zine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz., twolfowling
pieces, for I had three in all; and three muskets, for of
them I had eight in all; so I kept at my castle only five,
which stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my
outmost fence; and were ready also to take out upon any
expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took
occasion to open the barrel of powder which I took up
out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I found that
the water had penetrated about three or four inches into
the powder on eveiy side, which, caking and growing
hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell; so
that I had near sixty pound of very good powder in the
center of the cask, and this was an agreeable discovery to
me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never keep-
ing above two or three pound of powder with me in my
castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also carried
thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded myself,
while I was here, if five hundred savages were to hunt
me, they could never find me out; or, if they did, they
would not venture to attack me here.

The old goat who I found expiring died in the mouth
of the cave the next day after I made this discovery; and
I found it much easier to dig a great hole there and throw
him in and cover him with earth than to drag him out; so
I interred him there, to prevent the offense to my nose. , 3
I was now in my Wesidence in this L 1

island and was so naturalize to the place and to the
manner of living that could I have but enjoyed the cer-
tainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, I could have been content to have capitulated for
spending the rest of my time there, even to the last mo-
ment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat
in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions
and amusements, which made the time pass more pleas-
antly with me a great deal than it did before; as, first, I
had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; and he
did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain,
that it was very pleasant to me; and he lived with me no
less than six and twenty years. How long he might live
afterwards I know not; though I know they have a notion
in the Brazils that they live a hundred years; perhaps
poor Poll may be alive there still, calling after poor Robin
Cmsoe to this day. I wish no Englishman the ill luck to
come there and hear him; but if he did, he would cer-
tainly believe it was the Devil. My dog was a very pleas-
ant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen
years of my time, and then died of mere old age; as for,
my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that de-
gree, that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first
to keep them from dev0uring me and all I had; but at
length, when the two old ones I brought with me were
gone, and after some time continually driving them from
me and letting them have no provision with me, they all
ran wild into the woods, except two or three favorites,
which I kept tame and whose young, when they had any,
I always drowned; and these were part of my family.
Besides these, I always kept two or three household kids
about me, who I taught to feed out of my hand; and I
had two more parrots, which talked pretty well and
would all call "Robin Crusoe"; but none like my first; nor
indeed did I take the pains with any of them that I had
done with him. I had also several tame seafowls, whose
names I know not, who I caught upon the shore, and cut
their wings; and the little stakes which I had planted
before my castle wall being now grown up to a good thick
grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees and
bred there, which was very agreeable to me; so that, as
I said above, I began to be very well contented with the
life I led, if it might but have been secured from the
dread of the savages.

But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss
for all people who shall meet with my story to make this
just observation from it, viz., how frequently in the course
of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun,
and which, when we are fallen into it, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our de-
liverance, by which alone we can be raised again from
the aflliction we are fallen into. I could give many ex-
amples of this in the course of my unaccountable life;
but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than
in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence
in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this being the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it, was the particular time
of my harvest and required my being pretty much abroad
in the fields, when, going out pretty early in the morn-
ing, even before it was thorough daylight, I was sur-
prised with seeing a light of some fire upon the shore, at
a distance from me of about two mile, towards the end
,of the island, where I had observed some savages had
been, as before; but not on the other side; but to my great
affliction, it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might
be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in ram-
bling over the island, should find my corn standing or
cut, or any of my works and improvements, they would
immediately conclude that there were people in the place
and would then never give over till they had found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to my castle,
pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things with-
out look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defense; I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them; that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp, not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians; and in this posture I continued
about two hours; but began to be mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.

After sitting a while longer and musing what I should
do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance
any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and
then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up again and
mounted to the top of the hill; and pulling out my per-
spective-glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid me
down flat on my belly on the ground and began to look
for the place; I presently found there was no less than
nine naked savages sitting round a small fire they had
made, not to warm them, for they had no need of that,
the weather being extreme hot; but, as I supposed, to
dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh, which
they had brought with them, whether alive or dead I
could not know. '

They had two canoes with them, which they had haled
up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they
seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go
away again; it is not easy to imagine what confusion this
sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my side
the island, and so near me too; but when I observed their
coming must be always with the current of the ebb, I
began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the time
of the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before.
And having made this observation, I went abroad about
my harvest work with the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row
(or paddle, as we call it) all away. I should have ob-
served that, for an hour and more before they went off,
they went to dancing, and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glasses. I could not perceive,
by my nicest observation, but that they were stark naked
and had not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, that I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders and two pistols at my girdle and
my great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and with
all the speed I was able to make, I went away to the hill '
where I had discovered the first appearance of all; and
as soon as I gat thither, which was not less than two
hours, for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms
as I was, I perceived there had been three canoes more
of savages on that place; and looking out farther, I saw
they were all at sea together, making over for the main.

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when going
down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror which
the dismal work they had been about had left behind it,
viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human
bodies, eaten and devoured by those wretches, with mer-K
riment and sport. I was so filled with indignation at the
sight that I began now to premeditate the destruction of
the next that I saw there, let them be who or how maily
soever.

It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus
made to this island are not very frequent; for it was above
fifteen months before any more of them came on shore
there again; that is to say, I neither saw them, or any
footsteps, or signals of them, in all that time; for as to the
rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at
least not so far; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably,
by reason of the constant apprehensions I was in of their
coming upon me by surprise; from whence I observe that
the expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering,
especially if there is no room to shake off that expecta-
tion, or those apprehensions. \_

During all this time, I was in the murdering humor;
and took up most of my hours, which should have been I"
better employed, in conniving how to circumvent and '
fall upon them the very next time I should see them; l
especially if they should be divided, as they were the last
time, into two parties; nor did I consider at all that if I
killed one party, suppose ten- or a dozen, I was still the
next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so an-
other, even ad infinitum, till I sh0uld be at length no less
a murderer than they were in being man-eaters; and per-
haps much more so.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of
mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall into
the hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any
time venture abroad, it was not without looking round
me with the greatest care and caution imaginable; and
now I found to my great comfort how happy it was that
I provided for a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst
not upon any account fire my gun, especially near that
side of the island where they usually came, lest I should
alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I
was sure to have them come back again, with perhaps
two or three hundred canoes with them, in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect.

However, I wore out _a year and three months more
before I ever saw any more of these savages, and then
I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true they
might have been there once or twice; but either they
made no stay, or at least I did not hear them; but in the
month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my
four and twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter
with them, of which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great; I slept unquiet,
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out
- of my sleep in the night. In the day great troubles over-
whelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of
killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify
the doing of it; but to waive all this for a while; it was in
the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well
as my poor wooden calendar would reckon; for I marked
all upon the post still; I say, it was the sixteenth of May
that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with a
great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night
it was after it; I know not what was the particular occa-
sion of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with very serious thoughts about my present condition, ISHIP IN DISTRESS 205
was surprised with a noise of a gun, as I thought, fired A

at sea. \ '

Ship in Distress

THIS was to be sure a surprise of a quite different nature
from any I had met with before; for the notions this put
into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started 11
in the greatest haste imaginable, and in a trice clappeg
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it
after me, and mounting it the second time, got to the top
of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen
for a second gun, which accordingly, in about half a min-
ute I heard; and by the sound, knew that it was from
that part of the sea where I was driven down the current
in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some ship
in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals
of distress and to obtain help. I had this presence of mind
at that minute as to think that though I could not help
them, it may be they might help me; so I brought to--
gether all the dry wood I could get at hand, and making
a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill; the
wood was dry and blazed freely; and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out; that I was certain,
if there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see
it, and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire
blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several
others, all from the same quarter; I plied my fire all night
long, till day broke; and when it was broad day, and the
air cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at
sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull I could
not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the distance was
so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at
least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded that
it was a ship at an anchor, and being eager, you may be
sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and run
toward the south side of the island, to the rocks where I
had formerly been carried away with the current, and
getting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly
clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck
of a ship cast away in the night upon those concealed
rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and
which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream,
and made a kind of counter-stream or eddy, were the
occasion of my recovering from the most desperate, hope-
less condition that ever I had been in, in all my life.

Thus what is one man's safety is another man's destruc-
tion; for it seems these men, whoever they were, being
out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under
water, had been driven upon them in the night, the wind
blowing hard at east and east-northeast. Had they seen
the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not,
they must, as I thought, have endeavored to have saved
themselves on shore by the help of their boat; but their
firing of guns for help, especially when they saw, as I
imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts. First,
I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might have
put themselves into their boat and having endeavored to
make the shore; but that the sea going very high, they
might have been cast away; other times I imagined that
they might have lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly by the breaking of the
sea upon their ship, which many times obliges men to
stave, or take in pieces their boat; and sometimes to
throw it overboard with their own hands. Other times I
imagined they had some other ship, or ships in company,
who, upon the signals of distress they had made, had
taken them up, and carried them off. Other whiles I
fancied they were all gone OE to sea in their boat, and
being hurried away by the current that I had been for-
merly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where
there was nothing but misery and perishing; and that per-
haps they might by this time think of starving and of
being in a condition to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look on upon
the misery of the poor men and pity them; which had still
this good effect on my side, that it gave me more and
more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily
and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condi-
tion; and that of two ships' companies who were now cast
away upon this part of the world, not one life shOuld be
spared but mine. I learned here again to observe that it
is very rare that the providence of God casts us into any
condition of life so low, or any misery so great, but we
may see something or other to be thankful for; and may
see others in worse circumstances than our own.

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I
could not so much as see room to suppose any of them
were saved; nothing could make it rational; so much as
to wish or expect that they did not all perish there; except
the possibility only of their being taken up by another
ship in company, and this was but mere possibility in-
deed; for I saw not the least signal or appearance of any
such thing.

I cannot explain by any possible energy of words what
a strange longing or hankering of desires I felt in my soul
upon this sight, breaking out sometimes thus: "0 that
there had been but one or two, nay, or but one soul, saved
out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but
have had one companion, one fellow-creature to have
spoken to me and to have conversed with!" In all the time
of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a
desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep
a regret at the want of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the afiections,
which when they are set a-going by some object in view,
or be it some object, though not in view, yet rendered
present to the mind by the power of imagination, that
motion carries out the soul by its impetuosity to such
violent eager. embracings of the object that the absence
of it is insupportable.

Such were these earnest wishings that but one man had
been saved! "0 that it had been but one!" I believe I re-
peated the words, "0 that it had been one!" a thousand
times; and the desires were so moved by it that when I
Spoke the words my hands would clinch together and my
fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had had any
soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involun-
tarily; and my teeth in my head would strike together
and set against one another so strong that for some time
I could not part them again. '

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them; all I can say to them is to describe
the fact, which was even surprising to me when I found
it, though I knew not from what it should proceed; it was
doubtless the effect of ardent wishes and of strong ideas
formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the con-
versation of one of my fellow Christians would have been
to me.

But it was not to be; either their fate or mine, or both,
forbid it; for till the last year of my being on this island,
I never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or
no; and had only the affliction some days after to see the
corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the end of the
island which was next the shipwreck. He had on no
clothes but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed
linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to di-
rect me so much as to guess what nation he was of. He
had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight and a
tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten times more value
than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find something on board that might be useful to me; but
that did not altogether press me so much as the possibility
that there might be yet some living creature on board,
whose life I might not only save but might, by saving
that life, comfort my own to the last degree; and this
thought clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet
night or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board
this wreck; and committing the rest to God's providence,
I thought the impression was so strong upon my mind
that it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to
myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a
quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a compass
to steer by, a bottle of rum; for I had still a great deal of
that left; a basket full of raisins. And thus loading myself
with everything necessary, I went down to my boat, got
the water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for more; my
second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the umbrella
to set up over my headfor shade, another large pot full of
fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or
barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's
milk and a cheese; all which, with great labor and sweat,
I brought to my boat; and praying to God to direct my
voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe
along the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the
island on that side, viz., northeast. And now I was to
launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to
venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran con-
stantly on both sides of the island at a distance and which
were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of the
hazard I had been in before, and my heart began to fail
me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of those
currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and
perhaps out of my reach or sight of the island again; and
that then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of
wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to
give over my enterprise, and having haled my boat into
a little creek on the shore, I stepped out and sat me down
upon a little rising bit of ground, very pensive and anx-
ious, between fear and desire, about my voyage; when,
as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned
and the flood come on, upon which my going was for so
many hours impracticable; upon this, presently it oc.
curred to me that I should go up to the highest piece of
ground I could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets

. of the tide or currents lay, when the flood came in, that
I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I
might not expect to be driven another way home, with
the same rapidness of the currents. This thought was no
sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill,
which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways and from
whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the
tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return;
here I found that as the current of the ebb set out close
by the south point of the island, so the current of the
flood set in close by the shore of the north side, and that
I had nothing to do but to keep to the north of the island
in my return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing
myself for the night in the canoe, under the great watch
coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made first a little out
to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the
current, which set eastward and which carried me at a
great rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the southern
side current had done before, and so as to take from me
all government of the boat; but having a strong steerage
with my paddle, I went at a great rate, directly for the
wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which by its
building was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two
rocks; all the stern and quarter of her was beaten to
pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in
the rocks, had run on with great violence, her mainmast
and foremast were brought by the board; that is to say,
broken short ofi; but her bowsprit was sound, and the
head and bow appeared firm. When I came close to her, ,4
a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped '
and cried; and as soon as I called him, jumped into the 5
sea to come to me, and I took him into the boat; but found 1
him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he eat it like a ravenous wolf that had
been starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the
poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would
have let him, he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board; but the first sight I met with
was two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of
the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I con- '
eluded, as is indeed probable, that when the ship struck,
it being in a storm, the sea broke so high and so con-
tinually over her that the men were not able to bear it
and )were strangled with the constant rushing in of the
water, as much as if they had been under water. Besides

the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life;
nor any goods that I could see but what were spoiled by
the water. There were some casks of liquor, whether wine
or brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the hold; and
which, the water being ebbed out, I could see; but they
were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests, which
I believed belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two
of them into the boat, without examining what was in
them.

Had the stern of the ship been fixed and the forepart
broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a good
voyage; for by what I found in these two chests, I had
room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on
board; and if I may guess by the course she steered, she
must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio
de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the
Brazils, to the Havana, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so per-
haps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her;
but of no use at that time to anybody; and what became
of the rest of her people, I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with
much difficulty; there were several muskets in a cabin
and a great powder horn, with about four pounds of
powder in it; as for the muskets, I had no occasion for
them; so I left them, but took the powder horn. I took a
fire shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also
two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate,
and a gridiron; and with this cargo and the dog I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the
same evening, about an hour within night, I reached the
island again, weary and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I
resolved to harbor what I had gotten in my new cave, not
to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I'
got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the par-
ticulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a kind of mm,
but not such as we had at the Brazils; and in a word, not
at all good; but when I came to open the chests, I found
several things of great use to me. For example, I found in
one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bottles
held about three pints each and were tipped with silver.
I found two pots of very good succades, or sweetmeats,
so fastened also on top that the salt water had not hurt
them; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very
welcome to me; and about a dozen and a half of linen
white handkerchiefs and colored neckcloths; the former
were also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to
wipe my face in a hot day; besides this, when I came to
the till in the chest, I found there three great bags of
pieces of eight, which held out about eleven hundred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper,
six doubloons of gold and some small bars or wedges of
gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but of
little value; but by the circumstances it must have be-
longed to the gunner's mate; though there was no powder
in it but about two pound of fine glazed powder, in three
small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling
pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by
this voyage that was of any use to me; for as to the money,
I had no manner of occasion for it. 'Twas to me as the
dirt under my feet; and I would have given it all for three
or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were
things I greatly wanted but had not had on my feet now
for many years. I had indeed gotten two pair of shoes
now, which I took off of the feet of the two drowned
men, who I saw in the wreck; and I found two pair more
in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me;
but they Were not like our English shoes, either for ease
or service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes.
I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight
in royals but no gold; I suppose this belonged to a poorer
man than the other, which seemed to belong to some
officer.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave
and laid it up, as I had done that before which I brought
from our own ship; but it was great pity, as I said, that
the other part of this ship had not come to my share; for
I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe several times
over with money, which, if I had ever escaped to Eng-
land, would have lain here safe enough till I might have
come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore and se-
cured them, I went back to my boat and rowed or pad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbor, where I laid
her up, and made the best of my way to my old habita-
tion, where I found everything safe and quiet; so I began
to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care
of my family affairs; and, for a while, I lived easy enough,
only that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked out
oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and if at any
time I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east
part of the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the
savages never came, and where I could go without so
many precautions and such a load of arms and ammuni-
tion as I always carried with me if I went the other way.

Time to Get Me a Servant

 

I LIVED in this condition near two yfar/smgge; but my

unlucky head, that was alwayslte--l'et me know--it was
born to make my body miserable, was all this two yearsTIME TO GET ME A SERVANT 215

filled with projects and designs, how, if it were possible,
I might get away from this island; for sometimes I was
for making another voyage to the wreck, though my rea-
son told me that there was nothing left there worth the
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way,
sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had had the
boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured
to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither.

I have been in all my circumstances a memento to
those who are touched with the general plague of man-
kind, whence, for aught I know, one half of their miseries
flow; I mean, that of not being satisfied with the station
wherein God and Nature had placed them; for, not to
look back upon my primitive condition and the excellent
advice of my father, the opposition to which was, as I
may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of
the same kind had been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for bad that Providence, which
so happily had seated me at the Brazils as-a planter,
blessed me with confined desires, and I could have been
contented to have gone on gradually, I might have been,
by this time, I mean in the time of my being in this island,
one of the most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay,
I am persuaded that by the improvements I had made
in that little time I lived there and the increase I should
probably have made if I had stayed, I might have been
worth an hundred thousand moidores; and what business
had I to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation,
improving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea,
to fetch Negroes, when patience and time would have so
increased our stock at home that we could have bought
them at our own door from those whose business it was
to fetch them? And though it had cost us something more,
yet the difference of that price was by no means worth
saving at so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so re-
flection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise
of more years or of the dear bought experience of time;
and so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the mis-
take taken root in my temper that I could not satisfy
myself in my station but was continually poring upon the
means and possibility of my escape from this place; and
that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring
on the remaining part of my story, it may not be im-
proper to give some account of my first conceptions on
the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape, and how,
and upon what foundation, I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after
my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and se-
cured under water, as usual, and my condition restored
to what it was before. I had more wealth, indeed, than
I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no
more use for it than the Indians of Pem had before the
Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the four and twentieth year of my first setting foot in this
island of solitariness; I was lying in my bed, or hammock,
awake, very well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no
uneasiness of body; no, nor any uneasiness of mind, more
than ordinary; but could by no means close my eyes; that
is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise
than as follows:

It is as impossible as needless to set down the in-
numerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time. I run over the whole history of my life in
miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my com-
ing to this island; and also of the part of my life since I
came to this island. In my reflections upon the state of
my case since I came on shore on this island, I was com-
paring the happy posture of my affairs in the first years of
my habitation here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear,
and care, which I had lived ever since I had seen the
print of.a foot in the sand; not that I did not believe the
savages had frequented the island even all the while and
might have been several hundreds of them at times on
shore there; but I had never known it and was incapable
of any apprehensions about it; my satisfaction was per-
fect, though my danger was the same; and I was as happy
in not knowing my danger as if I had never really been
exposed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many very
profitable reflections, and particularly this one: how in-
finitely good that Providence is which has provided in its
government of mankind such narrow bounds to his sight
and knowledge of things; and though he walks in the
midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of which,
if discovered to him, would distract his mind and sink
his spirits, he is kept serene and calm by having the
events of things hid from his eyes and knowing nothing
of the dangers which surround him.

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me,
I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had
been in for so many years in this very island; and how I
had walked about in the greatest security and with all
possible tranquillity even when perhaps nothing but a
brow of a bill, a great tree, or the casual approach of
night, had been between me and the worst kind of de-
struction, viz., that of falling into the hands of cannibals
and savages, who would have seized on me with the same
view as I did of a goat, or a turtle; and have thought it no
more a crime to kill and devour me than I did of a pigeon
or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself if I should
say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver,
to whose singular protection I acknowledged, with great
humility, that all these unknown deliverances were due;
and without which I must inevitably/have fallen into their
merciless hands. '
When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
time taken up in considering the nature of these wretched
creatures, I mean the savages; and how it came to pass in
the world that the wise Governor of all things should give
up any of His creatures to such inhumanity; nay, to some-
thing so much below even brutality itself as to devour its
own kind; but as this ended in some (at that time fruit-
less) speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what part
of the world these wretches lived in; how far off the coast
was from whence they came; what they ventured over so
far from home for; what kind of boats they had; and why
I might not order myself and my business so that I might
be as able to go over thither as they were to come to me.
I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I
should do with myself when I came thither; what would
become of me, if I fell into the hands of the savages; or
how I should escape from them, if they attempted me;
no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach
the coast and not be attempted by some or other of them,
without any possibility of delivering myself; and if I
should not fall into their hands, what I should do for pro-
vision, or whither I should bend my course; none of these
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way; but my mind
was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in
my boat to the mainland. I looked back upon my present
condition as the most miserable that could possibly be;
that I was not able to throw myself into anything but
death that could be called worse; that if I reached the
shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or
I might coast along, as I did on the shore of Africa, till I
came to some inhabited country, and where I might find
some relief; and after all, perhaps I might fall in with
some Christian ship that might take me in; and if the
worse came to the worst, I could but die, which would
put an end to all these miseries at once. Pray note, all
this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient tem-
per, made, as it were, desperate by the long continuance
of my troubles and the disappointments I had met in the
wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so
near the obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz.,
somebody to speak to and to learn some knowledge from
of the place where I was and of the probable means of
my deliverance; I say, I was agitated wholly by these
thoughts. All my calm of mind in my resignation to
Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of
Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were,
no power to turn my droughts to anything but to the
project of a voyage to the main, which came upon me
with such force and such an impetuosity of desire that
it was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or
more, with such violence that it set my very blood into a
ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had been in a
fever merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind
about it, Nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted
with the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep.
One would have thought I should have dreamed of it;
but I did not, nor of anything relating to it; but I dreamed
that as I was going out in the morning as usual from my
castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savt
ages coming to land, and that they brought with them
another savage, whom they were going to kill, in order
to eat him; when on a sudden, the savage that they were
going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life; and I
thought in my sleep that he came running into my little
thick grove, before my fortification, to hide himself; and
that I, seeing him alo'ne and not perceiving that the other
sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling

my"
upon him, encouraged him; that he kneeled down to me} '
seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which I showed}
my ladder, made him go up, and carried him into my
cave, and he became my servant; and that as soon as I
had gotten this man, I said to myself, "Now I may cer-
tainly venture to the mainland; for this fellow will serve
me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do and whither to
go for provisions; and whither not to go for fear of being
devoured; what places to venture into, and what to es-
cape." I waked with this thought and was under such
inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my
escape in my dream that the disappointments which I
felt upon coming to myself and finding it was no more
than a dream were equally extravagant the other way,
and threw me into a very great dejection of spirit.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape was, if
possible, to get a savage into my possession; and if pos-
sible, it should be one of their prisoners who they had
condemned to be eaten and should bring hither to kill;
but these thoughts still were attended with this difliculty,
that it was impossible to effect this without attacking a
whole caravan of them and killing them all; and this was
not only a very desperate attempt and might miscarry,
but on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawful-
ness of it to me; and my heart trembled at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliver-
ance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to
me against this, they being the same mentioned before;
but though I had other reasons to offer now, viz., that
those men were enemies to my life and would devour me
if they could; that it was self-preservation, in the highest
degree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and
was acting in my own defense as inuch as if they were
actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, though these
things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human
blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me, and
such as I could by no means reconcile myself to a great
while.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with my-
self and after great perplexities about it, for all these
arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head
a long time, the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at
length mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if possible, to
get one of those savages into my hands, cost what it
would. My next thing then was to contrive how to do it,
and this indeed was very difficult to resolve on. But as I

could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved .

to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such
measures as the opportunity should present, let be what
would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout, as often as possible, and indeed so often
till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and
half that I waited, and for a great part of that time went
out to the west end and to the southwest corner of the
island almost every day to see for canoes, but none ap-
peared. This was very discouraging, and began to trouble
me much; though I cannot say that it did in this case, as
it had done some time before that, viz., wear off the edge
of my desire to the thing. But the longer it seemed to be
delayed, the more eager I was for it; in a word, I was not
at first so careful to shun the sight of these savages and
avoid being seen by them as I was now eager to be upon
them.

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two
or three savages, if I had them, so as to make them en-
tirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct them
and to prevent their being able at any time to do me any

~ $51,;
hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with this
affair, but nothing still presented; all my fancies and
schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near me
for a great while.

About a year and half after I had entertained these
notions and, by long musing, had as it were resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them
in execution, I was surprised one morning early with see-
ing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my
side the island; and the people who belonged to them all
landed, and out of my sight. The number of them broke
all my measures, for seeing so many and knowing that
they always came four or six, or sometimes more in a boat,
I could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my
measures, to attack twenty or thirty men singlehanded;
so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted.
However, I put myself into all the same postures for an
attack that I had formerly provided and was just ready
for action if anything had presented; having waited a
good while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at
length being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of
my ladder and clambered up to the t0p of the hill by my
two stages as usual; standing so, however, that my head
did not appear above the hill, so that they could not per-
ceive me by any means; here I observed by the help of
my perspective-glass that they were no less than thirty in
number, that they had a fire kindled, that they had had
meat dressed. How they had cooked it, that I knew not,
or what it was; but they were all dancing in I know not
how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own way,
round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my
perspective two miserable wretches dragged from the
boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter, I perceived one of them
immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose, with a
club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and two
or three others were at work immediately, cutting him
open for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for him.
In that very moment, this poor wretch seeing himself \a
little at liberty, Nature inspired him with hopesof life,>>
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands directly towards me, I mean
towards that part of the coast where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge).
when I perceived him to run my way; and especially,
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter
in my grove; but I could not depend by any means upon
my dream for the rest of it, viz., that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and find him there. How-
ever, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover
when I found that there was not above three men that
followed him; and still more was I encouraged when I
found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running
and gained ground of them; so that if he could but hold
it for half an' hour, I saw easily be w0uld fairly get away
from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story, .
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw
plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch
would be taken there. But when the savage escaping '
came thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was 9,
then up, but plunging in, swam through in about thirty}
strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceed-J
ing. strength and swiftness; when the three persons camel
to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but

(v
the third could not, and that standing on the other side,
he looked at the other, but went no further; and soon
after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was
very well for him in the main.

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was
that fled from them. It came now very warmly upon my
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was my time
to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion, or assist'
ant; and that I was called plainly by Providence to save

,this poor creature's life; I immediately run down the lad-
ders with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
for they were both but at the foot of the ladders, as I
observed above; and getting up again, with the same
haste, to the top of the bill, I crossed toward the sea; and
having a very short cut, and all down hill, clapped my-
self in the way between the pursuers and the pursued;
hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was
at first perhaps as much frighted at me as at them; but I
beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and in the
meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked
him down with the stock of my piece; I was loath to fire,
because I would not have the rest hear; though at that
distance, it would not have been easily heard, and being
out of sight of the smoke too, they would not have easily
known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow
down, the other who pursued with him stopped, as if he
had been frighted; and I advanced apace towards him;
but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow
and arrow and was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then
necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed
him at the first shoot; the poor savage who fled, but had
stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen and
killed, as he thought, yet was so frighted with the fireand noise of my piece, that he stood stock still and neither
came forward or went backward, though he seeme
rather inclined to fly still than to come on; I hallooed
again to him, and made signs to come forward, which he \
easily understood and came a little way, then stopped
again and then a little further and stopped again, and I l
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had
been taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his
two enemies were; I beckoned him again to come to me
and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could
think of, and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down
every ten or twelve steps in token of acknowledgment for
my saving his life. I smiled at him and looked pleasantly
and beckoned to him to come still nearer; at length he
came close to me, and then he kneeled down again,
kissed the ground, and laid his head upon the ground,
and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his head;
this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave
forever; I took him up, and made much of him, and en-
couraged him all I could. But there was more work to do
yet, for I perceived the savage who I knocked down was
not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself; so I pointed to him, and showing him the
savage, that he was not 'dead; upon this he spoke some
words to me, and though I could not understand them,
yet I thought they were pleasant to hear, for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own
excepted, for about twenty-five years. But there was
no time for such reflections now; the savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon
the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be
afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my other piece
at the man as if I would shoot him; upon this my savage,
for so I call him now, made-a motion to me to lend him
my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I

TIME TO GET ME A SERVANT 22;
did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and,i
at one blow out off his head as cleverly, no executioner in"
Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought very strange for one who I had reason to believe
never saw a sword in his life before, except their own
wooden swords; however, it seems, as I learned after-
wards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy,
and the wood is so hard, that they will cut off heads even
with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too; when
he had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of
triumph and brought me the sword again, and with abun-
dance of gestures which I did not understand, laid it
down, with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know how
I had killed the other Indian so far 0E; so pointing to him,
he made signs to me to let him go to him; so I bade him
go, as well as I could; when he came to him, he stood
like one amazed, looking at him, turned him first on one
side, then on t' other, looked at the wound the bullet had
made, which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had
made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had fol-
lowed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead.
He took up his bow and arrows, and came back; so I
turned to go away and beckoned to him to follow me,
making signs to him that more might come after them.

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest if they
followed; and so I made signs again to him to do so; he
fell to work, and in an instant he had scraped a hole in
the sand with his hands big enough to bury the first in,
and then dragged him into it and covered him and did so
also by the other; I believe he had buried them both in a
quarter of an hour; then calling him away, I carried him,
not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on the far-MY MAN FRIDAY 227

ther part of the island; so I did not let my dream come to
pass in that part, viz., that he came into my grove for
shelter.

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in
great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs for him to go lie down and sleep, point-
ing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice-
straw and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature laid down and
went to sleep.

My Man Friday

 

HE WAS a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly wel \
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large; tall an
well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years 0
age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce an
surly aspect; but seemed to have something very manly
in his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness
of an European in his countenance too, especially when
he smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like
wool; his forehead very high and large; and a great vi-
vacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The color of
his skin was not quite black, but very tawny; and yet not
of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and
Virginians, and other natives of America are; but of a
bright kind of a dun olive color that had in it something
very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face
was round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the
Negroes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth
well set, and white as ivory. After he had slumbered,
rather than slept, about half an hour, he waked again, and
comes out of the cave to me; for I had been milking my
goats, which I had in the enclosure just by. When he
espied me, he came running to me, laying himself dOWn
again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an
humble, thankful disposition, making a many antic ges<
tures to show it. At last he lays his head flat upon the
ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his
head, as he had done before; and after this, made all the
signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission im-
aginable, to let me know how he would serve me as long
as he lived; I understood him in many things and let him
know I was very well pleased with him; in a little time I
began to speak to him and teach him to speak to me; and
first, I made him know his name should be,.PS'\riglgy, which
was the day I saved his life; I called him so for the mem-
cry of the time; I likewise taught him to say Master, and
then let him know that was to be my name; I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No and to know the meaning
of them; I gave him some milk in an earthen pot and let
him see me drink it before him and sop my bread in it;
and I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he
quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very
od for him.
_ I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it
was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him
know I would give him some clothes, at which he seemed
very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went by the
place where he had buried the two men, he pointed ex-
actly to the place and showed me the marks that he had
made to find them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up again and eat them; at this I ap-
peared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made
as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned
with my hand to him to come away, which he did imme-
diately, with great submission. I then led him up to the
top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and pulling
out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where
they had been, but no appearance of them or of their
canoes; so that it was plain they were gone and had left
their two comrades behind them, without any search after
them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I
takes my man Friday with me, givinghim the sword in
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
found he could use very dexterously, making him carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we
marched to the place where these creatures had been; for
I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them.
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my
veins and my heart sunk within me at the horror of the
spectacle. Indeed it was a dreadful sight, at least it was
so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The place
was covered with human bones, the ground dyed with '
their blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there, half
eaten, mangled and scorched; and in short, of all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making
there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and
feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of
them were eaten up and that he, pointing to himself, was
the fourth; that there had been a great battle between
them and their next king, whose subjects it seems he had
been one of; and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all which were carried to several places by
those that had taken them in the fight, in order to feast
upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon
those they brought hither. 4

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a heap
and make a great fire upon it and burn them all to ashes.
I found Friday had still a hankering stomach after some
of the flesh, and was still ammihaun his nature; but I
discovered so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of
it and at the least appearance of it that he durst not dis-
cover it; for I had by some means let him know that I
would kill him if he offered it.

When we had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday; and first of
all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of
the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which I found
in the wreck; and which with a little alteration fitted him
very well; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well
as my skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolerable
good tailor; and I gave him a cap, which I had made of a
hare-skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and
thus he was clothed for the present tolerably well; and
was mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in
these things at first; wearing the drawers was very awk-
ward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his
shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a little easing
them where he complained they hurt him and using him-
self to them, at length he took to them very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him,
I began to consider where I should lodge him; and that I
might do well for him and yet be perfectly easy myself,
I made a little tent for him in the vacant place between
my two fortifications, in the inside of the last and in the
outside of the first; and as there was a door or entrance
there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a
little within the entrance; and causing the door to open
on the inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my
ladders too; so that Friday could no way come at me in
the inside of my innermost wall without making so much
noise in getting over that it must needs waken me; for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent and leaning up to the side of
the hill, which was again laid across with smaller sticks
instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness
with the rice-straw, which was strong like reeds; and at
the hole or place which was left to go in or out by the lad-
der I had placed a kind of trapdoor, which, if it had been
attempted on the outside, would not have opened at all,
but would have fallen down and made a great noise; and
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man
had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday
was to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs, per-
fectly obliged and engaged; his very affections were tied
to me, like those of a child to a father; and I dare say he
would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave
me of this put it out of doubt and soon convinced me that
I needed to use no precautions as to my safety on his
account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His
providence, and in the government of the works of
His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His
creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has be-
stowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and ob-
ligation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs,
the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
capacities of doing good and receiving good that He has
given to us; and that when He pleases to offer to them
occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more
ready to apply them to the right uses for which they were
bestowed than we are. And this made me very melan-
choly sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions
presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even
though we have these powers enlightened by the great
lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowl-
edge of His Word, added to our understanding; and why
it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from
so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this
poor savage, would make a much better use of it than
we did.

From hence, I sometimes was led too far to invade the
sovereignty of Providence and, as it were, arraign the
justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things that should
hide that light from some and reveal it to others, and yet
expect a like duty from both. But I shut it up and checked
my thoughts with this conclusion; first, that we did not
know by what light and law these should be condemned;
but that as God was necessarily, and by the nature of His
being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be but that
if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from
Himself, it was on account of sinning against that light
which, as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and
by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to
be just, though the foundation was not discovered to us.
And second, that still, as we are all the clay in the hand
of the Potter, no vessel could say to Him, "Why hast Thou
formed me thus?"

But to return to my new companion: I was greatly de-
lighted'with him and made it my business to teach him
everything that was proper to make him useful,.haiidy, '
and helpful; but especially to make him speak and under-
stand me when I spake; and he was the aptest scholar
that ever was, and particularly was so merry, so con-
stantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but under-
stand me or make me understand him that it was very
pleasant to me to talk to him; and now my life began to
be so easy that I began to say to myself that could I but
have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place while I lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from
his horrid way of feeding and from the relish of a can-
nibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I
took him out with me one morning to the woods. I went,
indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock and
bring him home and dress it. But as I was going, I saw a
she-goat lying down in the shade and two young kids sit-
ting by her; I catched hold of Friday. "Hold," says I,
"stand still"; and made signs to him not to stir; immedi-
ately I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the
kids. The poor creature, who had at a distance, indeed,
seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know or
could imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised,
trembled and shook, and looked so amazed that I thought
he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I had
shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat to feel if he was not wounded, and, as I found pres-
ently, thought I was resolved to kill him; for he came and
kneeled down to me and, embracing my knees, said a
great many things I did not understand; but I could easily
see that the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm and, taking him up by the hand, laughed at
him and pointed to the kid which I had killed, beckoned
to him to run and fetch it, which he did; and while he
was wondering and looking to see how the creature was
killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by I saw a
great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree, within shot; so,
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called
him to me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a
parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, point-
ing to the parrot and to my gun and to the ground under
the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made him
understand that I would shoot and kill that bird; accord-
ingly I fired and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall, he stood like one frighted again, notwith-
standing all I had said to him; and I found he was the
more amazed because he did not see me put anything into
the gun; but thought that there must be some wonderful
fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill
man, beast, bird, or anything near or far off; and the
astonishment this created in him was such as could not
wear off for a long time; and I believe, if I would have
let him, he would have worshiped me and my gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for sev-
eral days after; but would speak to it and talk to it as if it
had answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which
he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not being
quite dead, was fluttered away a good way off from the
place where she fell; however, he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his igno-
rance about the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again and not let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present;
but nothing more offered at that time; so I brought home
the kid, and the same evening I took the skin OE and cut
it out as well as I could; and having a pot for that pur-
pose, I boiled, or stewed, some of the flesh, and made-
some very good broth; and after I had begun to eat some,ll
I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it and!
liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him
was to see me eat salt with it; he made a sign to me that
the salt was not good to eat, and putting a little into his
own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and
sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it;
on the other hand, I took some meat in my mouth without
salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt,
as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would not do; he
would never care for salt with his meat or in his broth; at
least, not a great while, and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a
piece of the kid; this I did by hanging it before the fire
in a string, as I had seen many people do in England,
setting two poles up, one on each side the fire, and one
cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross-stick, let-
ting the meat tum continually. This Friday admired very
much; but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so
many ways to tell me how well he liked it that I could
not but understand him; and at last he told me he would
never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to
hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I ob-
served before, and he soon understood how to do it as
well as I, especially after he had seen what the meaning
of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for after that
I let him see me make my bread and bake it too, and in a 1}
little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as I
well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider that having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to
do; so I marked out a larger piece of land and began the
fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday not
only worked very willingly and very hard but did it very
cheerfully; and I told him what it was for, that it was for
corn to make more bread, because he was now with me,
and that I might have enough for him and myself too. He
appeared very sensible of that part and let me know that
he thought I had much more labor upon me on his ac-
count than I had for myself; and that he would work the
harder for me, if I would tell himwhat to do.

Some Hopes That I Might Escape

THIS was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place; Friday began to talk pretty well and understand
the names of almost everything I had occasion to call for,
and of every place I had to send him to, and talk a great
deal to me; so that, in short, I began now to have some
use for my tongue again, which indeed I had very little
occasion for before; that is to say, about speech; besides
the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfac>>
tion in the fellow himself; his simple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every day, and I began
really to love the creature; and, on his side, I believe he
loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love
anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering incli-
nation to his own country again, and having learned him
English so well that he could answer me almost any ques-
tions, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle. At which he smiled, and said,
"Yes, yes, we always fight the better"; that is, he meant,
always get the better in fight; and so we began the follow-
ing discourse: "You always fight the better," said I, "how
came you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?"

FRIDAY: My nation beat much, for all that., _ . . . *"7;~';'""deg..~'-rq
SOME HOPES' THAT 1 MIGHT ESCAPE 2'37

MASTER: How beat? If your nation beat them; how-
come you to be taken? -

FRIDAY: They more many than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my
nation overheat them in the yonder place, where me no
was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.

MASTER: But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then?

FRIDAY: They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.

MASTER: Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away, and
eat them, as these did?

FRIDAY: Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

MASTER: Where do they carry them?

FRIDAY: Co to other place, where they think.

MASTER: Do they come hither? -

FRIDAY: Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.

MASTER: Have you been here with them?

FRIDAY: Yes, I been here. [Points to the northwest side
of the island, which it seems was their side.]

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on
the farther part of the island, on the same man-eating
occasions that he was now brought for; and some time
after, when I took the courage to carry him to that side,
being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew
the place and told me he was there once when they eat up-
twenty men, two women, and one child; he could not tell
twenty in English, but he numbered them by laying so
many stones on a row and pointing to me to tell them
over. . -
I have told this passage because it introduces whatfol-m
lows; that after I had had this discourse with him, I asked i

(
him how far it was from our island to the shore, and
whether the canoes were not often lost; he told me there
was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that after a little
way out to the sea, there was a current and a wind, al-
ways one way in the morning, the other in the afternoon.

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the
tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterwards under-
stood it was occasioned by the great draft and reflux of
the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth, or the gulf, of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and this
land which I perceived to the west and northwest was
the great island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth
of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what
nation were near; he told me all he knew with the great-
est openness imaginable; I asked him the names of the
several nations of his sort of people, but could get no
other name than Caribs; from whence I easily understood
that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on
the part of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoko to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha.
He told me that up a great way beyond the moon, that
was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white-bearded men, like

from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this island and get among these white men; he told me,
"Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe"; I could not under-
stand what he' meant, or make him describe to me what
he meant by "two canoe," til] at last, with great difficulty,
I found he meant it must be in a large great boat, as big
as two canoes. '

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well and from this time I entertained some hopes
that, one time or other, I might find an opportunity to
make my escape from this place and that this poor savage
might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one time,
who made him? The poor creature did not understand me
at all, but thought I had asked who was his father; but I
took it by another handle and asked him who made the
sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods;
he told me it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond
all. He could describe nothing of this great person but
that he was very old; much older, he said, than the sea
or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then,
if this old person had made all things, why did not all
things worship him. He looked very grave, and with a
perfect look of innocence, said, "All things do say '0!' to
him." I asked him if the people who die in his country
went away anywhere; he said, yes, they all went to Bena- '
muckee; then I asked him whether these they eat up
went thither too. He said, "Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the know]?
edge of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of
all things lived up there, pointing up towards Heaven.
That He governs the world by the same Power and Provi-
dence by which He made it. That He was omnipotent,
could do everything for us, give everything to us, take
everything from .us; and thus by degrees I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem
us, and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and
His being able to hear us, even into Heaven;'he told me
one day that if our God could hear us up beyond the
sun, He must needs be a greater God than their Bena-
muckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not
hear till they went up to the great mountains where he
dwelt, to speak to him; I asked him if he ever went thither
to speak to him; he said, no; they never went that were
young men; none went thither but the old men, who he
called their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it
to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say
0 (so he called saying prayers), and then came back and
told them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that
there is priestcraft even amongst the most blinded, igno-
rant pagans in the world; and the policy of making a
secret religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the
people to the clergy, is not only to be found in the Roman
but perhaps among all religions in the world, even among
the most brutish and barbarous savages.

I endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday,
and told him that the pretense of their old men going up
the mountains to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a
cheat, and their bringing word from thence what he said
was much more so; that if they met with any answer or
spake with anyone there, it must be with an evil spirit.
And then I entered into a long discourse with him about
the Devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God,
his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up
in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead
of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made
use of to delude mankind to his ruin; how he had a secret
access to .our passions and to our affections, to adapt his
snares so to our inclinations as to cause us even to be our

own tempters and to run upon our destruction by our
own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in" his
mind about the Devil, as it was about the being of a God.
Nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even
the necessity of a great First Cause and overruling, gov-
eming Power, a secret directing Providence, and of the
equity and justice of paying homage to Him that made
us, and the like. But there appeared nothing of all this' 1n
the notion of an evil spirit, of his original, his being, his
nature, and above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to
draw us in to do so too; and the poor creature puzzled me
once in such a manner, by a question merely natural and
innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had
been talking a great deal to him of the power of God, His
omnipotence, His dreadful nature to sin, His being a con-
suming fire to the workers of miq quigi; how, as He had
made us all, He could destroy us an all the world in a

moment; and he listened withy great seriousness to me all
the while.

After this, I had been telling him how the Devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence and to
ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like.
"Well," says Friday, "but you say, God is so strong, so
great; is He not much strong, much might as the Devil?"
"Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is stronger than the Devil,
God is above the Devil, and therefore we pray to God to
tread him down under our feet and enable us to resist
his temptations and quench his fiery darts." "But," says he
again, "if God much strong, much might as the Devil,
why God no kill the Devil, so make him no more do
wicked?"

I was strangely surprised at his question, and after all,
though I was now an old man, yet I was but a young
doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver of
difficulties. And at first I could not tell what to say, so I
pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he said.
But he was too earnest for an answer to forget his ques-
tion; so that he repeated it in the very same broken words
as above. By this time I had recovered myself a little,
and I said, "God will at last punish him severely; he is
reserved for the judgment and is to be cast into the bot-
tomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not
satisfy Friday, but he returns upon me, repeating my
words, " 'Reserve at last,' me no understand; but why not
kill the Devil now, not kill great ago?" "You may as well
ask me," said I, "why God does not kill you and I, when
we do wicked things here that offend Him. We are pre-
served to repent and be pardoned." He muses awhile at
this. "Well, well," says he, mighty affectionately, "that
well; so you, I, Devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God
pardon all." Here I was run down again by him to the
last degree, and it was a testimony to me how the mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reasonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a worship or
homage due to the supreme being of God, as the con:
sequence of our nature, yet nothing but Divine revela-
tion can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ and of a
redemption purchased for us, of a Mediator of the new
covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God's
throne; I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven can
form these in the soul; and that therefore the Gospel of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean, the Word of
God and the Spirit of God promised for the guide and
sanctifier of His people are the absolutely necessary in-
structors of the souls of men, in the saving knowledge
of God, and the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me
and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden oc-
casion of going out; then sending him for something a
good way off, I seriously prayed to God that He would
enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, assist-
ing by His Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant creature
to receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ,
reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to speak
so to him from the Word of God as his conscience might
be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When
he came again to me, I entered into a long discourse with
him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel
preached from Heaven, viz., of repentance towards God,
and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to
him, as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took
not on Him the nature of angels but the seed of Abra-
ham, and how for- that reason the fallen angels had no
share in the redemption; that He came only to the lost
sheep of the House of Israel, and the like.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all
the methods I took for this poor creature s instruction and
must acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the
same principle will find, that in laying things open to
him, I' really informed and instructed myself in many
things, that either I did not know or had not fully con-
sidered before, but which occurred naturally to my mind
upon my searching into them for the information of this
poor savage; and I had more affection in my inquiry after
things upon this occasion than ever I felt before; so
that whether this poor wild wretch was the better for
me, or no, I had great reason to be thankful that ever he
came to me. My grief set lighter upon me, my habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond measure; and when I
reflected that in this solitary life which I had been con-
fined to I had not only been moved myself to look up to
Heaven and to seek to the Hand that had brought me
there; but was now to be ma'de an instrument under
Providence to save, the life and, for aught I knew, the
soul of a poor savage, and bring him to the hue knowl-
edge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he
might know Christ Jesus, to know whom is life eternal;
I say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
run through every part of my soul, and I frequently re-
joiced that ever I was brought to this place, which I had
so often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that
could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of
my time, and the conversation which employed the hours
between Friday and I was such as made the three years
which we lived there together perfectly and completely
happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be
formed in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason
to hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally
penitent, and comforted, restored penitents; we had here
the Word of God to read and no farther off from His
Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England.

I always applied myself in reading the Scripture to let
him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I
read; and he again, by his serious inquiries and ques-
tionings, made me, as I said before, a much better scholar
in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever have been
by my own private mere reading. Another thing I cannot
refrain from observing here also, from experience in this
retired part of my life, viz., how infinite and inexpressible
a blessing it is that the knowledge of God and of the
doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus is so plainly laid
down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and un-
derstood, that as the bare reading the Scripture made me
capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for
my sins, and laying hold 'of a Saviour for life and salva-
tion, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedience to
all God's commands, and this without any teacher or in-
structor, I mean, human; so the same plain instruction
sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature
and bringing him to be such a Christian as I have known
few equal to him in my life.

As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and contention
which has happened in the world about religion, whether
niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church government,
they were all perfectly useless to us; as for aught I can
yet see, they have been to all the rest in the world. We
had the sure guide to Heaven, viz., the Word of God;
and we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of the
Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by His Word,
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of His Word; and I cannot
see the last use that the greatest knowledge of the dis-
puted points in religion, which have made such con-
fusions in the world, would have been to us, if we could
have obtained it; but I must go on with the historical
part of things, and take every part in its order.

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him and
speak fluently, though in broken English, to me, I ac-
quainted him with my own story, or at least so much of
it as related to my coming into the place; how I had
lived there, and how long. I let him into the mystery, for
such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was
wonderfufly delighted with, and I made him a belt, with
a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers
in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a
hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon, in some
cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the country of Europe, and par-
ticularly England, which I came from; how we lived, how
we worshipped God, how we behaved to one another;
and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I
gave him an account of the wreck which I had been on
board of and showed him as near as I could the place
where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before,
and gone. .

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces.
Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great
while, and said nothing; I asked him what it was he
studied upon; at last says he, "Me see such boat like come
to place at my nation."

I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined farther into it, I understood by him
that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon
the country where he lived; that is, as he explained it,
was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose and
drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought of
men making escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come; so I only inquired after a de-
scription of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him when he added

.'with some warmth, "We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him if there was any
\white mans, as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he
said, "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how

. many; he told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him

then what become of them; he told me, "They live, they
dwefl~ at my nation."

L" ' This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to ,the
ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as I now
call it; and who, after the ship was struck on the rock
and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in
their boat and were landed upon that wild shore among
the savages.

Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was
become of them. He assured me they lived still there; that
they had been there aboutfxouiw
let them alone, and gave them victu s o v .
him how it came to pass they did not kill them and ea
them. He said, "No, they make brother with them"; the
is, as I understood him, a truce. And then he added,
"They no eat mans but when make the war ii "- '
to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time that being on
the top of the hill, at the east side of the island from
whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day discovered
the main, or continent of America, Friday, the weather
being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main-
land and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance
from him. I asked him what was the matter. "0 joy!" says
he, "0 glad! There see my country, there my nation!"

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance
discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be
in his own country again; and this observation of mine
put a great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday as I was be-
fore; and I made no doubt but that if Friday could get
back to his own nafion again, he would not only forget all
his religion but all his obligation to me; and would be
forward enough to give his countrymen an account of me
and come back, perhaps with a hundred or two of them,
and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry
as he used to be with those of his enemies, when they
were taken in war. '

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for
which I was very sorry afterwards. However, as my
jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little
more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as
before; in which I was certainly in the wrong too, the
honest grateful creature having no thought about it but
what consisted with the best principles, both as a reli-
gious Christian and as a grateful friend, as appeared
afterwards to my full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him to see if he would discover any
of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I
found everything he said was so honest and so innocent
that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and in
spite of all my uneasiness he made me at last entirely
his own again, nor did he in the least perceive that I was
uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather be-
ing hazy at sea so that we could not see the continent, I
called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you wish yourself
in your own country, your own nation?" "Yes," he said,
he be much 0 glad to be at his own nation. "What would
you do there?" said I; "would you turn wild again, eat
men's flesh again, and be a savage as you were before?"
He looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said,
"No, no; Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray
God, tell them to eat com-bread, cattle--flesh, milk, no eat
man again." "Why then," said I to him, "they will kill
you." He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, they
no kill me, they willing love learn." He meant by this, they
would be willing to learn. He added, they learned much
of the bearded mans that come in the boat. Then I asked
him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that and
told me he could not swim so far. I told him I would make
a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would go
with him. "I go!" says I; "why, they will eat me if I come
there." "No, no," says he, "me make they no eat you; me
make they much love you." He meant he would tell them
how I had killed his enemies and saved his life, and so
he would make them love me; then he told me as well as
he could how kind they were to seventeen white men, or
bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore there
in distress.

From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with these bearded men,
who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not
doubting but, if I could, we might find some method to
escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a good
company together, better than I could from an island
forty miles oil the shore, and alone without help. So after
some days I took Friday to work again, by way of dis-
course, and told him I would give him a boat to go back
to his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to my
frigate, which lay on the other side of the island, and
having cleared it of water, for I always kept it sunk in the
water, I brought it out, showed it him, and we both went
into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it,
would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I
could; so when he was in, I said to him, "Well, now,
Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull
at my saying so, which it seems was because he thought
the boat too small to go so far. I told him then I had a
bigger; so the next day I went to the place where the fiISt
boat lay which I had made, but which I could not get into
water. He said that was big enough; but then, as I had
taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that
it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat
would do very well and would carry "much enough
victual, drink, bread"; that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
design of going'overwith him to the continent, that I told
him we would go and make'one as big' as that, and he
should go home in it. He answered not one word, but
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the
matter with him. He asked me again thus, "Why you
angry mad with Friday? what me done?" I asked him
what he meant; I told him I was not angry with him at
all. "No angry! no angry!" says he, repeating the words
several times, "Why send Friday home away to my na-
tion?" "Why," says I, "Friday, did you not say you wished
you were there?" "Yes, yes," says he, "wish be both there,
no wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he
would not think of going there without me. "I go there,
Friday!" says I, "what shall I do there?" He turned very
quick upon me at this: "You do great deal much good,"
says he, "you teach wild mans be good sober tame'mans;
you tell them know God, pray Cod, and live new life."
"Alas! Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what thou
sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says
he, "you teachee me good, you teachee them good." "No,
no, Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave me
here to live by myself, as I did before." He looked con-
fused again at that word, and running to one of the
hatchets which he used to Wear, he takes it up hastily,
comes and gives it me. "What must I do with this?" says I
to him. "You take, kill Friday," says be. "What must I kill
you for?" said I again. He returns very quick, "What you
send Friday away for? Take, kill Friday, no send Friday
away." This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand
in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him, that
I told him then, and often after, that I would never send
him away from me if he was willing to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled
affection to me, and that nothing should part him from
me, so I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his
own country was laid in his ardent afiection to the people
and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as I
had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought or
intention or desire of undertaking it. But still I found a
strong inclination to my attempting an escape as aboye,
founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse,
viz., that there were seventeen bearded men there; and
therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with
Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a
large periagua or canoe to undertake the voyage. There
were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet,
not of periaguas and canoes, but even of good large
vessels. But the main thing I looked at was to get one so
near the water that we might launch it when it was made,
to avoid the mistake I committed at first.

At last, Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it,
nor can I tell to this day what wood to call the tree we
cut down, except that it was very like the tree we call
fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it
was much of the same color and smell. Friday was for
burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for
a boat. But I showed him how rather to cut it out with
tools, which, after I had showed him how to use, he did
very handily; and in about a month's hard labor, we fin-
ished it and made it very handsome, especially when with
our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and'
hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat; after
this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the
water. But when she was in, she would have carried
twenty men with great ease. ,

When she was in the water, and though she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along; so I asked him if he would, and if we
might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, "he venture over
in her very well, though great blow wind." However, I
had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that was
to make a mast and sail, and to fit her with an anchor and
cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so I
pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I found
near the place, and which there was great plenty of in
the island, and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it. But as to
the sail, that was my particular care; I knew I had old
sails, or rather pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had
had them now six and twenty years by me and had not
been very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I
should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt
but they were all rotten, and indeed most of them were
so; however, I found two pieces which appeared pretty
good, and with these I went to work, and with a great
deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching (you may be
sure) for want of needles, I at length made a three-
comered ugly thing, like what we call in England a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom,
and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our
ships' longboats sail with, and such as I best knew how
to manage; because it was such a one as I had to the boat
in which I made my escape from Barbary, as related in
the first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last work, viz.,
rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them
very complete, making a small stay and a sail, or foresail
to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward; and which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her, to
steer with; and though I was but a bungling shipwright,
yet as I knew the usefulness, and even necessity of such a
thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it that at
last I brought it to pass; though considering the many
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labor as making the boat.

After all this was done too, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat;
for though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he
knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder; and
was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to
and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the 'sail
jibed, and filled this way, or that way, as the course we
sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one
astonished and amazed. However, with a little use I made
all these things familiar to him; and he became an expert
sailor, except that as to the compass, I could make him
understand very little of that. On the other hand, as there
was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any
fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a
compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night
and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and
then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth ear of;
my captivity in this place; mm?
I had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of
the account, my habitation being quite of another kind
than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of
my landing here with the same thankfulness to God for
His mercies as at first; and if I had such cause of acknowl-
edgment at first, I had much more so now, having such
additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me,
and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speed-
ily delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my
thoughts that my deliverance was at hand, and that I
should not be another year in this place. However, I went
on with my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, as
usual; I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before. _

The rainy season was in the meantime upon us, when
I kept more within doors than at other times; so I had
stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her
up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I
landed my rafts from the ship and, hauling her up to the
shore, at high water mark, I made my man Friday dig a
little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enough to fleet in; and then
when the tide was out, we made a strong darn cross the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay dry, as to
the tide from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a
great many boughs of trees, so thick that she was as well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the mouths

of November and December, in which I designed to make
my adventure.

I Dip My Hands in Blood
\

\VHEN the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather, I
was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first thing
I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being
the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week or a
fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our
boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this
kind, when I called to Friday, and 'bid him go to the
seashore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, ar DIP MY HANDS 1N BLOOD 2;;

thing- which we generally got once a week, for the sake of
the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long
gone when he came running back and flew over my outer!
wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground or the!
steps he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak tog
him, he cries out to me, "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow
0 bad!" "What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O yonder,
there," says he, "one, two, three canoe! one, two, three!"
By his way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but
on inquiry I found it was but three. "Well, W
I, "do not be frighted"; so I heartened him up as well as
I could. However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly
scared; for nothing ran in his head but that they were
come to look for him and would cut him in pieces and
eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that I scarce
knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and
that they would eat me as well as him; "but," says I,
"Friday, we must resolve to fight them; can you fight,
Friday?" "Me shoot," says he, "but there come many great
number." "No matter for that," said I again, "our guns
will fright them that we do not kill"; so I asked him,
whether if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me
and stand by me and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me
die when you bid die, master"; so I went and fetched a
good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good
a husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When
he had drank it, I made him take the two fowling pieces,
which we always carried, and load them with large swan-
shot, as big as small pistol bullets; then I took four
muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of
bullets each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by
my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspec-
five-glass and went up to the side of the hill, to see what
I could discover; and I found quickly, by my glass, that
there were one-and-tweng'saymgthree prisoners, and
three canoesE'End'thatltHeir whole business seemed to be
the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies,
a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing else more than, as
I had observed, was usual with them.

I observed also that they were landed, not where they
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my
creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came close almost down to the sea. This, with the ab-
horrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation that I came down
again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down
to them, and kill them all; and asked him if he would
stand by me. He was now gotten over his fright, and his
spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheerful and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged, as before, between us; I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the other
three myself; and in this posture we marched out. I took
a small bottle of rum in my pocket and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullets; and as to orders,
I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir
or shoot or do anything till 'I bid him and in the mean-
time not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a
compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get
over the creek, as to get into the wood; so that I might
come within shoot of them before I should be discovered,
which I had seen by my glass, it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts
returning, I began to abatemy resolution; I do not mean
that I entertained any fear of their number; for as-they
were naked, unarmed wretches, 'tis certain I was superior
to them; nay, though I had been alone; but it occurred
to my thoughts what call, what occasion, much less what
necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in blood, to
attack people who had neither done or intended me any
wrong; who, as to me, were innocent and whose barba-
rous customs were their own disaster, being in them a
token indeed of God's having left them, with the other
nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity and
to such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an execu-
tioneer of His Justice; that whenever He thought fit, He
would take the cause into His own hands and by national
vengeance punish them as a people for national crimes;
but that, in the meantime, it was none of my business;
that it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was a
declared enemy and in a state of war with those very
particular people; and it was lawful for him to attack
them; but I could not say the same with respect to me.
These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts
all the way as I went that I resolved I would only go and
place myself near them, that I might observe their barba-
rous feast and that I would act then as God should direct;
but that unless something ofiered that was more a call to
me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all '
possible wan'ness and silence, Friday following close at
my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood,
on the side which was next to them; only that one corner
of the wood lay between me and them; here I called softly
to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just
at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and
bring me word if he would see there plainly what they
were doing; he did so and came immediately back to me
and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that
they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little from them, which he said they would kill
next; and which fired all the very soul within me, he
told me it was not one of their nation but one of the
bearded men, who he had told me of that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very
naming the white bearded man, and going to the tree, I
saw plainly by my glass a white man who lay upon the
beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European
and had clothes on.

There was another tree and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within
half shot of them; so I withheld my passion, though I was
indeed enraged to the highest degree, and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which
held all the way, till I came to the other tree; and then
I came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full
view of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled
together, and had just sent the other two .to butcher the
poor Christian and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to
their fire, and they were stooped down to untie the bands
at his feet. I turned to Friday. "Now, Friday," said I, "do
as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," says
I, "do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set
down one of the muskets and the fowling piece upon the
ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the
like; then asking him if he was ready, he said, '~'Yes."
"Then fire at them," said I; and the same moment I fired
also. -

Friday took his aim so much better than I that on the
side that he shot he killed two of them and wounded
three more; and on my side, I killed one and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consterna-
tion; and all of them, who were not hurt, jumped up upon
their feet, but did not immediately know which way to
run or which way to look; for they knew not from whence
their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon
me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did;
so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling piece, and Friday did
the like; he sees me cock and present; he did the same
again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he.
"Let fly, then," says I, "in the name of God!" and with that
I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did
Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with what I
called swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we' found only
two drop, but so many were wounded that they run about
yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody,
and miserably wounded most of them; whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged
pieces and taking up the musket which was yet loaded;
"follow me," says I, which he did with a great deal of
courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot; as soon as I
perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could and
bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I could,
which, by the way, was not very fast, being loaden with
arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor victim,
who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore, be-
tween the place where they sat and the sea; the two
butchers who were just going to work with him had left
him at the surprise of our first fire and fled in a terrible
fright to the sea-side and had jumped into a canoe, and
three more of the rest made the same way; I turned to
Friday and bid him step forwards and fire at them. He
understood me immediately, and running about forty
yards, to be near them, he shot at them, and I thought he
had killed them all; for I see them all fall of a heap into
the boat; though I saw two of them up again quickly.
However, he killed two of them and wounded the third,
so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat, as if he
had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim, and.
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up and asked him
in the Portuguese tongue what he was. He answered in
Latin, "Christianus"; but was so weak and faint that he
could scarce stand or speak; I took my bottle out of my
pocket and gave it him, making signs that he should
drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread,
which he eat; then I asked him what countryman he was.
And he said "Espagniole"; and being a little recovered,
let me know by all the signs he could possibly make how
much he was in my debt for his deliverance. "Seignior,"
said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, "we will
talk afterwards, but we must fight now; if you have any
strength left, take this pistol and sword and lay about
you." He took them very thankfully, and no sooner had he
the arms in his hands, but as if they had put new vigor
into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury and had
cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as .
the whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures
were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces that
they fell down for mere amazement and fear and had no
more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh
had to resist our shot; and that was the case of those five
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell
with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with the
fri ht.

Ig kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to Friday and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired
and fetch the arms which lay there that had been dis-
charged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giv-
ing him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest
a ain, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the sav-
ages, who made at him with one of their great wooden
swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as
bold and as brave as could be imagined, though weak,
had fought this Indian a good while and had cut him two
great wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down,
being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body and killed him upon the spot, before
I, who was running to help him, could come near him.

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
\vretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet;
and with that he dispatched those three, who, as I said
before, were wounded at first and fallen, and all the rest
he could come up with; and the Spaniard coming to me
for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling pieces, with
which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them
both; but as he was not able to run, they both got from
him into the wood, where Friday pursued them and'killed
one of them; but the other was too nimble for him, and
though he was wounded, yet had plunged himself into
the sea and swam with all his might all to those two who
were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with
one wounded, who we know not whether he died or no,
were all that escaped our hands of one-and--twenty. The
account of the rest is as follows:

3 killed at our first shot from the tree.

2 killed at the next shot.

2 killed by Friday in the boat.

2 killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.

1 killed by ditto in the wood.

3 killed by the Spaniard.

4 killed, being found dropped here and there of their

wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them.

4 escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not
dead.

2--1 in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of gunshot; and though Friday made two or three shot
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
would fain have had me took one of their canoes and
pursued them; and indeed I was very anxious about their
escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back perhaps with two or three hun-
dred of their canoes and devour us by mere multitude; so
I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one
of their canoes, I jumped in and bade Friday follow me;
but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find an-
other poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and foot,
as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead
with fear, not knowing what the matter was; for he had
not been able to look up over the side of the boat, he
was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so
long that he had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only un-
bound in order to be killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him\
and tell him of his deliverance, and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram, which, with the
news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up
in the boat; but when Friday came to hear him speak,
and look in his face, it would have moved any one to
tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him,
hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his
own face and head, and then sung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature. It was a good while be-
fore I could make him speak to me, or tell me what was

the matter; but when he came a little to himself he told
me that it was,his father.

Itisnot'easy foTrFeioexpress how it moved me to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage, at the sight of his father and of his being de-
livered from death; nor indeed can I describe half the
extravagances of his affection after this; for he went into
the boat and out of the boat a great many times. When
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his
breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom, half
an hour together, to nourish it; then he_took his arms and
ankles, which were numbed and stiif with the binding,
and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I, per-
ceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of my

bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with
the other savages, who were now gotten almost out of
sight; and it was happy for us that we did not; for it blew
so hard within two hours after, and before they could be
gotten a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so
hard all night, and that from the northwest, which was
against them, that I could not suppose their boat could
live, or that they ever reached to their own coast.

But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time. But after I thought he could leave him a little, I
called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing,
and pleased to the highest extreme; then I asked him if
he had given his father any bread. He shook his head and
said, "None; ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake
of bread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also
gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket also two or
three bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of
them for his father. He had no sooner given his father
these raisins but I saw him come out of the boat and run
away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a rate;
for he was the swiftest fellow of his foot that ever I saw;
I say, he run at such a rate that he was out of sight, as it
were, in an instant; and though I called, and hallooed,
too, after him, it was' all one, away he went, and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I found
his pace was slacker because he had something in his
hand.

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug or pot to bring his father some
fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or loaves
of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water he car-
ried to his father. However, as I was very thirsty too, I
took a little sup of it. This water revived his father more
than all the mm or spirits I had given him, for he was
just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drank, I called to him to know if
there was any water left; he said "Yes"; and I bade hiem,
give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want
of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday
brought to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak,
and was reposing himself upon a green place under the
shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been
tied with. When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him
with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the bread
and began to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful
of raisins; he looked up in my face with all the tokens of
gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any
countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so
exerted himself in the fight that he could not stand up
upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so painful
to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub
his ankles and bathe them with rum, as he had done his
father's.

I observed the poor afiectionate creature, every two
minutes or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned
his head about to see if his father was in the same place
and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he found he
was not to be seen; at which he started up and without
speaking a word flew with that swiftness to him, that one
could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he
went. But when he came, he only found he had laid him-
self down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me
presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let F riday
help him up if he could and lead him to the boat, and
then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I would
take care of him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow, tool:
the Spaniard quite up upon his back andg carried him
away to the boat and set him down softly upon the side,
or gunnel, of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it,
and then lifted him quite in and set him close to his
father, and presently stepping out again, launched the
boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster than I
could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too; so he
brought them both safe into our creek; and leaving them
in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he
passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he
went; he told me, "Go fetch more boat"; so away he went
like the wind; for sure never man or horse run like him,
and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon
as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and then went
to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but
they were neither of them able to walk; so that poor
Friday knew not what to do.

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and call-
ing to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he
came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them up both together
upon it between us. But when we got them to the outside
of our wall or fortification, we were at a worse loss than
before; for it was impossible to get them over, and I was
resolved not to break it down. So I set to work again; and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very hand-
some tent, covered with old sails, and above that with
boughs of trees, being in the space without our outward
fence, and between that and the grove of young wood
which I had planted. And here we made them two beds
of such things as I had, viz., of good rice-straw, with
blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them, on each bed.

My Island Was Now 'Peopled
\

MY ISLAND was now peopled, and I thought myself very
3 rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which IMY ISLAND WAS NOW PEOPLED 267

frequently made, how like a king I looked. First of all,"
the whole country was my own mere prope , so that I
had an undoubted right of dominion. Secon y, my

ple were perfectly subjected. I was absolute lord and
lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were ready
to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion of it,
for me. It was remarkable, too, we had but three sub-
jects, and they were of three different religions. My man
Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a
cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. However, I 3.1-!
lowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions.
But this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pris-
oners, and given them shelter and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them. And the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take
a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my par-
ticular flock, to be killed; when I cut OR the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday
to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very
good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, having put
some barley and rice also into the broth; and as I cooked
it without doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall,
so I carried it all into the new tent; and having set a table
there for them, I sat down and eat my own dinner also
with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them and en-
couraged them; Friday being my interpreter, especially to
his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too; for the
Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well..

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets
and other firearms, which for want of time we had left
upon the place of battle; and the next day I ordered him
to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which
lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive; and
I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and
which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I could not
bear to see them, if I went that way. All of which he
punctually performed, and defaced the very appearance
of the savages being there, so that when I went again I
could scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the
comer of the wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
two new subjects; and first I set Friday to inquire of his
father what he thought of the escape of the savages in
that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was that the savages in the boat never could live
out the storm which blew that night they went off but
must of necessity be drowned or driven south to those
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured
as they were to be drowned if they were cast away; but
as to what they would do if they came safe on shore, he
said he knew not; but it was his opinion that they were so
dreadquy frighted with the manner of their being at-
tacked, the noise and the fire, that he believed they would
tell their people they were all killed by thunder and
lightning, not by the hand of man, and that the two which
appeared, viz., Friday and me, were two heavenly spirits
or furies, come down to destroy them, and not men with
weapons. This he said he knew, because he heard them
all cry cut so in their language to one another, for it was
impossible to them to conceive that a man could dart
fire and speak thunder and kill at a distance without lift-
ing up the hand, as was done now. And this old savage
was in the right; for, as I understood since by other hands,
the savages never attempted to go over to the island
afterwards; they were so terrified with the accounts
given by those four men (for it seems they' did escape the
sea) that they believed whoever went to that enchanted
island would be destroyed with fire from the gods.

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while and kept always
upon my guard, me and all my army; for as we were now
{our of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of
them fairly in the open field at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take my
former thoughts of a voyage to the main into considera-
tion; being likewise assured by Friday's father that I
might depend upon good usage from their nation on his
account, if I would go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had
a serious discourse with the Spaniard and when I under-
stood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and
Portuguese, who,'having been cast away and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace indeed with the
savages but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and
indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their
voyage and found they were a Spanish ship bound from
the Rio de la Plata to the Havana, being directed to leave
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver,
and to bring back what European goods they could meet
' with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on
board, who they took out of another wreck; that five of
their own men were drowned when the first ship was
lost, and that these escaped, through infinite dangers and =
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal
coast, where they expected to have been devoured every
moment.

He told me they had some arms with them, but they?)
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder
or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
powder but a little, which they used at their first landing
to provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. He said they had many consultations about it,
but that having neither vessel, or tools to build one, or
provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in
tears and despair.

I asked him how he thought they would receive a pro-
posal from me, which might tend towards an escape; and
whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told him with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery
and ill usage of me, if I put my life in their hands; for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of
man; nor did men always square their dealings by the
obligations they had received so much as they did by the
advantages they expected. I told him it would be very
hard that I should be the instrument of their deliverance
and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner
in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to be '
made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident soever
brought him thither. And that I had rather be delivered
up to the savages and be devoured alive than fall into
the merciless claws of the priests and be carried into the
Inquisition. I added that otherwise I was persuaded, if
they were all here, we might, with so many hands, build
a bark large enough to carry us all away, either to the
Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast
northward. But that if in requital they should, when I had
put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among
their own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to
them and make my case worse than it was before.

He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuity
that their condition was so miserable and they were so
sensible of it that he believed they would abhor the
thought of using any man unkindly that should con-
tribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he
would go to them with the old man and discourse with
them about it, and return again and bring me their an-
swer. That he would make conditions with them upon
their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and that
they should swear upon the Holy Sacraments and the
Gospel to be true to me and to go to such Christian coun-
try as that I should agree to, and no other; and to be
directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they
were landed safely in such country as I intended; and
that he would bring a contract from them, under their
hands, for that purpose.

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself tha
he would never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gav
him orders; and that he would take my side to the las
drop of his blood, if there should happen the least brea
of faith among his countrymen.

He told me they were all of them very civil honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagina-
ble, having neither weapons or clothes, nor any food, but
at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes
of ever returning to their own country; and that he was
sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live and
die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to r
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had
gotten all things in a readiness to go, the Spaniard him-
self started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on the otherl
hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied in it;

and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades
lg for at least half a year. The case was thus:

Weaver}: us now about a month, during which

time I had let him see in what manner I had provided,
with'the assistance of Providence, for my support; and
he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had laid
up; which, as it was more than sufficient for myself, so it
was not sufficient, at least without good husbandry, for
my family, now it was increased to number four. But
much less would it be sufficient, if his countrymen, who
were, as he said, fourteen still alive, should come over.
And least of all would it be sufficient to victual our ves-
sel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the
_ Christian colonies of America. So he told me he thought
5 it would be more advisable to let him and the two others
- dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could
spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another
harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his mum-
trymen when they should come; for want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into
another. "You know," says he, "the Children of Israel.
though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out
of Egypt, yet rebelled even again God Himself that de-
livered them, when they came to want bread in the
wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased with his pro-
posal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell
to digging, all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we
were furnished with permitted; and in about a month's
time, by the end of which it was seed time, we had gotten
as much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed twenty-
two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice, which
was, in short, all the seed we had to spare; nor indeed did
we leave ourselves barley sufficient for our own food for
the six months that we had to expect our crop, that is to
say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for
sowin ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
groun in the country.

Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went
freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion;
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our
thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the
means of it out of mine; to this purpose, I marked out
several trees which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down; and then I
caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought on
that aflair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large
tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good
oak, near two foot broad, thirty-five foot long, and from
two inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labor
it took up, anyone may imagine.

At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock
of tame goats as much as I could; and to this purpose I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and my--
self with Friday the next day, for we took our turns, and
by this means we got above twenty young kids to breed.
up with the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we
saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I mused
such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that
I believe, had we been at Alicante, where the raisins of
the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty or eighty
barrels; and these with our bread was a great part of ourfood, and very good living too, I assure you; for it is an
exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island,
but, however, it was enough to answer our end; for from
our twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in and
thrashed out above 220 bushels; and the like in proportion
of the rice, which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been
on shore with me; or if we had been ready for a voyage. it
would very plentifully have victualed our ship, to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, of
America.

When we had thus housed and secured our magazine
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-work, viz.,
great baskets in which we kept it; and the Spaniard was
very handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed
me that I did not make some things for defense of this
kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now having a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the
main, to see what he could do with those he had left
behind him there. I gave him a strict charge in writing
not to bring any man with him who would not first swear
in the presence of himself and of the old savage that he
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island, who was so kind to send for
them in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by and defend him against all such attempts, and
wherever they Went, would be entirely under and sub-
jected to his commands; and that this should be put in
writing and signed with their hands. How we were to
have this done, when I knew they had neither pen or
ink, that indeed was a question which we never ask .

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the oldAN ENGLISH SHIP 27 5 l

savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to come in, or ratherk
were brought in, when they came' as prisoners to be de-
voured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it and
about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them
to be very good husbands of both and not to use either
of them but upon urgent occasion.

This was a cheerful work being the first measures used 4 u";
by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven S '1
years and some days. I gave them provisions of bread and
of dried grapes sufficient for themselves for many days,
and sufficient for all their countrymen for about eight
days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, I see them
go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang
out at their return, by which I should know them again
when they came back, at a distance, before they came on
shore.

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the
moon was at full; by my account, in the month of October;
but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once
lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I kept even
the number of years so punctually as to be sure that I was
right, though as it proved, when I afterwards examined
my account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.

An English Ship

IT WAS no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history.
I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man
Friday came running in to me and called aloud, "Master,
master, they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and regardless of danger I went out, as
soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove,
which, by the way, was by this time grown to be a very
thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went without
my arms, which was not my custom to do. But I was sur-
prised when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a
boat at about a league and half's distance, standing
in for the shore, with a shoulder-of--mutton sail, as they
call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in;
also I observed presently that they did not come from
that side which the shore lay on, but from the souther-
most end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bid him lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we might not know yet whether they were
friends or enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having taken
the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to
take my view the plainer without being discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor at about two
leagues and a half's distance from me, south-southeast,
but not above a league and a half from the shore. By my'
observation it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and
the boat appeared to be an English longboat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the
joy of seeing a ship, and one who I had reason to believe
was manned by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had some
secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from whence
they came, bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first
place, it occurred to me to consider what business an
English ship could have in that part of the world, since
it was not the way to or from any part of the world where
the English had any traffic; and I knew there had been no
storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that if
they were English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design; and that I had better
continue as I was than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him, when he may
think there is no possibility of its being real. That such
hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have
made any observations of things can deny; that they are
certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse of
spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them
seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not
suppose they are from some friendly agent, whether
supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question;
and that they are given for our good?

The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious
by this secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I
had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition
than before, as you will see presently.

I had not kept myself long in this posture but I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at for the convenience of landing; however, as
they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the
little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts; but run their
boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from
me, which was very happy for me, for otherwise they
would have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle and perhaps
have plundered me of all I had.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that they
were Englishmen, .at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There were
in all eleven men, whereof three of them, I found, were'
unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the first
four or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those
three out of the boat as prisoners. One of the three I
could perceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, aflliction, and despair, even to a kind of ex-
travagance; the other two I could perceive lifted up their
hands sometimes, and appeared concerned indeed, but
not to such a degree as the first.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me
in English as well as he could, "0 master! you see English
mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why," says
I, "Friday, do you think they are a-going to eat them

- then?" "Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no,"
says I, "Friday, I am afraid they will murder them indeed,
but you may be sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was; but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift
up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or
sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to
see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in my
body seemed to run chill in my veins.

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him; or that I had any way to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have
rescued the three men, for I saw no firearms they had
among them; but it fell out to my mind another way.

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the
country. I observed that the three other men had liberty
to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all three
upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in
despair.

This put "me in mind of the first time when I came on
shore, and began to look about me; how I gave myself
over for lost; how wildly I looked round me; what dread-
ful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in the tree all
night for fear of being devoured by wild beasts.

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providenfial driving of the ship nearer the
land by the storms and tide, by which I have since been
so long nourished and supported; so these three poor
desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
and supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
effectually and really they were in a condition of safety
at the same time that they thought themselves lost and
their case desperate.

So little do we see before us in the world and so much!
reason have we to depend cheerftu upon the great,
Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures .
so absolutely destitute but that in the worst circumstances
they have always something to be thankful for, and some-
times are nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, '
are even brought to their deliverance by the means by
which they seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high water when these people
came on shore, and while partly they stood parleying with
the prisoners they brought, and partly while they ram-
bled about to see what kind of a place they were in, they
had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, and the water
was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave
it over, and away they strolled about the country again;
and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling
them off from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't
ye? she will float next tide"; by which I was fully con-
firmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were.

All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation near the top of the hill; and very glad I was
to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less
than ten hours before the boat could be on float again,
and by that time it would be dark, and I might be at more
liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if
they had any.

In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle, as be-
fore; though with more caution, knowing I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, who I had made an excellent marksman
with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself two
fowling pieces, and I gave him three muskets; my figure,
indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goatskin
coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon
each shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was dark. But about two o'clock being the
heat of the day, I found that, in short, they were all gone
straggling into the woods and, as I thought, were laid
down to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious
for their condition to get any sleep, were, however, set
down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter
of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any
of the rest.

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them and
learn something of their condition. Immediately I
marched m the figure as above, my man Friday at a good
distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but
not making quite so staring a specter-like figure as I did.

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?

They started up at the noise, but were ten times mor/e\
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure 6}
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought
I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke
to them in English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be sur-
prised at me; perhaps you may have a friend near you,
when you did not expect it." "He must be sent directly
from Heaven then," said one of them very gravely to me,
and pulling off his hat at the same time to me, "for our
condition is past the help of man." "All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I. "But can you put a stranger in the
way how to help you, for you seem to me to be in some
great distress? I saw you when you landed, and when you
seemed to make applications to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I
talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?"
"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I, "if God had sent an
angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed,
and armed after another manner than you see me in;
pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman,
and disposed to assist you, you see; I have one servant
only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can
we serve you? What is your case?"

"Our case," said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are so near; but in short, sir, I was com-
mander of that ship; my men have mutinied against me,
they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me,
and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a
passenger, where we expected to perish, behaving the
place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think
of it."

"Where are those brutes, your enemiesl": said I. "Do
you know where they are gone?" "There they lie, sir,"
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my heart trembles
for fear they have seen us and heard you speak; if they
have, they will certame murder us all."

:.--""Have they any firearms?" said I. He answered they had
' nly two pieces, and one which they left in the boat.
ElilVell then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are
. asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
esperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to
ow any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed
all the rest would return to their duty. I asked him which
they were. He told me he could not at that distance de-
scribe them, but he would obey my orders in anything I
would direct. "Well," says I, "let us retreat out of their
view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve
further"; so they willingly went back with me, till the
woods covered us from them.

"'Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your de-
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions with
me?" He anticipated my proposals by telling me that both
.he and the ship, if recovered, should-be wholly directed..',,..'.>4.,

 

AN ENGLISH/SHIP :83 .

   
   
 
   

and commanded by me in everything; and if the ship was
not recovered, he would live and die with me in what p
of the world soever I would send him; and the two othe
men said the same.

"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two. 1. That
while you stay on this island with me, you will not pre-
tend to any authority here; and if I put arms into your
hands, you will upon all occasions give them up to me
and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and
in the meantime, be governed by my orders. 2. That if the
ship is or may be recovered, you will carry me and my
man to England, passage free." -.

He gave me all the assurances that the invention an
faith of man could devise that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands and besides would owel
his life to me and acknowledge it upon all occasions as '
long as he lived.

"Well then," said I, "here are three muskets for you,
with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He showed all the testimony of his
gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly
guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but the best method I could think of was to
fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if any was not
killed at the first volley, and ofiered to submit, we might
save them, and so put it wholly upon God's Providence
to direct the shot.

He said very modestly that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it, but that those two were incorrigible
villains and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship, and if they escaped, we'should be undone still;
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. "Well then," says I, Inecesp . '
sity legitimates my advice; for it is the only way to save
our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of shedding
blood, I told him they should go themselves and manage
as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after, we saw two of them on their feet.
I asked him if either of them were of the men who he
had said were the heads of the mutiny. He said, "No."
"Well then," said I, "you may let them escape; and Provi-
dence seems to have wakened them on purpose to save
themselves. Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your
fault." -

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him
in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades
with him, with each man a piece in his hand. The two
men who were with him, going first, made some noise, at
which one of the seamen, who was awake turned about,
and seeing them coming cried out to the rest; but it was
too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I
mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own
piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men they
knew that one of them was killed on the spot, and the
other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started
up upon his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other;
but the captain, stepping to him, told him 'twas too late
to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his
villainy, and with that word knocked him down with
the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more.
There were three more in the company, and one of them
was also slightly wounded. By this time I was come, and
when they saw their danger and that it was in vain to
resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they would give him any as-
surance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship and afterwards in carrying her backOUR BUSINESS WAS TO RECOVER THE 8H1? 285'

to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all
the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired,
and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against, only I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her and bring
away the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by,
three straggling men, that 'were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
fired, and seeing their captain, who' before was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound also; and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first, and told
him my whole history, which he heard with an attention
even to amazement; and particularly at the wonderful
manner of my being furnished with provisions and am-
munition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole collection of
wonders, it affected him deeply; but when he reflected
from thence upon himself and how I seemed to have been
preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran
down his face, and he could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried him
and his two men into my apartment, leading them in just
where I came out, viz., at the top of the house, where I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed
them all the contrivances I had made during my long,
long inhabiting that place.

Our Business Was to Recover the Ship

ALL I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but above all, the captain admired my fortificae
tion and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with
a grove of trees, which having been now planted near
twenty years, and the' trees growing must faster than in
England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it
was impassable in any part of it, but at that one side,
where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. I
told him this was my castle and my residence, but that
I had a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither
I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that
too another time; but at present our business was to con-
sider how to recover the ship. I Ie agreed with me as to
that; but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures
to take; for that there were still six-and-twenty hands on
board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by
which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would
be hardened in it now by desperation; and would carry
it on, knowing that if they were reduced, they should be
brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England
or to any of the English colonies; and that therefore there
would be no attacking them with so small a number as
we were.

I mused for some time upon what he said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore some-
thing was to be resolved on very speedily, as well to draw
the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as
to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us; upon
this it presently occurred to me that in a little while the
ship's crew, wondering what was become of their com-
rades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in
their other boat to see for them, and that then perhaps
they might come armed and be too strong for us; this he
allowed was rational.

Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to
stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they
might not carry her off; and taking everything out of her,
leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim; accord-
ingly we went on board, took the arms which were left on
board out of her and whatever else we found there, which
was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit
cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar in a
piece of canvas; the sugar was five or six pounds; all
which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy
and sugar, of which I had had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried away
before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet
they could not carry off the boat.

Indeed, it was not much' 1n my thoughts that we could'
be able to recover the ship; but my view was that if they ,
went away without the boat, I did not much question to'
make her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward Is-
lands and call upon our friends, the Spaniards, in my way,
f or I had them still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs and had
first by main strength heaved the boat up upon the beach
so high that the tide would not fleet her off at high-water
mark, and besides had broke a hole in her bottom too
big to be quickly stopped and were sat down musing
what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun and saw'
her make a waft with her ancient as a signal for the boat l
to come on board; but no boat stirred, and they firedl
several times, making other signals for the boat.

At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them,
by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row
towards the shore, and we found, as they approached,
that there was no less than ten men in her, and that they
had firearms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight
of the men, even of their faces, because the tide having
set them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed
up under shore, to come to the same place where the
other had landed, and where the boat lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them and
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the
men in the boat, of whom he said that there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this
conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted.
But that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief
officer among them, and all the rest, they were as out-
rageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
prehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.

I smiled at him and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the operation of fear. That seeing al-
most every condition that could be was better than that
which we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect
that the consequence, whether death or life, would be
sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of
the circumstances of my life and whether a deliverance
were not worth venturing for. "And where, sir," said I,
"is your belief of my being preserved here on purpose to
save your life, which elevated you a little while ago? For
my part," said I, "there seems to be but one thing amiss
in all the prospects of it." "Whath that?" says he. "Why,"
said I, " 'tis that, as you say, there are three or four honest
fellows among them, which should be spared; had they
been all of the wicked part of the crew I should have
thought God's Providence had signaled them out to de-
liver them into your hands; for depend upon it, every man
of them that comes ashore are our own and shall die or
live as they behave to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful counte-
nance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set
vigorously to our business. We had, upon the first ap-
pearance of the boat's coming from the ship, considered
of separating our prisoners, and had indeed secured them
effectually.

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday and one of the three
delivered men to my cave, where they were remote
enough and out of danger of being heard or discovered,
or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could
have delivered themselves. Here they left them bound,
but gave them provisions, and promised them, if they
continue there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they
should be put to death without mercy. They promised
faithfully to bear their confinement with patience and
were very thankful that they had such good usage as to
have provisions and a light left them; for Friday gave
them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their com-
fort; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel
over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were
kept pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my service
upon their captain's recommendation and upon their sol-
emnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them and
the three honest men we were seven men, well armed;
and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were a-coming, considering that
the captain had said there were three or four honest men
among them also.

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad
to see; for I was afraid they would rather have left the
boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore, with
some hands in her, to guard her; and so we should not
be able to seize the boat.

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to
their other boat; and it was easy to see that they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of
all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might,
to try if they could make their companions hear; but all
was to no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring, and
fired a volley of their small arms, which indeed we heard,
and the echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one;
those in the cave we were sure could not hear, and those
in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet
durst give no answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this that, as
they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on board
again, to their ship, and let them know that the men were
all murdered and the longboat staved; accordingly, they:
immediately launched their boat again, and gat all of?
them on board.

The captin was terribly amazed and even confounded
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again
and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should
have recovered; but he was quickly as much frighted the
other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we '
perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which it seems they con-
sulted together upon, viz.,' to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country
to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were
at a loss what to do; for our seizing those seven men on
shore would be no advantage to us, if we let the boat
escape; because they would then row away to the ship,
and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set
sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost.

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present; the seven men came on
shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us
to come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my habita-
tion lay; and we could see them plainly, though they
could not perceive us. We could have been very glad
they would have come nearer to us, so that we might-
have fired at them, or that they would have gone farther
off, that we might have come abroad.

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where
they could see a great way into the valleys and woods,
which lay towards the northeast part, and where the
island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were
weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the
shore, nor far from one another, they sat down together
under a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought fit to
have gone to sleep here, as the other party of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were too full
of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they had
to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me, upon
this consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would
all fire a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows
hear, and that we should all sally upon them, just at the
juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and they
would certainly yield and we should have them without
bloodshed. I liked the proposal, provided it was done
while we were near enough to come up to them before
they could load their pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take; at length I told
them there would be nothing to be done in my opinion
till night, and then, if they did not return to the boat,
perhaps we might find a way to get between them and
the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in
the boat, to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long
consultations, we saw them start all up and march down
towards the sea. It seems they had such dreadful appre-
hensions upon them of the danger of the place that they
resolved to go on board the ship again, give their com-
panions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be as it really was, that they had given over
their search, and were for going back again; and the
captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to
sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which an-
swered my end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate<<to go over the
little creek westward, towards the place where the sav-
ages came on shore when Friday was rescued; and as soon
as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile
distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they could and
wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon
as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they should
return it again, and then keeping out of sight, take a
round, always answering when the other hallooed, to
draw them as far into the island and among the woods as
possible and then wheel about again to me, by such ways
as I directed them.

They were' just going into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallooed; an they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward towards the
voices they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where, the water being up, they could not get
over, and called for the boat to come up and set them
over, as indeed I expected.

When they had set themselves over, I observed that
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and,
as it were, in a harbor within the land, they took one of
the three men out of her to go along with them, and left
only two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump
of a little tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for, and immediately leaving
Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I took
the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their sight,
we surprised the two men before they were aware; one
of them lying on Shore, and the other being in the boat;
the fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking and '
going to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in
upon him, and knocked him down, and then called out
to him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man.

There needed very few arguments to persuade a single
man to yield, when he saw five men upon him and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not
only to yield but afterwards to join very sincere with us.

In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest that they drew them
by hallooing and answering from one bill to another, and

from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired
them but left them, where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and indeed
they were heartily tired themselves also by the time they
came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work
with them.

It was several hours after Friday came back to me be-
fore they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along, and could also hear them
answer and complain how lame and tired they were and
not able to come any faster, which was very welcome
news to us.

At length they came up to the boat; but 'tis impossible
to express their confusion, when they f0und the boat fast
aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two
men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a
most lamentable manner, telling one another they were
gotten into an enchanted island; that either there were
inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered, or else
there were devils and spirits in it, and they should be all
carried away and devoured.

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times, but no answer. After
some time, we could see them, by the little light there
was, run about, wringing their hands like men in despair;
and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the
boat to rest themselves, then come ashore again, and walk
about again, and so over the same thing again.

My men would fain have me given them leave to fall
upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to take
them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few
of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling to
hazard the killing any of our own men, knowing the other
were very well armed. I resolved to wait to see if they did
not separate; and therefore to make sure of them, I drew
my ambuscade nearer and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands'and feet, as close to the
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered,
and get as near them as they could possibly before they
offered to fire;

They had not been long in that posture, but that the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny
and had now shown himself the most dejected and dis-
pirited of all the rest, came walking towards them. with
two more of their crew; the captain was so eager, as hav-
ing this principal rogue so much in his power, that he
could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to
be sure of him; for they only heard his tongue before.

But when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, start-7

ing up on their feet, let fly at them.

The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man
was shot into the body, and fell just by him, though he
did not die till an hour .or two after; and the third run
for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was now eight men, viz., myself,
generalissirno, Friday, my lieutenant-general, the captain
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war, who we
had trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they
could not see our number; and I made the man they had
left in the boat, who was now one of us, call to them by
name, to try if I could bring them to a parley and so might
perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just as we
desired. For indeed it was easy to think, as their condi-
tion then was, they would be very willing to capitulate;
so he calls out as loud as he could to one of them, "Tom
Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately,

H
"Who's that? Robinson?" for it seems he knew his voice.
T' other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith,
throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men
this moment."

"Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith
again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our captain, and
fifty men with him, have been hunting you this two hours;
the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am
a prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all lost."

"Will they give us quarter then," says Tom Smith, "and
we will yield?" "I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield,"
says Robinson; so he asked the captain, and the captain
then calls himself out, "You, Smith, you know my voice.

If you lay down your arms immediately and submit, you
shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, cap-
tain, give me quarter; what have I done? They have been
all as bad as I"; which, by the way, was not true neither;
for it seems this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain, when they first mutinied, and used
him barbarously, in tying his hands and giving him in-
jurious language. However, the captain told him he must
lay down his arms at discretion and trust to the gov-
ernor's mercy; by which he meant me, for they all called
me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms and begged
their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them and two more, who bound them all; and then my
great army of fifty men, which, particularly with those
three, were all but eight, came up and seized upon them
all and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one
more out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat and think of seiz-
ing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure
to parley with them. He expostulated with them upon
the villainy of their practices with him, and at length
upon the farther wickedness of their design, and how cer-
tainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the
end, and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent and begged hard for
their lives; as for that, he told them they were none of his
prisoners, but the commander of the island; that they
thought they had set him on shore in a barren uninhab-
ited island, but it had pleased God so to direct them that
the island was inhabited, and that the governor was an
Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he sup-
posed he would send them to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, who he was com-
manded by the governor to advise to prepare for death;
for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the cap-
tain to intercede with the governor for his life; and all the
rest begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be
sent to' England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the
ship; so I retired in the dark from them, that they might
not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the
captain to me; when I called, as at a great distance, one
of the men was ordered to speak again and say to the
captain, "Captain, the commander calls for you"; and
presently the captain replied, "Tell his excellency, I am
just a-coming." This more perfectly amused them, and
they all believed that the commander was just by with
his fifty men.
Deliverance Put in My Hands

 

UPON the captainis coming to me, I told him my project
for seizing the ship, which he liked of wonderquy well,
and resolved to put it in execution the next morning.

But in order to execute it with more art, and secure of
success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that
he should go and take Atkins and two more of the worst
of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday and the two
men who came on shore with the captain.

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and it
was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in their con-
dition.

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full description; and as it was fenced
in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough, con-
sidering they were upon their behavior.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and
tell me, whether he thought they might be trusted or no,
to go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of
the injury done him, of the condition they were brought
to; and that though the governor had given them quarter
for their lives, as to the present action, yet that if they
were sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains,
to be sure; but that if they would join in so just an at-
tempt as to recover the ship, he would have the governor's
engagement for their pardon. -

Anyone may guess how readily such a proposal would
be accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on
their knees to the captain and promised with the deepest
imprecations that they would be faithful to him to theDELIVERANCE PUT IN MY HANDS 299

last drop, and that they should owe their lives to him and
would go with him all over the world; that they would
own him for a father to them as long as they lived.

'Well," says the captain, "I must go and tell the gov-
ernor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him%
to consent to it." So he brought me an account of the
temper he found them in; and that he verily believed;
they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again and choose out five of them, and
tell them they might see that he did not want them, that
he would take out those five to be his assistants, and that
the governor would keep the other two and the three
that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hos-
tages, for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be
hanged in chains alive upon the shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them that the gov-
ernor was in earnest; however, they had no way left them
but to accept it; and it was now the business of the pris-
oners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty. '

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition.
1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the two
prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their char-
acters from the captain, I had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms. 3. The other two who I had kept
till now in my apartment, pinioned; but upon the cap-
tain's motion, had now released. 4. The single man taken
in the boat. 5. These five released at last. So that they
were thirteen in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the
cave, and the two hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with\
these hands on board the ship; for as for me and my man
Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind, and it was employment enough
for us to keep them asunder, and supply them with
victuals.

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast;
but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply them
with necessaries; and I made the other two carry pro-
visions to a certain distance, where Friday was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with
the captain, who told them I was the person the governor
had ordered to look after them, and that it was the gov~
ernor's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my
direction; that if they did, they should be fetched into
the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as we never suf-
fered them to'see me as governor, so I now appeared as
another person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison,
the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with'four
other men; and himself and his mate and six more went
in the other. And they contrived their business very well;
for they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as
they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail
them and tell them they had brought off the men and the
boat, but that it was a long time before they had found
them, and the like; holding them in a chat till they came
to the ship's side; when the captain and the mate entering
first with their arms, immediately knocked down the sec-
ond mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their
muskets. Being very faithfully seconded by their men,
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter decks and began to fasten the hatches to keep
them down who were below, when the other boat and
their men entering at the fore chains, secured the fore-
castle of the ship and the scuttle which went down intothe cook room, making three men they found there pris-

oners.

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the cap- '
tain ordered the mate with three men to break into the
roundhouse, where the new rebel captain lay, and having
taken the alarm, was gotten up, arid'mtwomcn'an a
boy had gotten firearms in their hands; and when the
mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them and wounded the
mate with a musket ball, which broke his arm and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.

The mate, calling for help, rushed however into the
roundhouse, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at
his mouth, and came out again behind one of his ears, so
that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives
lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me, to give me notice of his success, which
you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having sat
watching upon the shore for it till near two of the clock
in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down;\
and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept l
very sound, till I was something surprised with the noise
of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man call
me by the name of "Governor, Governor," and presently
I knew the captain's voice; when, climbing up to the top
of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, be
embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer,"
says he, "there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are
we and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship,
and there she rode within little more than half a mile of
the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as
they were masters of her; and the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the
little creek; and the tide being up, the captain had
brought the pinnace in near the place where I at first
landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door.

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise. For
I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer him one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held fast by him or I should have fallen
to the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me; after I had
drank it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I
could speak a word to him.

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy
as I, only not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a
thousand kind tender things to me, to compose me and
bring me to myself; but such was the flood of joy in my
breast that it put all my spirits into confusion; at last it
broke out into tears, and in a little while after I recov-
ered my speech. \_

Then I took my turn and embraced him as my deliverer,
and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him
as a man sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the
whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that
such things as these were the testimonies we had of a
secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an
evidence that the eyes of an infinite Power could search
into the remotest comer of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever He pleased.
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to

Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who .

had not only in a miraculous manner provided for one in
such a wilderness and in such a desolate condition, but
from whom every deliverance must always be acknowl-
edged to proceed. .

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship
afforded, and such as the wretches that had been so long
his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this he called
aloud to the boat, and bid his men brin the things ashore
that were for the governor; and indeed it was a present,
as if I had been one, not that was to be carried away along
with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island
still and they were to go without me.

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of excel-
lent cordial waters, six large bottles of madeira wine (the
bottles held two quarts apiece), two pound of excellent
good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and
six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hun--
(Iredweight of biscuit.

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a
bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundance of other things. But besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me
six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stock-
ings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which
had been worn but very little. In a word, he clothed me
from head to foot.

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as anyone
may imagine, to one in my circumstances. But never was
anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awk-
ward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at
their first putting on. '

l
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had;
for it was worth considering whether we might venture
to take them away with us or no, especially two of them,
who we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last
degree; and the captain said, he knew they were such
rogues that there was no ohliging them, and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to
be delivered over to justice at the first English colony he
could come at; and I found that the captain himself was
very anxious about it.

Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst un-
dertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their
own request that he should leave them upon the island.
"I should be very glad of that," says the captain, "with L
all my heart."

"Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and talk with
them for you"; so I caused Friday and the two hostages,
for they were now discharged, their comrades having per-
formed their promise; I say, I caused them to go to the
cave and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to
the bower, and keep them there till I came.

After some time I came thither dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again; being all met,
and the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought ,
before me, and I told them, I had had a full account of
their villainous behavior to the captain, and how they had
run away with the ship and were preparing to commit =
farther robberies, but that Providence had ensnared them
in their own ways and that they were fallen into the pit
which they had digged for others.

I let them know that by my direction the ship had been
seized, that she lay now in the road; and they might see
by and by that their new captain had received the reward
of his villainy; for that they might see him hanging at
the yardarm.

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I should not execute them as pirates taken in the
fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had
authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken,
the captain promised them their lives, and they humbly
implored my mercy. But I told them, I knew not what
mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had resolved to
quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage
with the captain to go for England. And as for the cap-
tain, he could not carry them to England other than as
prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny and running
away with the ship; the consequence of which, they must
needs know, would be the gallows; so that I could not
tell which was best for them, unless they had a mind to
take their fate in the island; if they desired that, I did
not care, as I had liberty to leave it; I had some inclina-
tion to give them their lives, if they thought they could
shift on shore.

They seemed very thankful for it, said they would},
much rather venture to stay there than to be carried to \
England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some dificulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him that
they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had
offered them so much favor, I would be as good as my
word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did
not like it, he might take them again if he could catch
them. '

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I aceord<<
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the
woods to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some firearms, some ammunition, and some direc-
tions how they should live very well, if they thought fit.

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told
the captain that I would stay that night to prepare my
things, and desired him to go on board in the meantime,
and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore
the next day for me; ordering him in the meantime to
cause the new captain who was killed to be hanged at the
yardarm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to
me to my apartment and entered seriously into discourse
with them of their circumstances. I told them I thought
they had made a right choice; that if the captain carried
them away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed
them the new captain hanging at the yardarm of the ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay,
I then told them I would let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it easy
to them. Accordingly I gave them the whole history of
the place and of my coming to it; showed them my fortifi-
cations, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured
my grapes; and in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the sixteen
Spaniards that were to be expected; for whom I left a
letter, and made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves.

I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowling
pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and half
of powder left; for after the first year or two I used but
little, and wasted none. I gave them a description of the
way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story; and
I told them I would prevail with the captain to leave them
two barrels of gunpowder more and some garden seeds,
which I told them I would have been very glad of; also
I gave them the bag of peas which the captain had
' brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and in-
crease them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day and went
on board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but
did not weigh that night. The next morning early, two of
the five men came swimming to the ship's side, and mak-
ing a most lamentable complaint of the other three,
begged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they
should be murdered and begged the captain to take them
on board, though be hanged them immediately.

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
without me; but after some difficulty, and after their sol-
cmn promises of amendment, they Were taken on board,
and were some time after soundly whipped and pickled;
after which, they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men,
to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took and were
very thankful for; I also encouraged them by telling them'
that if it lay in my way to send any vessel to take them in,
I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board for
relics, the great goatskin cap I had made, my umbrella,
and my parrot; also I forgot not to take the money I for-
merly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless _
that it was grown rusty, or tarnished, and could hardly
pass for silver, fill it had been a little rubbed and handled;
as also the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish
ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I
found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had
been upon it eight-and-twenty years, two menths, and
nineteen days; being delivered from this second captivity
the same day of the month that I first made my escape
in the barco-longo, from among the Moors of Sallee.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England,
the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-and-
~five years absent.

Settling in the World

 

WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger
to all the world as if I had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward, who I had left in trust
with my money, was alive; but had had great misfortunes
in the world; was become a widow the second time, and
very low in the world. I made her easy as to what she
owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble; but
on the contrary, in gratitude to her former care and faith-
fulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would
afford, which, at that time, would indeed allow me to do
but little for her; but I assured her, I would never forget
her former kindness to me nor did I forget her, when I
had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its place.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father
was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct, ex-
cept that I found two sisters, and two of the children of
one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago given over
for dead, there had been no provision made for me; so
that in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me;
and that little money I had would not do much for me as
to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude indeed, which I didSETTLING IN THE! WORLD 309

not expect; and this was that the master of the ship, whom
I had so happily delivered, and by the same means saved
the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome ac-
count to the owners of the manner how I had saved the
lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and all to-
gether made me a very handsome compliment upon the
subject, and a present of almost two hundred petmd-SJ
sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the circum-
stances of my life, and how little way this would go to-
ward settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon
and see if I might not come by some information of the
state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was be-
come of my partner, who I had reason to suppose had
some years now given me over for dead.

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I ar-
rived in April following; my man Friday accompanyingl
me very honestly in all these ramblings and proving a.
most faithful servant upon all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by mquiry, and ta
my particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of;
the ship, who first took me up at sea off of the shore of- :
Africa. He was now grown old and had left OE the sea,'
having put his son, who was far from a young ma , 1n 0
his ship; and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man
did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly knew him; but I
soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon
brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who
I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaint-
ance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation
and my partner. The old man told me he had not been my
the Brazils for about nine years; but that he could assure
me that when he came away my partner was living, but
the trustees, who I had joined with him to take cogni-
zance of my part, were both dead; that however, he be-
lieved that I would have a very good account of the
improvement of the plantation; for that, upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees
had given in the account of the produce of my part of the
plantation to the procurator fiscal, who had appropriated
it, in case I never came to claim it, one third to the king,
and two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor and for the conver-
sion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I
appeared, or anyone for me, to claim the inheritance, it
should be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could
not be restored; but he assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue (from lands) and the movicdore, or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along
that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every
year a faithful account of the produce, of which they re-
ceived duly my moiety.

I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement
he had brought the plantation, and whether he thought
it might be worth looking after; or whether, on my going
thither, I should meet with no obstruction to my possess-
ing my just right in the moiety.

. He told me, he could not tell exactly to what degree
'the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my
partner was growing exceeding rich upon the enjoying
but one half of it; and that to the best of his remem-
brance, he had heard that the king's third of my part,
which Was, it seems, granted away to some other mon-
astery, or religious house, amounted to above two hun-
dred moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made
of that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my
name being also enrolled in the register of the country;
also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees were
very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he be-
lieved I would not only have their assistance for putting
me in possession but would find a very considerable sum
of money in their hands for my account, being the pro-
duce of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and
before it was given up as above, which, as he remem-
bered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account and inquired of the old captain how it came to
pass that the trustees should thus dispose my effects,
when he knew that I had made my will and had made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, etc.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor until
some certain account should come of my death; and that .
besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing
so remote; that it was true he had registered my will and
put in his claim; and could he have given any account of
my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procure-
tion, and taken possession of the ingenio, so they called
the sugar-house, and had given his son, who was now at
the Brazils, order to do it.

"But," says the old man, "I have one piece of news to
tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you
as the rest, and that is, that believing you were lost, and
all the world believing so also, your partner and trustees
did offer to account to me, in your name, for six or eight
of the first years of profits, which I received; but there
being at the time," says he, "great disbursements for in-
creasing the works, building an ingenio, and buying
slaves, it did not amount to near so much as afterwards
it produced. However," says the old man, "I shall give
you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it."

After a few days' farther conference with this ancient '
friend, he brought me an account of the six first years'
income of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
merchant trustees, being always delivered in goods, viz.,
tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses,
etc., which is the consequence of a sugar work; and I
found by this account, that every year the income con-
siderably increased; but as above, the disbursement being
large, the sum at first was small. However, the old man
let me see, that he was debtor to me 470 moidores of gold,
besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of
tobacco, which were lost in his ship; he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after
my leaving the place.

The good man then began to complain of his misfor-
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new
ship. "However, my old friend," says he, "you shall not
want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son
returns, you shall be fully satisfied." ,

Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me 160
Portugal moidores in gold; and giving me the writing of
his title to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils
in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son
another, he puts them both into my hands for security of
the rest.

I was too much m0ved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man to be able to bear this; and remembering
what he had done for me, how he had taken me up at
sea, and how generously he had used me on all occasions,
and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me,
I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me.
Therefore, first I asked him, if his circumstances admitted
him to spare so much money at that time, and if it would
not straiten him. He told me he could not say but it might
straiten him a little; but however, it was my money, and
I might want it more than he.

Everything the good man said was full of afiection,
and I could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In
short, I took 100 of the moidores and called for a pen and
ink to give him a receipt fOr them; then I returned him
the rest, and told him if ever I had possession of the plan-
tation, I would return the other to him also, as indeed I
afterwards did; and that as to the bill of sale of his part
in his son's ship, I would not take it by any means; but
that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough
to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he
gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny
more from him.

When this was passed, the old man began to ask me if
he should put me into a method to make my claim to my
plantation. I told him I thought to go over to it myself.
He said I might do so if I pleased; but that if I did not,
there were ways enough to secure my right, and immedi-
ately to appropriate the profits to my use; and as there
were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to
Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public register,
with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that I was alive,
and that I was the same person who took up the land for
the planting the said plantation at first.

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation aflixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter
of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the
place, and then prOposed my staying with him till an ac-
count came of the return. '

Never anything was more honorable than the proceed-
ings upon this procuration; for in less than seven months
I received a large packet from the survivors of my has);
tees, the merchants, for whose account I went to sea, in
which were the following particular letters and papers
enclosed.

First, there was the account current of the produce of
my farm, or plantation, from the year when their fathers
had balanced with my old Portugal captain, being for
six years; the balance appeared to be llflmoidores in
my favor. 'N

Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the eHects in their hands, before the
government claimed the administration, as being the ef-
fects of a person not to be found, which they called civil
death; and the balance 'of this, the value of the planta-
tion increasing, amounted to [38,892] crusadoes, which
made 8241 moidores.

Thirdly, there was the Prior of the Augustines' account,
who had received the profits for above fourteen years;
but not being to account for what was disposed to the
hospital, very honestly declared he had 872 moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account; as
to the king's part, that refunded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an
account how the estate was improved, and what it pro-
duced a year, with a particular of the number of squares
or acres that it contained; how planted, how many slaves
there Were upon it, and making two-and-twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave M arias to
thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me
very passionately to come over and take possession of my
own; and in the meantime to give him orders to whom
he should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself;
concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his family; and sent me, as a present, seven fine
leopards' skins, which he had it seems received from
Africa, by some other ship which he had sent thither, and
who it seems had made a better voyage than I. He sent
me also live chests cf excellent sweetmeats, and an hun-

dred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
moidores.

aw

By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped '

me 1200 chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest
of the whole account in gold.

I might well say now indeed that the latter end of Job
was better than the beginning. It is impossible to express
here the flutterings of my very heart when I looked over
these letters, and especially when I found all my wealth
about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the
same ships which brought my letters brought my goods;
and the effects were safe in the river before the letters
came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew sick;
and had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial,
I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset Nature,(
and I had died upon the spot.

Nay after that, I continued very ill, and was so some'
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of
the real cause of my illness being known, he ordered me
to be let blood; after which I had relief and grew well.
But I verily believe, if it had not been eased by a vent:
given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died.

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above .42.
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well
it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as
sure as an estate of lands in England. And in a word, I
was in a condition which I scarce knew how to under-
stand, or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to 'me in my distress, kind to me in my begin-
ning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that .-
was sent me; I told him that next to the Providence of
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to him;
and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I would
do a hundredfold. So I first returned to him the hundred
moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge
for the 470 moidores, which he had acknowledged he
owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible; after
which, I caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering
him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my planta-
tion, and appointing my partner to account to him and
make the return by the usual fleets to him in my name;
and a clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred
moidores a year to him, during his life, out of the effects,
and fifty moidores a year to his son after him, for his life.
., And thus I rcquited my old man.

' I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence had
thus put into my hands; and indeed I had more care upon
my head now, than I had in my silent state of life in the
island, where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had
nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great
charge upon me, and my business was how to secure it.
I had ne'er a cave now to hide my money in, or a place
where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew moldy
and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it. On
the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust
with it. My old patron, the captain, indeed was honest,
and that was the only refuge I had.

In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to
summon me thither, but now I could not tell how to think
of going thither till I had settled my affairs and left my
effects in some safe hands behind me. At first I thought of
my old friend the widow, who I knew was honest, and
would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but
poor, and for aught I knew, might be in debt; so that in
a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself,
and take my effects with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon
this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow, whose
husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it
was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So
the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write
to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but
to go find her out and carry her in money a hundred
pounds from me and to talk with her and comfort her in,"
her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a
further supply. At the same time I sent my two sisters in-
the country each of them a hundred pounds, they being,
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances;
one having been married and left a widow; and the other
having a husband not so kind to her as he should be.

But among all my relations, or acquaintances, I could
not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross
of my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils and leave
things safe behind me; and this greatly perplexed me. 'l
I had once a mind to have goneto the Brazils, andSS
have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, naturalized f
to the place; but I had some little scruple in my mind"
about religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which
I shall say more presently. However, it was not religion
that kept me from going there for the present; and as I
had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of
the country, all the while I was among them, so neither
did I yet; only that now and then having of late thought
more of it than formerly, when I began to think of living
and dying among them, I began to regret my having pro-
fessed myself a Papist, and thought it might not be the
best religion to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
ept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did
ot know with whom to leave my effects behind me; so
resolved at last to go to England with it, where, if I

arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance,
or find some relations that would be faithful to me; and
accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my
wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first,
the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give
answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things
I had from thence; and first, to the Prior of St. Augustine
I wrote a letter full of thanks for their just dealings, and
the offer of the 872 moidores which was indisposed of,
which I desired might be given, 500 to the monastery,
and 372 to the poor, as the Prior should direct, desiring
the good padre's prayers for me, and the like.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with
all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty
called for; as for sending them any present, they were far
above having any occasion of it.

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his in-
dustiy in the improving the plantation and his integrity
in increasing the stock of the works, giving him instruc-
tions for his future government of my part, according to
the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom I de-
sired him to send whatever became due to me, till he
should hear from me more particularly; assuring him that
it was my intention not only to come to him, but to settle
myself there for the remainder of my life. To this I added
a very handsome present of some Italian silks for his wife
and two daughters, fer such the captain's son informed
me he had; with two pieces of fine English broadcloth,OVER THE. MOUNTAINS 319

the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black haize,
and some Flanders lace of a good value.

Over the Mountains

 

turned all my eEects into good bills of exchange, my 11
difficulty was, which way to go to England. I had been
accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange
aversion to going to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difliculty in-
creased upon me so much, that though I had once
shipped my baggage, in order to go, yet I altered my
mind, and that not once but two or three times.

It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
might be some of the reason. But let no man slight the
strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such mo-
ment. Two of the ships which I had singled out to go in,
I mean more particularly singled out than any other, that
is to say, so as in one of them to put my things on board
and in the other to have agreed with the captain; I say,
two of these ships miscarried, viz., one was taken by the
Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Start, near
Torbay, and all the people drowned except three; so that
in either of those vessels I had been made miserable; and
in which most, it was hard to say.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I- communicated everything, pressed me
earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go by land to the
Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle,
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land
to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Ma-
;drid, and so all the way by land through France.

In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by

HAVING thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, 8.2%
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to
travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in haste,
and did not value the charge, was by much the pleasanter
way; and to make it more so, my old captain brought an
English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who
was willing to travel with me. After which, we picked up
two more English merchants also, and two young Portu-
guese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that we,
were in all six of us, and five servants; the two merchants
and the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one
servant between two, to save the charge; and as for me,
I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant, be-
sides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be
capable of supplying the place of a servant on the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company
being all very well mounted and armed, we made a little
troop, whereof they did me the honor to call me captain,
as well because I was the oldest man as because I had two
servants, and indeed was the original of the whole jour-
ney.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals,
so I shall trouble you now with none of my land journal;
but some adventures that happened to us in this tedious
and diflicult journey I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court
of Spain, and to see what was worth observing; but it
being the latter part of the summer, we hastened away,
and set out from Madrid about the middle of October.
But when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way with an account that
so much snow was fallen on the French side of the moun-
tains, that several travelers were obliged to come back to
Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard,
to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so in-
deed; and to me that had been always used to a hot cli-
mate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce bear
any clothes on, the cold was insufierable; nor indeed was
it more painful than it was surprising to come but ten
days before out of the Old Castile, where the weather
was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to
feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains so very keen,
so severely cold'as to be intolerable and to endanger be-
numbing and perishing of our fingers and toes.

Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the moun-
tains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which
he had never seen or felt before in his life.

To mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it
continued snowing with so much violence and so long
that the people said winter was come before its time; and
the roads which were dificult before were now quite im-
passable. For, in a word, the snow lay in some places too
thick for us to travel; and being not hard frozen, as is the
case in northern countries, there was no going without
being in danger of being buried alive every step. We
stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when see-
ing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being
better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe that
had been known in the memory of man, I proposed that
we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take ship-
ping for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage.

But while we were considering this, there came in four ,
French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had
found out a guide, who, traversing the country near the /
head of Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by such ways that they were not much incommoded
with the snow; and where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear
them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertaketo carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow,

provided we were armed sufficiently to protect us from
wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows it was
frequent for some wolves to show themselves at the foot
of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food,
the ground being covered with snow. We told him we
were well enough prepared for such creatures as they
were, if he would ensure us from a kind of two-legged
wolves, which we were told, we were in most danger
from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the
way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow
him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their serv-
ants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had
attempted to go, and Were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our
guide, on the 15th of November; and indeed, I was sur-
prised, when instead of going forward, he came directly
back with us, on the same road that we came from Ma-
drid, above twenty miles; when being passed two rivers,
and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in
a warm climate again, where the country was pleasant,
and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turning to his

yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and led us by
such winding ways, that we were insensibly passed the
height of the mountains without being much encumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden, he showed us the
pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne,
all green and flourishing, though indeed it was at a great
distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.

We were a little uneasy however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we could
not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon be past
it all. We found indeed that we began to descend every
day, and to come more north than before; and so depend-
ing upon our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when our guide /
being something before us, and not just in sight, out l
nushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, 1
out of a hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood; two of
the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been half a
mile before us, he had been devoured indeed before we
would have helped him. One of them fastened upon his
horse, and the other attacked the man with that violence
that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough to
draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily; my man Friday being next to me, I bid him ride
up and see what was the matter; as soon as Friday came
in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud as t'other, "0
master! 0 master!" but like a bold fellow, rode directly
up to the poor man and with his pistol shot the wolf that
attacked him into the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having been used to that kind of creature
in his country, had no fear upon him, but went close up
to him and shot him, as above; whereas any of us would
have fired at a farther distance, and have perhaps either
missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man than
I; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with the
noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the dis-
malest howling of wolves, and the noise redoubled by
the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there
had been a prodigious multitude of them; and perhaps
indeed there was such a few as that we had no cause of
apprehensions.

However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that
had fastened upon the horse left him immediately and l
fled; having happily fastened upon his head, where the1
bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth; so that he had'
not done him much hurt. The man indeed was most hurt;
for the raging creature had bit him twice, once on the
arm, and the other time a little above his knee; and he
was just as it were tumbling down by the disorder of his
horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of F riday's pistol
we all mended our pace and rid up as fast as the way
( which was very difficult) would give us leave, to see
what was the matter; as soon as we came clear of the
trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had
been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor
guide; though we did not presently discern what kind of
creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such
a surprising manner, as that which followed between F ri-
day and the bear, which gave us all (though at first we
were surprised and afraid for him) the greatest diversion
- imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and
does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light,
so he has two particular qualities, which generally are the
rule of his actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper
prey; I say, not his proper prey, because though I cannot
say what excessive hunger might do, which was now their
case, the ground being all covered with snow; but as to
men, he does not usually attempt them, unless they first
attack him. On the contrary, if you meet him in the
woods, if you don't meddle with him, he won't meddle
with you; but then you must take care to be very civil to
him, and give him the road; for he is a very nice gentle-
man, he won't go a step out of his way for a prince; nay,
if you are really afraid, your best way is to look another
way and keep going on; for sometimes if you stop, and
stand still, and look steadily at him, he takes it for an
affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him, and it
hits him, though it were but a bit of a stick as big as your
finger, he takes it for an affront and sets all his other busi-
ness aside to pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfac-
tion in point of honor; that is his first quality. The next is,
that if he be once afironted, he will never leave you, night
or day, till he has his revenge; but follows at a good round
rate till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came up to him, he was helping him off from his horse;
for the man was both hurt and frighted, and indeed, the
last more than the first; when on the sudden, we spied
the bear come out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one
it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a
little surprised, when we saw him; but when Friday saw
him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance. "O! O! 0!" says Friday, three times, point--
ing to him; "0 master! You give me te leave! Me shakeel-i
te hand with him. Me make you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. "You fool
you," says I, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up! Eatee
me up!" says Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up.
Me make you good laugh. You all stay here, me show
you good laugh!" So down he sits, and gets his boots OH
in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call the
flat shoes they wear) and which he had in his pocket,
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun away
he flew, swift like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle
with nobody till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him,\
as if the bear could understand him. "Hark ye, hark ye," 1.
says Friday, "me speakee wit you." We followed at a dis-
tance; for now being come down on the Gascoigne side
of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest,
where the country was plain and pretty open, though
many trees in it scattered here and there.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came
up with him quickly and takes up a great stone, and
throws at him, and hit him just on the head, but did him
no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but
it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of
fear, that he did it purely to make the bear follow him
and show us "some laugh," as he called it.

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he turns
about, and comes after him, taking devilish long shides,
and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would have put
a horse to a middling gallop; away runs Friday, and takes
his course, as if he run toward us for help; so we all re-
solved co fire at Once upon the bear, and deliver my man;
though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the hear
back upon us, when he was going about his ovVn busi-
ness another way; and especially I was angry that he had
turned the bear upon us, and then run away; and I called
out, "You dog," said I, "is this your making us laugh?
Come away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the
creature." He hears me, and cries out, "No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, you get much laugh." And as the nimble
creature run two foot for the beast's one, he turned on a
sudden, on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit
for his purpose, he beckoned to us to follow; and dou-
bling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun
down upon the ground, at about five or six yards from the
bottom of the tree.

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a
distance; the first thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the tree,
climbing like a cat, though so monsuously heavy. I was
amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man and couldnot for my life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the

bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to
the small end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got
about half way to him; as soon as the bear got out to that
part where the limb of the tree was weaker, "Hal" says
he to us, "now you see me teachee the bear dance"; so he
falls a-jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear
began to totter, but stood still and begun to look behind
him, to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we did
laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him by a
great deal; when he sees him stand still, he calls out to
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak
English, "What, you no come farther? pray you come far:
ther"; so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and the
bear, just as if he had understood what he said, did come
a little further; then he fell a-jumping again, and the bear '
stopped again.

We thought now was a good time to knock him on the
head, and I called to Friday to stand still, and we would
shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, "O pray! O
pray! No shoot, me shoot, by and then"; he would have
said "by and by." However, to shorten the story, Friday
danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we
had laughing enough indeed, but still could not imagine
what the fellow would do; for first we thought he de-
pended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the hear
was too cunning for that too; for he would not go out far
enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his great
broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what
would be the end of it and where the jest would be at
last.

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing the
bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be .
persuaded to come any farther, "Well, well," says Friday,
"you no come farther, me go, me go; y0u no come to me,
me go come to you"; and upon this, he goes out to the
smallest end of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down
the bough, till he came near enough to jump down on
his feet, and away he run to his gun, takes it up, and
stands still.

"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now?
Why don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says Friday, "no
yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more
laugh"; and indeed so he did, as you will see presently;
for when the bear see his enemy gone, he comes back
.'from the bough where he stood, but did if. mighty lei-
qurely, looking behind him every step and coming back-
ward till he got into the body of the tree; then with the
same hinder end foremost, he came down the tree, grasp<
ing it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very
leisurely; at this juncture, and just before he could set his

. hind feet upon the ground, Friday stepped up close to

. him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot

, him dead as a stone.

" Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh;
and when he saw we were pleased by our looks, he falls
a-laughing himself very loud. "So we kill bear in my
country," says Friday. "So you kill them?" says I; "wh' ,
you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun, but shoot,
great much long arrow."

This was indeed a good diversion to us; but we were
still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run
much in my head; and indeed, except the noise I once
heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard anything that filled me with
so much horror.

These things and the approach of night called us off,
or else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly
have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which
was worth saving; but we had three leagues to go, and
our guide hastened us; so we left him and went forward
on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so
deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the raven-
ous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come down
into the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger to
seek for food; and had done a great deal of mischief in
the villages, where they surprised the country people,
killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and some
people too.

We had one dangerous place to pass, which our guide
told us, if there were any more wolves in the country, we
should find them there; and this was in a small plain, sur-
rounded with woods on every side, and a long narrow
defile or lane, which we were to pass to get through the
wood, and then we should come to the village where we
were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered
the first wood; and a little after sunset when we came
into the plain. We met with nothing in the first wood,
except that in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves
cross the road, full speed one after another, as if they had
been in chase of some prey, and had it in view; they took
no notice of us, and were gone and out of our sight in a
few moments.

Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was a wretched
faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture; for
he believed there were more wolves a--coming. .

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us, bu
we saw no more wolves, till we came through that wood,
whieh was near half a league, and entered the plain; as
soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough
to look about us. The first object we met with was a dead
horse; that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had
killed, and at least a dozen of them at work; we could
not say eating of him, but picking of his bones rather; for
they had eaten up all the flesh before.

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would
have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any
means; for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not
gone half over the plain, but we began to hear the wolves
howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on di-
rectly toward us, all in a body, and most of them in a
line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced
officers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive them;
but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only
way; So we formed in a moment. But that we might not
have too much interval, I ordered that only every other
man should fire, and that the others who had not fired
should stand ready to give them a second volley immedi-
ately, if they continued to advance upon us, and that then
those who had fired at first should not pretend to load
their fusees again, but stand ready with every one a
pistol; for we were all armed with a fusee and a pair of
pistols each man; so we were by this method able to fire
six volleys, half of us at a time; however, at present we
had no necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the en-
emy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire; four of them being shot into the
head, dropped, several others were wounded, and went
bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I found they
stopped, but did not immediately retreat; whereupon, re-
membering that I had been told that the fiercest creatures
were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all-our com
pany to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the 11
tion not altogether mistaken, for upon our shout they
began to retire and turn about; then I ordered a second
volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to the
gallop, and away they went to the woods.

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lose no time, we kept going; but we had
but little more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves
into a readiness, when we heard a tem'ble noise in the
same wood on our left, only that it was farther onward
the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on our side; but the noise in-
creasing, we could easily perceive that it was the howling
and yelling of those hellish creatures; and on a sudden,
we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on our /
left, one behind us, and one on our front, so that we
seemed to be surrounded with 'em; however, as they did
not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as fast as we
could make our horses go, which, the way being very
rough, was only a good large trot; and in this manner we
came in view of the entrance of a wood, through which
we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we
were greatly surprised when coming nearer the lane, or\
pass, we saw a confused number of wolves standing--justu'
at the entrance. ' ' "

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard
the noise of a gun; and looking that way, out rushed a
horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him, full
speed; indeed, the horse had the heels of them; but as '
we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we
doubted not but they would get up with him at last, and
no question but they did. '
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to
the entrance where the horse came out, we found the
carcass of another horse, and of two men, devoured by
the ravenous crdatures, and one of the men was no doubt
the same who we heard fire the gun; for there lay a gun
just by him, fired off; but as to the man, his head and the
upper part of his body was eaten up.

This filled us with horror and we knew not what course
to take, but the creatures resolved us soon; for they gath-
ered about us presently in hopes of prey; and I verily
believe there were three hundred of them. It happened
very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber
trees, which had been cut down the summer before, and
I suppose lay there for carriage; I drew my little troop in
among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line, behind
one long tree, I advised them all to light, and keeping
that tree before us, for a breastwork, to stand in a tri-
angle, or three fronts, enclosing our horses in the center.

We did so, and it was well We did; for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upor: us in
the place; they came on us with a growling kind of a
noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said,
was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon
their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was princi-
pally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us,
which was the prey they aimed it. I ordered our men to
fire as before, every other man; and they took their aim
so sure, that indeed they killed several of the wolves at
the first volley; but there was a necessity to keep a con--
tinual firing; for they came on like devils, those behind
pushing on those before.

When we had fired our second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off, but it was but a moment, for others came
forward again; so we fired two volleys of our pistols, and
I believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or
eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many; yet they
came on again. i

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called
my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better emj
ployed; for with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he ha
charged my fusee and his own, while we were engaged;
but as I said, I called my other man, and giving him a
horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece
of timber, and let it be a large train; he did so, and had
but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to
it, and some were got up upon it, when I, snapping an un-
charged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire; those
that were upon the timber were scorched with it, and six
or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us, with
the force and fright of the fire; we dispatched these in an
instant, and the rest were so frighted with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more ter~
rible, that they drew back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired off in
one volley, and after that we gave a shout; upon this, the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near
twenty lame ones, who we found struggling on the
ground, and fell a-cutting them with our swords, which
answered our expectation; for the crying and howling
they made was better understood by their fellows, so
that they all fled and left us.

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them;
and had it been daylight, we had killed many more. The
field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again;
for we had still near a league to go. We heard the raven-
ous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went
several times; and sometimes we fancied we saw some of
them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not cer-
tain; so in about an hour more, we came to the town
{where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible
i fright, and all in arms; for it seems that the night before
the wolves "and--Some bears had broke into the village in
the night and put them in a terrible fright, and they were
obliged to keep guard night and day, but especially in the
night, to preserve their cattle and indeed their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled with the rankling of his two wounds that he
could go no farther; so we were obliged to take a new
guide there, and go to Toulouse, where we found a warm
climate, a fruitful pleasant country, and no snow, no
wolves, or anything like them; but when we told our
story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground. But
they inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten,
that would venture to bring us that way in such a severe
season; and told us it was very much we were not all
devoured. When we told them how we placed ourselves,
and the horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly,
and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all de~
strayed; for it was the sight of the horses which made the
wolves so furious, seeing their prey; and that at other
times they are really afraid of a gun; but they being ex-
cessive hungry, and raging on that account, the eager-
ness to come at the horses had made them senseless of
danger; and that if we had not by the continued fire, and
at last by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered
them, it had been great odds but that we had been torn
to pieces; whereas, had we been content to have sat still
on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not have
taken the horses for so much their own, when men were
on their backs, as otherwise; and withal, they told us, that
at last, if we had stood all together, and left our horses,
they would have been so eager to have devoured them,
that we might have come off safe, especially having our
firearms in our hands, and being so many in number.

For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my
life; for seeing above three hundred devils come roaring
and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to
shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and
as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those moun-
tains again; I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet with a storm
once a week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France; nothing but what other travel-
ers have given an account of, with much more advantage _
than I can. I traveled from Tou10use to Paris, and with-
out any considerable stay came to Calais and landed safe}
at Dover the fourteenth of January, after having had a
severe cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the center of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new discovered estate safe about
me, the bills of exchange which I brought with me having
been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy councilor was my good '
ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had]
sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, to .
employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely with every-
thing that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my
effects; and indeed, I was very happy from my begin-
ning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of
this good gentlewoman.

And now I began to think of leaving my effects with 5
this woman and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the !
Brazils; but now another scruple came in my way, and

that was I'm rtained some doubts
about the Roman IW espe-
cially in my state of solitude, so I knew there was no
going to the Brazils for me, much less going to settle
there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic
religion without any reserve; unless on the other hand, I
resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr for
religion, and die in the Inquisition; so I resolved to stay
'5 at home, and if I could find means for it, to dispose of my
3 plantation.

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice that he could easily dispose
of it there. But that if I thought fit to give him leave to
' ofier it in my name to the two merchants, the survivors of
my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, who must fully
understand the value of it, who lived just upon the spot,
and who I knew were very rich, so that he believed they
would be fond of buying it, he did not doubt but I should
make 4 or 4,000 pieces of eight the more of it.

Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to
them, and he did so; and in about eight months more,
the ship being then returned, he sent me account, that
they had accepted the offer, and had remitted 33,000
pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to
pay for it.

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me bills of exchange for 32,800 pieces of eight
to me, for the estate; reserving the payment of 100
moidores a year to him, the old man, during his life, and
50 moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them, which the plantation was to make
good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first
part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of Provi-
dence's checker-work, and of a variety which the world
will seldom be able to show the like of. Beginning fool-
ishly, but closing much more happily than any part of it
ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.

Anyone would think that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards; and
so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred, but I was inured to a wandering life, had no fam-
ily, not many relafions, nor, however rich, had I con-
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold my
estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep the country out
of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing
again; especially I could not resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there, and how the rogues I left there had
used them.

My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me that for almost
seven years she prevented my running abroad; during
which time, I took my two nephews, the children of one 2
of my brothers, into my care. The eldest having some~
thing of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him)
a settlement of some addition to his estate, after my de-
cease; the other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after

_. _...a'.

five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterpri young{

fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea.
And this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I
was, to farther adventures myself.

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for first
of all I married, and that not either to my disadvantage o
dissatisfaction,m~had-threepglgld@,_tlvo sons and
daughter. But my wife dying, and my ne ew comin
home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my in-
clination to go abroad and his importunity prevailed and
engaged me to go in his ship, as a private trader to the
East Indies. This was in the year 1694.

\
,/[n this voyage I visited my new .ngpyjnthe. island,
v'saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story of
ltheir lives, and of the villains I left there; how at first they
insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards agreed,

disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the Span-

iards were obliged to use violence with them, how they
were subjected to the Spaniards, how honestly the Span-
iards used them; a history, if it were entered into, as full
of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part; par-
ticularly also as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who

landed several times upon the island, and as to the im-
provement they made upon the island itself, and how five
of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and brought
away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at
my coming, I found about twenty young children on the
island.

Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder,
shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I brought
from England with me, viz., a carpenter and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the island into parts with 'em,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts respectively as they agreed on; and hav-
ing settled all things with them, and engaged them not
to leave the place, I left them there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people to
the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen,
I promised them to send them some women from Eng-
land, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they would ap-
ply themselves to planting, which I afterwards performed.
And the fellows proved very honest and diligent after
they were mastered and had their properties set apart
for them. I sent them also from the Brazils five cows,
three of them being big with calf, some sheep, and some
hogs, which, when I came again, were considerably in-
creased.

But all these things, with 'an account how 300 Carib-
bees came and invaded them, and ruined their planta-
tions, and how they fought with that whole number
twice, and were at first defeated, and three of them
killed; but at last, a storm destroying their enemies' ca-
noes, they famished or destroyed almost all the rest, and
renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation,
and still lived upon the island.

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in
some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I
may perhaps give a farther account of hereafter.'.m\.v.THE PLAGUE YEAR'1, among the rest of my neighbours, heard, in ordi-

nary discourse, that the plague was returned again
in Holland; for it had been very violent there, and par-
ticularly at Amsterdam and Rotterdam, in the year 1663,
whither, they say, it was brought, some said from Italy,
others from the Levant, among some goods, which were
brought home by their Turkey fleet; others said it was
brought from Candia; others from Cyprus. It mattered
not from whence it came; but all agreed it was come into
Holland again.

We had no such thing as printed newspapers in those
days to spread rumours and reports of things, and to im-
prove them by the invention of men, as I have lived to '
see practised since. But such things as those were gath-
ered from the letters of merchants and others who cor-
responded abroad, and from them was handed about by
word of mouth only; so that things did not spread in-
stantly over the whole nation, as they do now. But it
seems that the Government had a true account of it, and
several councils were held about ways to prevent its com-
ing over; but all was kept very private. Hence it was that
this rumour died 0E again, and people began to forget it,
as a thing we were very little concerned in, and that we
hoped was not true, till the latter end of November or

I T w A 3 about the beginning of September 1664, thata lbsA JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR

the beginning of December 1664, when two men, said to
be Frenchmen, died of the plague in Long Acre, or rather
at the upper end of Drury Lane. The family they were in
endeavoured to conceal it as much as possible, but as it
had gotten some vent in the discourse of the neighbour- '
hood, the Secretaries of State got knowledge of it, and
concerning themselves to inquire about it, in order to be
certain of the truth, two physicians and a surgeon were
ordered to go to the house and make inspection. This they
did; and finding evident tokens of the sickness upon both
the bodies that were dead, they gave their opinions pub-
licly that they died of the plague. Whereupon it was
given in to the parish clerk, and he also retumed them to
the Hall; and it was printed in the weekly bill of mor-
tality in the usual manner, thus----

Plague, 2. Punishes infected, 1.

The people showed a great concern at this, and began
to be alarmed all over the town, and the more, because
in the last week in December 1664 another man died in
the same house, and of the same distemper. And then we
were easy again for about six weeks, when none having
died with any marks of infection, it was said the distem-
per was gone; but after that, I think it was about the 12th
of February, another died in another house, but in the
same parish and in the same manner.

This turned the people's eyes pretty much towards that
end of the town, and the weekly bills showing an in-
crease of burials in St. Giles's parish more than usual, it
began to be suspected that the plague was among the
people at that end of the town, and that many had died
of it, though they had taken care to keep it as much from
the knowledge of the public as possible. This possessed
the heads of the people very much, and few cared to go
through Drury Lane, or the other streets suspected, un-less they had extraordinary business, .that obliged them

to it.

This increase of the bills stood thus: the usual number
of burials in a week, in the parishes of St. Giles-in-the-
Fields and St. Andrew, Holbom, were from twelve to
seventeen or nineteen each, few more or less; but from
the time that the plague first began in St. Giles's parish,
it was observed that the ordinary burials increased in
number considerably. For example:--

P St. Giles's . . . 16
lrom December 27 to January 8 . St. An drew's. . . 17
u u a St. Giles's . . . 12
""8"" 1deg ' St. Andrew's. . . 25
(t " " St. Giles's - 0 I 18
January 1deg 17 ' St. Andrew's. . . 18
u u u St. GileS'S . . . 28
mm" 17 5" ' St. Andrew's. . . 16
u u u St. GHCS'S . . . 24
January 24 31 ' St. Andrew's. . . 16
u a St. Giles's . . . 21
u my; 32 .. "HEW;- - St. Andrew's. . . 23
y ' St. Giles's . . . 24

Whereof one of the plague.

The like increase of the bills was observed in the par-
ishes of St. Bride, adjoining on one side of Holbom par-
ish, and in the parish of St. James, Clerkenwell, adjoining
on the other side of Holbom; in bOth hich parishes the
usual numbers that died weekly were m four to six or
eight, whereas at that time they were increased as fol-
lows:--

St. Bride's 0

From December 20 to December 27 St. James's . 8
... St. Bride's 6
December 27 to January 3 . St. J es's . 9
" January 3 " " 1deg ' 3:. Eggs : : 1;
January 10 " " l7 . S: ?$:;?g I:
From January 17 to January 24 . . g: ?$:;'ss 1:
January 24 " " 31 g: 333:: I:

" January 81 " February 7 - ' 3.133;: I:
" February 7 " u 14 Siffigfs 1:

Besides this, it was observed with great uneasiness by
the people that the weekly bills in general increased very
much during these weeks, although it was at a time of
the year when usually the bills are very moderate.

The usual number of burials within the bills of mor-
tality for a week was from about 240 or thereabouts to
800. The last was esteemed a pretty high bill; but after
this we found the bills successively increasing, as fol-
lows:--

In-

Buricd. creased.
December the 20th to the 27th . . . . 291 . .
" 27th " 8rd January . . 849 58
January the 3rd " 10th " . . 894 45
" 10th " 17th " . . 415 21
" 17th " 24th " . . 474 ' 59

This last bill was really frightful, being a higher num-
ber than had been known to have been buried in one
week since the preceding visitation of 1656.

However, all this went off again, and the weather prov-
ing cold, and the frost, which began in December, still
continuing very severe, even till near the end of Feb-
ruary, attended with sharp though moderate winds, the
bills decreased again, and the city grew healthy, and
everybody began to look upon the anger as good as
over; only that still the burials in St. Giles's continued
high. From the beginning of April especially they stood
at twenty-five each week, till the week from the 18th to
the 25th, when there was buried in St. Giles's parish
thirty, whereof two of the plague and eight of the spotted-
fever, which was looked upon as the same thing; likewise
the number that died of the spotted-fever in the whole
increased, being eight the week before, and twelve the
week above named.

This alarmed us all again, and terrible apprehensions
were among the people, especially the weather being now
changed and growing warm, and the summer being at
hand. However, the next week there seemed to be some
hopes again; the bills were low, the number of the dead
in all was but 388, there was none of the plague, and but
four of the spotted-fever.

But the following week it returned again, and the dis-
temper was spread into two or three other parishes, viz.,
St. Andrew's, Holbom; St. Clement Danes; and, to the
great affliction of the city, one died within the walls, in
the parish of St. Mary Woolchurch, that is to say, in Bear-
binder Lane, near Stocks Market; in all there were nine
of the plague and six of the spotted-fever. It was, how-
ever, upon inquiry, found that this Frenchman .who died
in Bearbinder Lane was one who, having lived in Long
Acre, near the infected houses, had removed for fear of
the distemper, not knowing that he was already infected.

This was the beginning of May, yet the weather was
temperate, variable, and cool enough, and people had
still some hopes. That which encouraged them was, that
the city was healthy, the whole ninety-seven parishes
buried but fifty-four, and we began to hope, that as it
was chiefly among the people at that end of the town, it
might go no farther; and the rather, because the next
week, which was from the 9th of May to the 16th, there
died but three, of which not one within the whole city or
liberties; and St. Andrew's buried but fifteen, which was
very low. 'T is true St. Ciles's buried two-and-thirty, but
still, as there was but one of the plague, people began to
be easy. The whole bill also was very low, for the week
before the bill was but 347, and the week above men-
tioned but 343. We continued in these hopes for a few
days, but it was but for a few, for the people were no
more to be deceived thus; they searched the houses, and
found that the plague was really spread every way, and
that many died of it every day. So that now all our ex-
tenuations abated, and it was no more to be concealed;
nay, it quickly appeared that the infection had spread
itself beyond all hopes of abatement; that in the parish of
St. Giles it was gotten into several streets, and several
families lay all sick together; and, accordingly, in the
weekly bill for the next week the thing began to show
itself. There was indeed but fourteen set down of the
plague, but this was all knavery and collusion, for in St.
Giles's parish they buried forty in all, whereof it was cer-
tain most of them died of the plague, though they were
set down of other distempers; and though the number of
all the burials were not increased above thirty-two, and
the whole bill being but 385, yet there was fourteen of
the spotted-fever, as well as fourteen of the plague; and
we took it for granted upon the whole that there were
fifty died that week of the plague.

The next bill was from the 23rd of May to the 80th,
when the number of the plague was seventeen. But the
burials in St. Giles's were fifty-three--a frightful number!
--of whom they set down but nine of the plague; but on
an examination more strictly by the justices of the peace,
and at the Lord Mayor's request, it WAS found there were
twenty more who were really dead of the plague in that
parish, but had been set down of the spotted-fever or
other distempers, besides others concealed.

But those were trifling things to what followed im-
mediately after; for now the weather set in hot, and from
the first week in June the infection spread in a dreadful
manner, and the bills rose high; the articles of the fever,
spotted-fever, and teeth began to swell; for all that could
conceal their distempers did it, to prevent their neigh-
bours shunning and refusing to converse with them, and
also to prevent authority shutting up their houses, which
though it was not yet practised, yet was threatened, and
people were extremely terrified at the thoughts of it.

The second week in June, the parish of St. Giles, where
still the weight of the infection lay, buried 120, whereof,
though the bills said but sixty-eight of the plague, every-
body said there had been 100 at least, calculating it from
the usual number of funerals in that parish, as above.

Till this week the city continued free, there having
never any died, except that one Frenchman whom I men-
tioned before, within the whole ninety-seven parishes.
Now there died four within the city, one in Wood Street,
one in Fenchurch Street, and two in Crooked Lane.
Southwark was entirely free, having not one yet died on
that side of the water.

I lived without Aldgate, about midway between Ald-
gate Church and Whitechapel Bars, on the left hand or
north side of the street; and as the distemper had not
reached to that side of the city, our neighbourhood con-
tinued very easy. But at the other end of the town their
consternation was very great; and the richer sort of peo-
ple, especially the nobility and gentry from the west part
of'the city, thronged out of town with their families and
servants in an unusual manner; and this was more par-
ticularly seen in Whitechapel; that is to say, the Broad
Street where I lived; indeed, nothing was to be seen but
waggons and carts, with goods, women, servants, chil-
dren, &c.; coaches filled with people of the better sort,
and horsemen attending them, and all hurrying away;
then empty wagons and carts appeared, and spare horses
with servants, who, it was apparent, were returning or
sent from the countries to fetch more people; besides in-
numerable numbers of men on horseback, some alone,
others with servants, and, generally speaking, all loaded
with baggage and fitted out for travelling, as any one
might perceive by their appearance.

This was a very terrible and melancholy thing to see,
and as it was a sight which I could not but look on from
morning to night, for indeed there was nothing else of
moment to be seen, it filled me with very serious thoughts
of the misery that was coming upon the city, and the un-
happy condition of those that would be left in it.

This hurry of the people was such .for some weeks that
there was no getting at the Lord Mayor's door without
exceeding difficulty; there was such pressing and crowd-
ing there to get passes and certificates of health for such
as travelled abroad, for without these there was no being
admitted to pass through the towns upon the road, or to
lodge in any inn. Now, as there had none died in the
city for all this time, my Lord Mayor gave certificates of
health without any difficulty to all those who lived in
the ninety-seven parishes, and to those within the liber-
ties too for a while.

This hurry, I say, continued some weeks, that is to say,
all the month of May and June, and the more because it
was rumoured that an order of the Government was to be
issued out to place turnpikes and barriers on the road to
prevent people travelling, and that the towns on the road '
would not suffer people from London to pass for fear of
bringing the infection along with them, though neither of
these rumours had any foundafion but in the imagina-
tion, especially at first.

I now began to consider seriously with myself concern-
ing my own case, and how I should dispose of myself; that
is to say, whether I should resolve to stay in London or
shut up my house and flee, as many of my neighbours
did. I have set this particular down so fully, because I
know not but it may be of moment to those who come
after me, if they come to be brought to the same distress,
and to the same manner of making their choice; and
therefore I desire this account may pass with them rather
for a direction to themselves to act by than a history of
my actings, seeing it may not be of one farthing value to
them to note what became of me.

I had two important things before me: the one was
the carrying on my business and shop, which was con-
siderable, and in which was embarked all my effects in
the world; and the other was the preservation of my life
in so dismal a calamity as I saw apparently was coming
upon the whole city, and which, however great it was,
my fears perhaps, as well as other people's, represented
to be much greater than it could be.

The first consideration was of great moment to me; my
trade was a sadler, and as my dealings were chiefly not
by a shop or chance trade, but among the merchants
trading to the English colonies in America, so my effects
lay very much in the hands of such. I was a single man,
't is true, but I had a family of servants whom I kept at
my business; had a house, shop, and warehouses filled
with' goods; and, in short, to leave them all as things in
such a case must be left, that is to say, without any over-
seer or person fit to be trusted with them, had been to
haiard the loss not only of my trade, but of my goods,
and indeed of all I had in the world.
I had an elder brother at the same time in London, and
not many years before come over from Portugal, and ad-
vising with him, his answer was in three words, the same
that was given in another case quite different, viz., "Mas-
ter, save thyself." In a word, he was for my retiring into
the country, as he resolved to do himself with his family;
telling me, what he had, it seems, heard abroad, that the
best preparation for the plague was to run away from it.
As to my argument of losing my trade, my goods, or
debts, he quite confuted me. He told me the same thing
which I argued for my staying, viz., that I would trust
God with my safety and health, was the strongest re-
pulse to my pretensions of losing my trade and my goods;
"for," says he, "is it not as reasonable that you should
trust God with the chance or risk of losing your trade, as
that you should stay in so eminent a point of danger, and
trust Him with your life?"

I could not argue that I was in any strait as to a place
where to go, having several friends and relations in
Northamptonshire, whence our family first came from;
and particularly, I had an only sister in Lincolnshire, very
willing to receive and entertain me.

My brother, who had already sent his wife and two
children into Bedfordshire, and resolved to follow them,
pressed my going very earnestly; and I had once resolved
to comply with his desires, but at that time could get no
horse; for though it is true all the people did not go out
of the city of London, yet I may venture to say, that in a
manner all the horses did; for there was hardly a horse to
be bought or hired in the whole city for some weeks.
Once I resolved to travel on foot with one servant, and,
as many did, lie at no inn, but carry a soldier's tent with
us, and so lie in the fields, the weather 'being very warm,
and no danger from taking cold. I say, as many did, be-
cause several did so at last, especially those who had
been in the armies in the war which had not been many
years past; and I must needs say that, speaking of second
causes, had most of the people that travelled done so, the
plague had not been carried into so many country towns
and houses as it was, to the great damage, and indeed to
the ruin, of abundance of people.

But then my servant, whom I had intended to take
down with me, deceived me; and being frighted at the
increase of the distemper, and not knowing when I should
go, he took other measures, and left me, so I was put off
for that time; and, one way or other, I always found that
to appoint to go away was always crossed by some acci-
dent or other, so as to disappoint and put it off again; and
this brings in a story which otherwise might be thought
a needless digression, viz., about these disappointments
being from Heaven.

I mention this story also as the best method I can ad-
vise any person to take in such a case, especially if he be
one that makes conscience of his duty, and would be
directed what to do in it, namely, that he should keep his
eye upon the particular providences which occur at that
time, and look upon them complexly, as they regard one
another, and as all together regard the question before
him, and then, I think, he may safely take them for inti-
mations from Heaven of what is his unquestioned duty
to do in such a case; I mean as to going away from or
staying in the place where we dwell, when visited with an
infectious distemper. '

It came very warmly into my mind one morning, as I
was musing on this particular thing, that as nothing at-
tended us without the direction or permission of Divine
Power, so these disappointments must have something in
them extraordinary; and I ought to consider whether it
did not evidently point out, or intimate to me, that it was

the will of Heaven I should not go. It immediately fol-
lowed in my thoughts, that if it really was from God that
I should stay, He was able effectually to preserve me in
the midst of all the death and danger that would sur-
round me; and that if I attempted to secure myself by
fleeing from my habitation, and acted contrary to these
intimations, which I believed to be Divine, it was a kind
of flying from God, and that He could cause His justice to
overtake me when and where He thought fit.

These thoughts quite turned my resolutions again, and
when I came to discourse with my brother again, I told
him that I inclined to stay and take my lot in that station
in which God had placed me, and that it seemed to be
made more especially my duty, on the account of what I
have said.

My brother, though a very religious man himself,
laughed at all I had suggested about its being an inti-
mation from Heaven, and told me several stories of such
foolhardy people, as he called them, as I was; that I
ought indeed to submit to it as a work of Heaven if I had
been any way disabled by distempers or diseases, and
that then not being able to go, I ought to acquiesce in
the direction of Him, who, having been my Maker, had
an undisputed right of sovereignty in disposing of me,
and that then there had been no difficulty to determine
which was the call of His providence and which was not;
but that I should take it as an intimation from Heaven
that I should not go out of town, only because I could
not hire a horse to go, or my fellow was run away that
was to attend me, was ridiculous, since at the same time
I had my health and limbs, and other servants, and might
with ease travel a day or two on foot, and having a good
certificate of being in perfect health, might either hire a
horse or take post on the road, as I thought fit.

Then he proceeded to tell me of the mischievous conse-
quences which attended the presumption of the Turks
and Mahometans in Asia and in other places where he
had been (for my brother, being a merchant, was a few
years before, as I have already observed, returned from
abroad, coming last from Lisbon), and how, presuming
upon their professed predestinating notions, and of every
man's end being predetermined and unalterably before-
hand decreed, they would go unconcerned into infected
places and converse with infected persons, by which
means they died at the rate of ten or fifteen thousand a
week, whereas the Europeans or Christian merchants,
who kept themselves retired and reserved, generally
escaped the contagion.

Upon these arguments my brother changed my resolu-
tions again, and I began to resolve to go, and accord-
ingly made all things ready; for, in short, the infection
increased round me, and the bills were risen to almost
seven hundred a week, and my brother told me he would
venture to stay no lOnger. I desired him to let me con-
sider of it but till the next day, and I would resolve; and
as I had already prepared everything as well as I could
as to my business, and whom to entrust my affairs with,
I had little to do but to resolve.

I went home that evening greatly oppressed in my
mind, irresolute, and not knowing what to do. I had set
the evening wholly apart to consider seriously about it,
and was all alone; for already people had, as it were by a
general consent, taken up the custom of not going out of
doors after sunset; the reasons I shall have occasion to
say more of by-and-by.

In the retirement of this evening I endeavoured to re-
solve, first, what was my duty to do, and I stated the
arguments with which my brother had pressed me to go
into the country, and I set against them the strong im-
pressions which I had on my mind for staying; the visible
call I seemed to have from the particular circumstance of
my calling, and the care due from me for the preserva-
tion of my effects, which were, as I might say, my estate;
also the intimations which I thought I had from Heaven,
that to me signified a kind of direction to venture; and it
occurred to me, that if I had what I might call a direction
to stay, I ought to suppose it contained a promise of
being preserved if I obeyed.

This lay close to me, and my mind seemed more and
more encouraged to stay than ever, and supported with
a secret satisfaction that I should be kept. Add to this,
that, tuming over the Bible which lay before me, and
while my thoughts were more than ordinarily serious
upon the question, I cried out, 'Well, I know not what to
do; Lord, direct me!" and the like; and at that juncture I
happened to stop turning over the book at the 915t Psalm,
and casting my eye on the second verse, I read on to the
seventh verse exclusive, and after that included the tenth,
as follows: "I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and
my fortress: my God, in Him will I trust. Surely He shall
deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the
noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with His feathers,
and under His wings shalt thou trust: His truth shall be
thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the
terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day; nor
for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the
destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall
fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but
it shall not come nigh thee. Only with thine eyes shalt
thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. Because
thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the
most High, thy habitation; there shall no evil befall thee,
neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling," &c.

I scarce need tell the reader that from that moment
I resolved that I would stay in the town, and casting
myself entirely upon the goodness and protection of the
Almighty, would not seek any other shelter whatever;
and that, as my times were in His hands, He was as able
to keep me in a time of the infection as in a time of
health; and if He did not think fit to deliver me, still I
was in His hands, and it was meet He should do with me
as should seem good to Him.

With this resolution I went to bed; and I was further
confirmed in it the next day by the woman being taken
ill with whom I had intended to entrust my house and all
my affairs. But I had a further obligation laid on me on
the same side, for the next day I found myself very much
out of order also, so that if I would have gone away, I
could not; and I continued ill three or four days, and this
entirely determined my stay; so I took my leave of my
brother, who went away to Dorking, in Surrey, and after-
wards fetched a round farther into Buckinghamshire or
Bedfordshire, to a retreat he had found out there for his
family.

It was a very ill time to be sick in, for if any one come
plained, it was immediately said he had the plague; and
though I had indeed no symptoms of that distemper, yet
being very ill, both in my head and in my stomach, I was
not without apprehension that I really was infected; but
in about three days I grew better; the third night I rested
well, sweated a little, and was much refreshed. The ap.
prehensions of its being the infection went also quite
away with my illness, and I went about my business as
usual.

These things, however, put off all my thoughts of going
into the country; and my brother also being gone, I had
no more debate either with him or with myself on that
subject.

It was now mid-July, and the plague, which had chiefly
raged at the other end of the town, and, as I said before,
in the parishes of St. Giles, St. Andrew, Holbom, and
towards Westminster, began to now come eastward to-
wards the part where I lived. It was to be observed, in-
deed, that it did not come straight on towards us; for the
city, that is to say, within the walls, was indifferently
healthy still; nor was it got then very much over the water
into Southwark; for though there died that week 1268 of
all distempers, whereof it might be supposed above 900
died of the plague, yet there was but twenty-eight in
the whole city, within the walls, and but nineteen in
Southwark, Lambeth parish included; whereas in the par-
ishes of St. Giles and St. Martin-in-the-Fields alone there
died 421.

But we perceived the infection kept chiefly in the out-
parishes, which being very populous, and fuller also of
poor, the distemper found more to prey upon than in
the city, as I shall observe afterwards. We perceived, I
say, the distemper to draw our way, viz., by the parishes
of Clerkenwcll, Cripplegate, Shoreditch, and Bishops--
gate; which last two parishes joining to Aldgate, White-
chapel, and Stepney, the infection came at length to
spread its utmost rage and violence in those parts, even
when it abated at the western parishes where it began.

It was very strange to observe that in this particular
week, from the 4th to the 11th of July, when, as I have
observed, there died near 400 of the plague in the two
parishes of St. Martin and St. Ciles-in-the-Fields only,
there died in the parish of Aldgate but four, in the parish
of Whitechapel three, in the parish of Stepney but one.

Likewise in the next week, from the 11th of July to
the 18th, when the week's bill was 1761, yet there died no
more of the plague, on the whole Southwark side of the
water, than sixteen.

But this face of things soon changed, and it began to
thicken in Cripplegate parish especially, and in Clerken-
well; so that by the second week in August, Cripplegate
parish alone buried 886, and Clerkenwell 155. Of the
first, 850 might well be reckoned to die of the plague;
and of the last, the bill itself said 145 were of the plague.

During the month of July, and while, as I have ob-
served, our part of the town seemed to be spared in com-
parison of the west part, I went ordinarily about the
streets, as my business required, and particularly went
generally once in a day, or in two days, into the city, to
my brother's house, which he had given me charge of,
and to see if it was safe; and having the key in my pocket,
I used to go into the house, and over most of the rooms,
to see that all was well; for though it be something won-
derful to tell, that any should have hearts so hardened in
the midst of such a calamity as to rob and steal, yet cer-
tain it is that all sorts of villainies, and even levities and
debaucheries, were then practised in the town as openly
as ever--I will not say quite as frequently, because the
numbers of people were many ways lessened.

But the city itself began now to be visited too, I mean
within the walls; but the number of people there were
indeed extremely lessened by so great a multitude hav-
ing been gone into the country; and even all this month
of July they continued to flee, thOugh not in such multi-
tudes as formerly. In August, indeed, they fled in such a
manner that I began to think there would be really none
but magistrates and servants left in the city.

As they fled now out of the city, so I should observe
that the Court removed early, viz., in the month of June,
and went to Oxford, where it pleased God to preserve
them; and the distemper did not, as I heard of, so much
as touch them, for which I cannot say that I ever saw
they showed any great token of thankfulness, and hardly
anything of reformation, though they did not want be-
ing told that their crying vices might, without breach of
charity, be said to have gone far in bringing that terrible
judgment upon the whole nation.

The face of London was now indeed strangely altered,
I mean the whole mass of buildings, city, liberties, sub~
urbs, Westminster, Southwark, and altogether; for as to
the particular part called the city, or within the walls,
that was not yet much infected. But in the whole the face
of things, I say, was much altered; sorrow and sadness sat
upon every face; and though some parts were not yet
overwhelmed, yet all looked deeply concerned; and as we
saw it apparently coming on, so every one looked on him-
self and his family as in the utmost danger. Were it pos-
sible to represent those times exactly to those that did
not see them, and give the reader due ideas of the horror
that everywhere presented itself, it must make just im-
pressions upon their minds and fill them with surprise.
London might well be said to be all in tears; the mourners
did not go about the streets indeed, for nobody put on
black or made a formal dress of mourning for their near-
est friends; but the voice of mourning was truly heard in
the streets. The shrieks of women and children at the
windows and doors of their houses, where their dearest
relations were perhaps dying, or just dead, were so fre-
quent to be heard as we passed the streets, that it was
enough to pierce the stoutest heart in the world to hear
them. Tears and lamentations were seen almost in every
house, especially in the first part of the visitation; for
towards the latter end men's hearts were hardened, and
death was so always before their eyes, that they did not
so much concern themselves for the loss of their friends,
expecting that themselves should be summoned the next
hour; '

Business led me out sometimes to the other end of the
town, even when the sickness was chiefly there; and as
the thing was new to me, as well as to everybody else, it
was a most surprising thing to see those streets which
were usually so thronged now grown desolate, and so
few people to be seen in them, that if I had been a stran-
ger and at a loss for my way, I might sometimes have
gone the length of a whole street, I mean of the by-
streets, and seen nobody to direct me except watchmen
set at the doors of such houses as were shut up, of which
I shall speak presently.

One day, being at that part of the town on some special
business, curiosity led me to observe things more than
usually, and indeed I walked a great way where I had
no business. I went up Holborn, and there the street was
full of people, but they walked in the middle of the great
street, neither on one side or other, because, as I sup-
pose, they would not mingle with anybody that came out
of houses, Or meet with smells and scents from houses
that might be infected.

The Inns of Court were all shut up; nor were very
many of the lawyers in the Temple, or Lincoln's Inn, or
Gray's Inn, to be seen there. Everybody was at peace;
there was no occasion for lawyers; besides, it being in the
time of the vacation too, they were generally gone into
the country. Whole rows of houses in some places were
shut close up, the inhabitants all fled, and only a watch-
man or two left.

When I speak of rows of houses being shut up, I do not
mean shut up by the magistrates, but that great numbers
of persons followed the Court, by the necessity of their
employments and other dependences; and as others re-
tired, really frighted with the distemper, it was a mere
desolating of some of the streets. But the fright was not
yet near so great in the city, abstractly so called, and
particularly because, though they were at first in a most
inexpressible consternation, yet as I have observed that
the distemper intermitted often at first, so they were, as
it were, alarmed and unalarmed again, and this several
times, till it began to be familiar to them; and that even
when it appeared violent, yet seeing it did not presently
spread into the city, or the east and south parts, the peo-
ple began to take courage, and to be, as I may say, a
little hardened. It is true a vast many people fled, as I
have observed, yet they were chiefly from the west end
of the town, and from that we call the heart of the city,
that is to say, among the wealthiest of the people, and
such people as were unencumbered with trades and busi-
ness. But of the rest, the generality stayed, and seemed to
abide the worst; so that in the place we call the Liber- '
ties, and in the suburbs, in Southwark, and in the east
part, such as Wapping, Ratcliff, Stepney, Rotherhithe,
and the like, the people generally stayed, except here and
there a few wealthy families, who, as above, did not de-
pend upon their business.

It must not be forgot here that the city and suburbs
were prodigiously full of people at the time of this visita-
tion, I mean at the time that it began; for though I have
lived to see a further increase, and mighty throngs of peo-
ple settling in London more than ever, yet we had always
a notion that the numbers of people which, the wars be-
ing over, the armies disbanded, and the royal family and
the monarchy being restored, had flocked to London to
settle in business, or to depend upon and attend the
Court for rewards of services, preferments, and the like,
was such that the town was computed to have in it above
a hundred thousand people more than ever it held be-
fore; nay, some took upon them to say it had twice as
many, because all the ruined families of the royal party
flocked hither. All the old soldiers set up trades here, and
abundance of families settled here. Again, the Court
brought with them a great flux of pride and new fashions.
All people were grown gay and luxurious, and the joy of
the Restoration had brought a vast many families to
London.

I often thought that as Jerusalem was besieged by the
Romans when the Jews were assembled together to cele--
brate the Passover, by which means an incredible num-
ber of people were surprised there who would otherwise
have been in other countries; so the plague entered
London when an incredible increase of people had hap-
pened occasionally, by the particular circumstances above
named. As this conflux of the people to a youthful and
gay Court made a great trade in the city, especially in '
everything that belonged to fashion and finery, so it drew
by consequence a great number of workmen, manufac-
turers, and the like, being mostly poor people who de-
pended upon their labour. And I remember in par-
ticular, that in a representation to my Lord Mayor of the
condition of the poor, it was estimated that there were
no less than an hundred thousand riband-weavers in and
about the city, the chiefest number of whom lived then
in the parishes of Shoreditch, Stepney, Whitechapel, and
Bishopsgate, that, namely, about Spitalfields; that is to
say, as Spitalfields was then, for it was not so large as
now by one fifth part.

By this, however, the number of people in the whole
may be judged of; and, indeed, I often wondered that,
after the prodigious numbers of people that went away
at first, there was yet so great a multitude left as it ap-
peared there was.

But I must go back again to the beginning of this sur-
prising time. While the fears of the people were young,
they were increased strangely by several odd accidents,
which put altogether, it was really a wonder the whole
body of the people did not rise as one man and abandon
their dwellings, leaving the place as a space of ground
designed by Heaven for an Aceldama, doomed to be de-
stroyed from the face of the earth, and that all that would
be found in it would perish with it. I shall name but a
few of these things; but sure they were so many, and so
many wizards and cunning people propagating them,
that I have often wondered there was any (women espe-
cially) left behind.
. In the first place, a blazing star or comet appeared for
several months before the plague, as there did the year
after another, a little before the fire. The old women and
the phlegmatic hypochondriac part of the other sex,
whom I could almost call old women too, remarked
(especially afterward, though not till both those judg- '
ments were over) that those two comets passed directly
over the city, and that so very near the houses that it was
plain they imported something peculiar to the city alone;
that the comet before the pestilence was of a faint, dull,
languid colour, and its motion very heavy, solemn, and
slow; but that the comet before the fire was bright and
sparkling, or, as others said, flaming, and its motion swift
and furious; and that accordingly one foretold a heavy
judgment, slow but severe, terrible and frightful, as was
the plague; but the other foretold a stroke, sudden, swift,
and fiery as the conflagration. Nay, so particular some
people were, that as they looked upon that comet pre-
ceding the fire, they fancied that they not only saw it
pass swiftly and fiercely, and could perceive the motion
with their eye, but even they heard it; that it made a
rushing, mighty noise, fierce and tenible, though at a
distance, .and but just perceivable.

I saw both these stars, and, I must confess, had so
much of the common notion of such things in my head,
that I was apt to look upon them as the forerunners and
warnings of God's judgments; and especially when, after
the plague had followed the first, I yet saw another of
the like kind, I could not but say God had not yet suf-
ficiently scourged the city. '

But I could not at the same time carry these things to
the height that others did, knowing, too, that natural
causes are assigned by the astronomers for such things,
and that their motions and even their revolutions are
calculated, or pretended to be calculated, so that they
cannot be so perfectly called the forerunners or fore-
tellers, much less the procurers, of such events as pesti-
lence, war, fire, and the like.

But let my thoughts and the thoughts of the philoso-
phers be, 'or have been, what they will, these things had
a more than ordinary influence upon the minds of the
common people, and they had almost universal melan-
choly apprehensions of some dreadful calamity and
judgment coming upon the city; and this principally
from the sight of this comet, and the little alarm that was
given in December by two people dying at St. Giles's, as
above.

The apprehensions of the people were likewise
strangely increased by the error of the times, in which, I
think, the people, from what principle I cannot imagine,
were more addicted to prophecies and astrological con-
jurations, dreams, and old wives' tales than ever they were
before or since. Whether this unhappy temper was origi-
nally raised by the follies of some people who got money
by it, that is to say, by printing predictions and prognosti-
cations, I know not; but certain it is, books frighted them
terribly, such as Lilly's Almanack, Gadbury's Astrological
Predictions, Poor Robin's Almanack, and the like; also
several pretended'religious books, one entitled, "Come
out of her, my People, lest you be Partaker of her
Plagues;" another called, "Fair Warning;" another, "Brit-
ain's Remembrancer;" and many such, all, or most part
of which, foretold, directly or covertly, the ruin of the
city. Nay, some were so enthusiastically bold as to run
about the streets with their oral predictions, pretending
they were sent to preach to the city; and one in particu~
lar, who, like Jonah to Nineveh, cried in the streets, "Yet
forty days, and London shall be destroyed." I will not be
positive whether he said yet forty days or yet a few days.
Another ran about naked, except a pair of drawers about
his waist, crying day and night, like a man that Josephus
mentions, who cried, "Woe to Jerusalem!" a little before
the destruction of that city. So this poor naked creature
cried, "Oh, the great and the dreadful God!" and said no
more, but repeated those words continually, with a voice
and countenance full of horror, a swift pace; and nobody
could ever find him to stop or rest, or take any sustenance,
at least that ever I could hear of. I met this poor creature
several times in the streets, and would have spoke to him,
but he would not enter into speech with me or any one
else, but held on his dismal cries continually.

These things terrified the people to the last degree, and
especially when two or three times, as I have mentioned
already, they found one or two in the bills dead of the
plague at St. Giles's.

Next to these public things were the dreams of old
women, or, I should say, the interpretation of old women
upon other people's dreams; and these put abundance
of people even out of their wits. Some heard voices wam-
ing them to be gone, for that there would be such a
plague in London, so that the living would not be able
to bury the dead. Others saw apparitions in the air; and
I must be allowed to say of both, I hope without-breach
of charity, that they heard voices that never spake, and
saw sights that never appeared, but the imagination of
the pe0ple was really turned wayward and possessed.
And no wonder, if they who were poring continually at
the clouds saw shapes and figures, representations and ap-
pearances, which had nothing in them but air and vapour.
Here they told us they saw a flaming sword held in a
hand coming out of a cloud, with a point hanging directly
over the city; there they saw hearses and coffins in the air
carrying to be buried; and there again, heaps of dead
bodies lying unburied, and the like, just as the imagina-
tion of the poor terrified people furnished them with
matter to work upon.

"So hypochondriac fancies re resent
Shi s, armies, battles in the ament;
Ti steady eyes the exhalations solve,
And all to its first matter, cloud, resolve."

I could fill this acc0unt with the strange relations such
people gave every day of what they had seen; and every
one was so positive of their having seen what they pre-
tended to see, that there was no contradicting them with-
out breach of friendship, or being accounted rude and
unmannerly on the one hand, and profane and impenetra-
ble on the other. One time before the plague was begun ,1
(otherwise than as I have said in St. Giles's), I think it J
was in March, seeing a crowd of people in the street, I
joined with them to satisfy mycuriosity, and found them I:
all staring up into the air to see what a woman told them;
appeared plain to her, which was an angel clothed in;
white, with a fiery sword in his hand, waving it or'
brandishing it over his head. She described every part of'
the figure to the life, showed them the motion and the
form, and the poor people came into it so eagerly, and
with so much readiness; "Yes, I see it all plainly," says
one; "there's the sword as plain as can be." Another saw
the angel. One saw his very face, and cried out what a
glorious creature he was! One saw one thing, and one
another. I looked as earnestly as the rest, but perhaps not
with so much willingness to be imposed upon; and I said,
indeed, that I could see nothing but a white cloud, bright
on one side by the shining of the sun upon the other part.
The woman endeavoured to show it me, but could not
make me confess that I saw it, which, indeed, if I had I
must have lied. But the woman, turning upon me, looked
in my face, and fancied I laughed, in which her imagina-
tion deceived her too, for I really did not laugh, but was
very seriously reflecting how the poor people were terri-
fied by the force of their own imagination. However, she
turned from me, called me profane fellow, and a scoffer;
told me that it was a time of God's anger, and dreadful
judgments were approaching, and that despisers such as I
should wander and perish.

The people about her seemed disgusted as well as she;
and I found there was no persuading them that I did not
laugh at them, and that I should be rather mobbed by
them than be able to undeceive them. So I left them;
and this appearance passed for as real as the blazing
star itself.

Another enc0unter I had in the open day also; and
this was in going through a narrow passage from Petty
France into Bishopsgate Churchyard, by a row of alms-
houses. There are two churchyards to Bishopsgate church
or parish; one we go over to pass from the place called
Petty France into Bishopsgate Sh'eet, coming out just by
the church door; the other is on the side of the narrow
passage where the alms--houses are on the left; and a
dwarf-wall with a palisado on it on the right hand, and
the city wall on the other side more to the right.

In this narrow passage stands a man looking through
between the palisadoes into the burying-place, and as
many people as the narrowness of the passage would ad-
mit to stop, without hindering the passage of others, and
he was talking mighty eagerly'to them, and pointing now
-'0 one place, then to another, and afirming that he saw
a ghost walking upon such a gravestone there. He_de-
scribed the shape, the posture, and the movement of it so
exactly that it was the greatest matter of amazement to
him in the world that everybody did not see it as well as
he. On a sudden he would cry, "There it is; now it comes
this way." Then, "'T is turned back;" till at length he
persuaded the people into so firm a belief of it, that one
fancied he saw it, and another fancied he saw it; and
thus he came every day making a strange hubbub, con-
sidering it was in so narrow a passage, till Bishopsgate
clock struck eleven, and then the ghost would seem to
start, and, as if he were called away, disappeared on a
sudden.

I looked earnestly every way, and at the very moment
that this man directed, but could not see the least ap-
pearance of anything; but so positive was this poor man,
that he gave the people the vapours in abundance, and
sent them away trembling and frighted, til] at length few
people that knew of it cared to go through that passage,
and hardly anybody by night on any account whatever.

This ghost, as the poor man afirmed, made signs to the
.houses, and to the ground, and to the people, plainly in-
timating, or else they so understanding it, that abundance
of the people should come to be buried in that church-
yard, as indeed happened; but that he saw such aspects I
must acknowledge I never believed, nor could I see any-
thing of it myself, though I looked most earnestly to see
it, if possible.

These things serve to show how far the people were '
really overcome with delusions; and as they had a notion
of the approach of a visitation, all their predictions ran
upon a most dreadful plague, which should lay the whole
city, andeven the kingdom, waste, and should destroy
almost all the nation, both man and beast.

To this, as I said before, the astrologers added stories
of the conjunctions of planets in a malignant manner and
with a mischievous influence, one of which conjunctions
was to happen, and did happen, in October, and the other
in November; and they filled the people's heads with pre-
dictions on these signs of the heavens, intimating that
those conjunctions foretold drought, famine, and pesti-
lence. In the two first of them, however, they were en-
tirely mistaken, for we had no droughty season, but in the
beginning of the year a hard frost, which lasted from
December almost to March, and after that moderate
weather, rather warm than hot, with refreshing winds,
and, in short, very seasonable weather, and also several '
very great rains.

Some endeavours were used to suppress the printing
of such books as terrified the people, and to frighten the
dispersers of them, some of whom were taken up; but
nothing was done in it, as I am informed, the Covemment
being unwilling to exasperate the people, who were, as
I may say, all out of their wits already.

Neither can I acquit those ministers that in their
sermons rather sank than lifted up the hearts of their
hearers. Many of them no doubt did it for the strengthen-
ing the resolution of the people, and especially for quick-
ening them to repentance, but it certainly answered not
their end, at least not in proportion to the injury it did
another way; and indeed, as God Himself through the
whole Scriptures rather draws to Him by invitations and
calls to tum to Him and live, than drives us by terror and
amazement, so I must confess I thought the ministers
should have done also, imitating our blessed Lord and
Master in this, that His whole Gospel is full of declara-
tions from heaven of God's mercy, and His readiness to
receive penitents and forgive them, complaining, "Ye will
not come unto Me that ye may have life," and that there--
fore His Gospel is called the Gospel of Peace and the '

Gospel of Grace.

1 But we had some' good men, and that of all persuasions
and opinions, whose discourses were full of terror, who '
spoke nothing but dismal things; and as they brought
the people together with a kind of horror, sent them away '
in tears, prophesying nothing but evil tidings, terrifying
the people with the apprehensions of being utterly de-
strayed, not guiding them, at least not enough, to cry to
heaven for mercy.

It was, indeed, a time of very unhappy breaches among
us in matters of religion. Innumerable sects and divisions,
and separate opinions prevailed among the people. The
Church of England was restored, indeed, with the restora-
tion of the monarchy, about four years before, but the
ministers and preachers of the Presbyterians and In-
dependents, and of all the other sorts of professions, had
begun to gather separate societies and erect altar against
altar, and all those had their meefings for worship apart,
as they have now, but not so many then, the Dissenters
being not thoroughly formed into a body as they are'
since; and those congregations, which were thus gathered
together were yet but few. And even those that were the
Government did not allow, but endeavoured to suppress
them and shut up their meetings.

But the visitation reconciled them again, at least for a
time, and many of the best and most valuable ministers
and preachers of the Dissenters were suffered to go into
the churches where the incumbents were fled away, as '
many were, not being able to stand it; and the people
flocked without distinction to hear them preach, not much '
inquiring who or what opinion they were of. But after
the sickness was over, that spirit of charity abated; and
every church being again supplied with their own minis-
ters, or others presented where the minister was dead,
things returned to their old channel again.

> One mischief always introduces another. These terrors
and apprehensions of the people led them into a thou-
sand weak, foolish, and wicked things, which they wanted
not a sort of people really wicked 'to encourage them to,
and this was running about to fortune-tellers, cunning-
men, and astrologers to know their fortune, or, as it is
vulgarly expressed, to have their fortunes told them, their
nativities calculated, and the like; and this folly presently
made the town swarm with a wicked generation of pre-
tenders to magic, to the black art, as they called it, and
I know not what; nay, to a thousand worse dealings with
the devil than they were really guilty of. And this trade
grew so open and so generally practised that it became
common to have signs and inscriptions set up at doors:
"Here lives a fortune-teller," "Here lives an astrologer,"
"Here you may have your nativity calculated," and the
like; and Friar Bacon's brazen-head, which was the usual
sign of these people's dwellings, was to be seen almost in
every street, or else the sign of Mother Shipton, or of
Merlin's head, and the like.

With what blind, absurd, and ridiculous stuff these
oracles of the devil pleased and satisfied the people I
really know not, but certain it is that innumerable at-
tendants crowded about their doors every day. And if
but a grave fellow in a velvet jacket, a band, and a black
cloak, which was the habit those quack-conjurers gen-
erally went in, was but seen in the streets the people
would follow them in crowds, and ask them questions
as they went along.

I need not mention what a horrid delusion this was,
or what it tended to; but there was no remedy for it till
the plague itself put an end to it all, and, I suppose,
cleared the town of most of those calculators themselves.
One mischief was, that if the poor people asked these
mock astrologers whether there would be a plague or no,
they all agreed in general to answer "Yes," for that kept
up their trade. And had the people not been kept in a

fright about that, the wizards would presently have been .

rendered useless, and their craft had been at an end. But
they always talked to themof such-and-such influences of
the stars, of the conjunctions of such-and-such planets,
which must necessarily bring sickness and distempers,

and consequently the plague. And some had the assurance

to tell them the plague was begun already, which was too
true, though they that said so knew nothing of the matter.
The ministers, to do them justice, and preachers of most
sorts that were serious and understanding persons, thun-
dered against these and other wicked practices, and ex-
posed the folly as well as the wickedness of them to-

gether, and the most sober and judicious people despised .

and abhorred them. But it was impossible to make any
impression upon the middling people and the working
labouring poor. Their fears were predominantover all
their passions, and they threw away their money in a most
distracted manner upon those whimsies. Maid-servants
especially, and men-servants, were the chief of their
customers, and their question generally was, after the\
first demand of "Will there be a plague?" I say, the next
question was, "Oh, sirl for the Lord's sake, what will be-
come of me? Will my mistress keep me, or will she turn
me off? Will she stay here, or will she go into the coun--
try? And if she goes into the county, will she take me
with her, or leave me here to be starved and undone?"
And the like of men-servants.

The truth is, the case of poor servants was very dismal,
as I shall have occasion to mention again by--and-by,
for it was apparent a prodigious number of them would
be turned away, and it was so. And of them abundance
perished, and particularly of those that these false proph-
ets had flattered with hopes that they should be continued
in their services, and carried with their masters and
mistresses into the country; and had not public charity
provided for these poor creatures, whose number was ex-
ceeding great, and in all cases of this nature must be so,
they would have been- in the worst condition of any peo-
ple in the city.

These things agitated the minds of the common people
for many months, while the first apprehensions were upon
them, and while the plague was not, as I may say, yet
broken out. But I must also not forget that the more
serious part of the inhabitants behaved after another
manner. The Government encouraged their devotion, and
appointed public prayers and days of fasting and humilia-
tion, to make public confession of sin and implore the
mercy of God to avert the dreadful judgment which hung
over their heads; and it is not to be expressed with what
alacrity the people of all persuasions embraced the oc-
casion; how they flocked to the churches and meetings,
and they were all so thronged that there was often no
coming near, no, not to the very doors of the largest
churches. Also there were daily prayers appointed mom-
ing and evening at several churches, and days of private
praying at other places; at all which the people attended,
I say, with an uncommon devotion. Several private fami-
lies also, as well as one opinion as of another, kept family
fasts, to which they admitted their near relations only.
So that, in a word, those people who were really serious
and religious applied themselves in a truly Christian
manner to the proper work of repentance and humilia-
tion, as a Christian people ought to do.

Again, the public showed that they would hear their
share in these things; the ve Court, which was then gay
and luxurious, put on a face of Just concern for the public
danger. All the plays and interludes which, after the man-
ner of the French Court, had been set up, and began to
increase among us, were forbid to act; the gaming-tables,
public dancing-rooms, and music-houses, which multi-
plied and began to debauch the manners of the people,
were shut up and suppressed; and the jack-puddings,
merry-andrews, puppet-shows, rope-dancers, and such-
like doings, which had bewitched the poor common peo-
ple, shut up their shops, finding indeed no trade; for the
minds of the people were agitated with other things, and
a kind of sadness and horror at these things sat upon the
countenances even of the common people. Death was
before their eyes, and everybody began to think of their
graves, not of mirth and diversions.

But even those wholesome reflections, which, rightly
managed, would have most happily led the people to
fall upon their knees, make confession of their sins, and
look up to their merciful Saviour for pardon, imploring
His compassion on them in such a time of their distress,
by which we might have been as a second Nineveh, had
a quite contrary extreme in the common people, who,
ignorant and stupid in their reflections, as they were
brutishly wicked and thoughtless before, were now led
by their fright to extremes of folly; and, as I have said
before that they ran to conjurers and witches, and all
sorts of deceivers, to know what should become of them
(who fed their fears, and kept them always alarmed and
awake on purpose to delude them and pick their pockets ) ,4 \_
so they were as mad upon their running after quacks and ',
mountebanks, and every practising old woman, for medi-
cines and remedies; storing themselves with such multi-
tudes of pills, potions, and preservatives, as they were
called, that they not only spent their money, but even
poisoned themselves beforehand, for fear of the poison /
of the infection, and prepared their bodies for the plague,

1:
.
\.

376 A JOURNAL or THE PLAGUE YEAR

instead of preserving them against it. On the other hand,
it is incredible, and scarce to be imagined, how the posts
of houses and corners of streets were plastered over with
doctors' bills and papers of ignorant fellows, quacking
and tampering in physio, and inviting the people to come
to them for remedies, which was generally set off with
such flourishes as these, viz.: "Infallible preventive pills
against the plague." "Never-failing preservatives against
the infection." "Sovereign cordials against the corruption

\ of the air." "Exact regulations for the conduct of the body

" (t

\in case of an infection. Anti-pestilential pills." "In-
comparable drink against the plague, never found out
before." "An universal remedy for the plague." "The only

true plague water." "The royal antidote against all kinds

of infection;" and such a number more that I cannot
reckon up; and if I could, would fill a book of themselves
to set them down. -

Others set up bills to summon people to their lodgings
for directions and advice in the case of infection. These

had specious titles also, such as these:

"An eminent High Dutch physician, newly come over from
Holland, where he resided during all the time of the
great plague last year in Amsterdam, and cured multi-

tudes of people that actually had the plague upon
them."

"An Italian gentlewoman just arrived from Na les, havin
a choice secret to prevent infection, which) she found
out by her cat experience, and did wonderful cures
with it in e late plague there, wherein there died
20,000 in one day."

"An ancient gentlewoman, having practised with great suc-
cess in the late lague in this city, anno 1636, gives her
advice only to e emale sex. To be spoke with," 810.

"An experienced physician, who has long studied the doc-
trine of antidotes against all sorts of poison and infec-
tion, has, after forty years' practice, arrived to such skill
as may, with God's blessing, direct persons how to pre-
vent their being touched by any contagious distemper
whatsoever. He directs the poor gratis."

I take notice of these by way of specimen. I could give .

you two or three dozen of the like and yet have abun-
dance left behind. 'T is sufficient from these to apprise
any one of the humour of those times, and how a set of
thieves and pickpockets not only robbed and cheated
the poor people of their money, but poisoned their bodies
with odious and fatal preparations; some with mercury,
and some with other things as bad, perfectly remote from
the thing pretended to, and rather hurtful than service-
able to the body in case an infection followed.

I cannot omit a subtilty of one of those quack operators,
with which he gulled the poor people to crowd about
him, but did nothing for them without money. He had,
it seems, added to his hills, which he gave about the
streets, this advertisement in capital letters, viz., "He
gives advice to the poor for nothing."

Abundance of poor people came to him accordingly,
to whom he made a great many fine speeches, examined
them of the state of their health and of the constitution
of their bodies, and told them many good things for them
to do, which were of no great moment. But the issue and
conclusion of all was, that he had a preparation which if
they took such a quantity of every morning, he would
pawn his life they should never have the plague; no,
though they lived in the house with people that were in-
fected. This made the people all resolve to have it; but
then the price of that was so much, I think 't was half-a-'
crown. "But, sir," says one poor woman, "I am a poor
alms-woman, and am kept by the parish, and your bills
say you give the poor your help for nothing." "Ay, good
woman," says the doctor, "so I do, as I published there.
I give my advice to the poor for nothing, but not my
physio." "Alas, sir!" says she, "that is a snare laid for the
poor, then; for you give them your advice for nothing;
that is to say, you advise them gratis, to buy your physio
for their money; so does every shopkeeper with his
wares." Here the woman began to give him ill words, and
stood at his door all that day, telling her tale to all the
people that came, till the doctor finding she turned away
his customers, was obliged to call her upstairs again, and
give her his box of physio for nothing, which perhaps, too,
was good for nothing when she had it.

But to return to the people, whose confusions fitted
them to be imposed upon by all sorts of pretenders and
by every mountebank. There is no doubt but these quack-
ing sort of fellows raised great gains out of the miserable
people, for we daily found the crowds that ran after
them were infinitely greater, and their doors were more
thronged than those of Dr. Brooks, Dr. Upton, Dr.
Hodges, Dr. Berwick, or any, though the most famous
men of the time. And I was told that some of them got five
pounds a day by their physio.

But there was still another madness beyond all this,
which may serve to give an idea of the distracted humour
of the poor people at that time, and this was their follow-
ing a worse sort of deceivers than any of these; for these
petty thieves only deluded them to pick their pockets and
get their money, in which their wickedness, whatever it
was, lay chiefly on the side of the deceivers deceiving, not
j' upon the deceived. But in this part I am going to mention
' it lay chiefly in the people deceived, or equally in both,
'1 and this was in wearing charms, philtres, exorcisms, amu-
lets, and I know not what preparations, to fortify the body
1.. with them against the plague; as if the plague was not

\the hand of God, but a kind of a possession of an evil
kwt, and that it was to be kept off with crossings, signs
A'IOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 379

of the zodiac, papers tied up with so many knots, and
certain words of figures written on them, as particularly
the word Abracadabra, formed in triangle or pyramid,
thus:--

ABRACADABRA
ABRACADABR Others had the Iesuits'
ABRACADAB mark in a cross:
ABRACADA I H
ABRACAD ' S.
ABRACA Others nothing but this
ABRAC mark, thus:
ABBA it
ABR
AB
A

I might spend a great deal of time in my exclamations
against the follies, and indeed the wickedness, of those
things, in a time of such danger, in a matter of such con-
sequences as this, of a national infection. But my memo-
randums of these things relate rather to take notice only
of the fact, and mention only that it was so. How the poor
people found the insufficiency of those things, and how
many of them were afterwards carried away in the dead-
carts and thrown into the common graves of every parish
with these hellish charms and trumpery hanging about
their necks, remains to be spoken of as we go along.

All this was the effect of the hurry the people were in,
after the first notion of the plague being at hand was
among them, and which may be said to be from about
Michaelmas 1664, but more particularly after the two men
died in St. Giles's, in the beginning of December; and
again, after another alarm in February. For when the
plague evidently spread itself, they soon began to see the
folly of trusting to those unperforming creatures who had
gulled them of their money; and then their fears Worked
another way, namely, to amazement and stupidity, not
knowing what course to take or what to do either to help
or relieve themselves. But they ran about from one neigh-
bour's house to another, and even in the streets, from one
door to another, with repeated cries of, "Lord, have mercy
upon us! What shall we do?"

Indeed, the poor people were to be pitied in one par-
ticular thing, in which they had little or no relief, and
which I desire to mention with a serious awe and reflec-
tion, which perhaps every one that reads this may not
relish, namely, that whereas death now began not, as we
may say, to hover over every one's head only, but to look
into their houses and chambers, and stare in their faces.
Though there might be some stupidity and dulness of
the mind, and there was so, a great deal, yet there was a
great deal of just alarm sounded into the very inmost
soul, if I may so say, of others. Many consciences were
awakened; many hard hearts melted into tears; many a
penitent confession was made of crimes long concealed.
It would wound the soul of any Christian to have heard
the dying groans of many a despairing creature, and none
durst come near to comfort them. Many a robbery, many
a murder, was then confessed aloud, and nobody sur-
viving to record the accounts of it. People might be heard,
even into the streets as we passed along, calling upon
God for mercy, through Jesus Christ, and saying, "I have
been a thief," "I have been an adulterer," "I have been a
murderer," and the like, and none durst stop to make the
least inquiry into such things or to administer comfort
to the poor creatures, that in the anguish both of soul
and body thus cried out. Some of the ministers did visit
the sick at first and for a little while, but it was not to be
done. It would have been present death to have gone into
some houses. The very buriers of the dead, who were the
hardenedest creatures in town, were sometimes beaten
back and so terrified that they durst not go into houses
where the whole families were swept away together, and
where the circumstances were more particularly horrible,
as some were; but this was, indeed, at the first heat of
the distemper.

Time inured them to it all, and they ventured every-
where afterwards without hesitation, as I shall have oc-
casion to mention at large hereafter.

I am supposing now the plague to be begun, as I have
said, and that the magistrates began to take the condition
of the people into their serious consideration. What they
did as to the regulation of the inhabitants and of infected
families I shall speak to by itself; but as to the affair of
health, it is proper to mention it here, that, having seen
the foolish humour of the people in running after quacks 1_
and mountebanks, wizards and fortune-tellers, which they \
did as above, even to madness, the Lord Mayor, a very
sober and religious gentleman, appointed physicians and
surgeons for relief of the poor--I mean the diseased poor
--and in particular ordered. the College of Physicians to
publish directions for cheap remedies for the poor, in all
the circumstances of the distemper. This, indeed, was
one of the most charitable and judicious things that coul
be done at that time, for this drove the people from haunt-
ing the doors of every disperser of bills, and from taking
down blindly, and without consideration, poison for
physic and death instead of life.

This direction of the physicians was done by a con-
sultation of the whole College, and as it was particularly
calculated for the use of the poor and for cheap medi-
cines, it was made public, so that everybody might see it,
and copies were given gratis to all that desired it. But as
it is public, and to be seen on all occasions, I need not
give the reader of this the trouble of it.

I shall not be supposed to lessen the authority or capac-

.v . rt.' r'r'xmu
ity of the physicians when I say that the violence of the
distemper, when it came to its extremity, was like the fire
the next year. The fire, which consumed what the plague
could not touch, defied all the application of remedies;
the fire-engines were broken, the buckets thrown away,
and the power of man was baffled and brought to an
end. So the plague defied all medicines; the very physi-
cians were seized with it, with their preservatives in their
m0uths; and men went about prescribing to others and
telling them what to do, till the tokens were upon them,
and they dropped down dead, destroyed by that very
enemy they directed others to oppose. This was the case
of several physicians, even some of them the most
eminent, and of several of the most skilful surgeons.
Abundance of quacks too died, who had the folly to
trust to their own medicines, which they must needs be
conscious to themselves were good for nothing, and who
rather ought, like other sorts of thieves, to have run
away, sensible of their guilt, from the justice that they
could not but expect should punish them as they knew
they had deserved.

Not that it is any derogation from the labour or applica-
tion of the physicians to say they fell in the common
calamity; nor is it so intended by me; it rather is to their
praise that they ventured their lives so far as even to
lose them in the service of mankind. They endeavoured
to do good, and to save the lives of others. But we were
not to expect that the physicians could stop God's judg-
ments, or prevent a distemper eminently armed from
heaven from executing the errand it was sent about.

\",Doubtless the physicians assisted many by their skill,
and by their prudence and applications, to the saving of
their lives and restoring their health. But it is not lessen-
ing their character or their skill, to say they could not
cure those that had the tokens upon them, or those who
were mortally infected before the physicians were sent
for, as was frequently the case.

It remains to mention now what public measures were
taken by the magistrates for the general safety, and to
prevent the spreading of the distemper, when it first
broke out. I shall have frequent occasion to speak of the
prudence of the magishates, their charity, their vigilance
for the poor, and for preserving good order, furnishing
provisions, and the like, when the plague was increased,
as it afterwards was. But I am now upon the order and
regulations they published for the government of in-
fected families.

I mentioned above shutting of houses up; and it is
needful to say something particularly to that, for this part
of the history of the plague is very melancholy, but the
most grievous story must be told.

About Iune the Lord Mayor of London and the Court
of Aldermen, as I have said, began more particularly to
concern themselves for the regulation of the city.

The Justices of Peace for Middlesex, by direction of
the Secretary of State, had begun to shut up houses in the
parishes of St. Giles-in-the-Fields, St. Martin, St. Clement
Danes, &c., and it was with good success; for in several
streets where the plague broke out, upon strict guarding
the houses that were infected, and taking care to bury
those that died immediately after they were known to be
dead, the plague ceased in those streets. It was also ob-
served that the plague decreased sooner in those parishes
after they had been visited to the full than it did in the
parishes of Bishopsgate, Shoreditch, Aldgate, White-
chapel, Stepney, and others, the early care taken in that
manner being a great means to the putting a check to it.

This shutting up of houses was a method first taken,
as I understand, in the plague which happened in 1603,

at the coming of King James the First to the crown; and

1
the power of shutting people up in their own houses was
granted by Act of Parliament, entitled, "An Act for the
charitable Relief and Ordering of Persons infected with
the Plague;" on which Act of Parliament the Lord Mayor
and aldermen of the city of London founded the order
they made at. this time, and which took place the lst of
July 1665, when the numbers infected within the city
were but few, the last bill for the ninety-two parishes
being but four; and some houses having been shut up in
the city, and some people being removed to the pest-
house beyond Bunhill Fields, in the way to. Islington,--I
say, by these means, when there died near one thousand
a week in the whole, the number in the city was but
twenty-eight, and the city was preserved more healthy
in proportion than any other place all the time of the
infection.

These orders of my Lord Mayor's were published, as I
have said, the latter end of June, and took place from the
lst of July, and were as, follows, viz.:--

ORDERS CONCEIVED AND PUBLISHED BY THE LORD MAYOR
AND ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF LONDON CONCERN-
INC THE INFECTION OF THE PLAGUE, 166 5.

"WHEREAS in the reign of our late sovereign King James, of
ha py memory, an Act was made for the charitable relief and
or ering of persons infected with the plague, whereby au-
thority was given to justices of the peace, mayors, bailiffs, and
other head-officers to appoint within their several limits ex-
aminers, searchers, watchmen, keepers, and buriers for the
persons and places infected, and to minister unto them oaths

or the erformance of their offices. And the same statute did
also au orise the giving of other directions, as unto them for
the present necessity should seem good in their discretions. It
is now, upon special consideration, thought very expedient
for preventing and avoidin of infection of sickness (if it shall
so please Almighty God) at these officers following be ap-
pointed, and these orders hereafter duly observed.Examiners to be appointed in every Parish.

"First, it is thought requisite, and so ordered, that in every
parish there be one, two, or more persons of good sort and
credit chosen and appointed by the alderman, his deputy, and
common council of eve ward, by the name of examiners, to
continue in that office 3e space of two months at least. And
if any fit person so appointed shall refuse to undertake the
same, the said parties so refusing to be committed to prison
until they shall conform themselves accordingly.

The Examiners' Oflice.

"That these examm' ers be sworn by the aldermen to impure
and learn from time to time what houses in every paris be
visited, and what persons be sick, and of what diseases, as
near as they can inform themselves; and upon doubt in that
case, to command restraint of access until it appear what the
disease shall prove. And if they find any person sick of the
infection, to give order to the constable that the house be shut
up; and if the constable shall be found remiss or negligent, to
give present notice thereof to the alderman of the ward.

Watchmen.

"That to every infected house there be a pointed two
watchmen, one for every day, and the other for e night; and
that these watchmen have a special care that no person go in
or out of such infected houses whereof they have the charge,
upon ain of severe punishment. And the said watchmen to
do suc further ofices as the sick house shall need and require;

and if the watchman be sent u on any business, to lock up the
house and take the ke with ' ; and the watchman by day

to attend until ten of e clock at night, and the watchman by
night until six in the morning.

Searchers.

"That there be a special care to appoint women searchers
in every parish, such as are of honest reputation, and of the
best sort as can be ot in this kind; and these to be sworn to
make due search an true report to the utmost of their knowl-
edge whether the persons whose bodies they are appointed
to search do die of the infection, or of what other diseases, as
near as they can. And that the physicians who shall be ap-
pointed for cure and prevention of the infection do call before
them the said searchers who are, or shall be, appointed for
the several parishes under their respective cares, to the end
they may consider whether they are fitly qualified for that
employment, and charge them from time to time as they shall
see cause, if they appear defective in their duties.

"That no searcher during this time of visitation be per-
mitted to use an public work or employment, or keep any
shop or stall, or be employed as a Iaundress, or in any other
common employment whatsoever.

Chimrgeons.

"For better assistance of the searchers, forasmuch as there
hath been heretofore great abuse in misreporting the disease,
to the further spreading of the infection, it is therefore or-
dered that there be chosen and ap ointed able and discreet
chirurgeons, besides those that do a eady belon to the pest-
house, amongst whom the ci and Liberties to e quartered
as the places lie most apt an convenient; and every of these
to have one quarter for his limit; and the said chirurgeons in
every of their limits to join with the searchers for the view of
the body, to the end there may be a true report made of the
disease.

"And further, that the said chirurgeons shall visit and search
such-like persons as shall either send for them or be named
and directed unto them by the examiners of every parish, and
inform themselves of the disease of the said parties.

"And forasmuch as the said chirurgeons are to be se ues-
tered from all other cures, and kept only to this disease 0 the
infection, it is ordered that every of the said chirurgeons shall
have twelve ence a body searched by them, to be aid out of
the goods 0 the party searched, if he be able, or o erwise by
the parish.

Nurse-keepers.

"If any nurse-keeper shall remove herself out of any in-
fected house before twenty-eight days after the decease of any
person dying of the infection, the house to which the said
nurse-keeper doth so remove herself shall be shut up until the
said twenty-eight days be expired."

ORDERS CONCERNING INFECTED HOUSES AND .
PERSONS SICK OF THE PLAGUE

Notice to be given of the Sickness.

"The master of every house, as soon as any one in his house
complaineth, either of blotch or purple, or swelling in any
part of his body, or falleth otherwise dangerously sick, with-
out apparent cause of some other disease, shall give knowl-
edge thereof to the examiner of health within two hours after
the said sign shall appear.

Sequestration of the Sick.

"As soon as any man shall be found by this examiner,
chirurgeon, or searcher to be sick of the plague, he shall the
same night be seguestered in the same house; and in case he
be so sequestere , then, though he afterwards die not, the
house wherein he sickened should be shut up- for a month,
after the use of the due preservatives taken by the rest.

Airing the Stufi.

"For sequestration of the goods and stufi of the infection,
their bedding and apparel and hangings of chambers must be
well aired with fire and such perfumes as are requisite within
the infected house before they be taken again to use. This to
be done by the appointment of the examiner.

Shutting up of the House. '

"If any person shall have visited any man known to be
infected of the plague, or entered willingly into any known
infected house, eing not allowed, the house wherein he in-

habiteth shall be shut up for certain days by the examiner's
direction.

None to be removed out of infected Houses, but, be.

"Item, that none be removed out of the house where he
falleth sick of the infection into any other house in the ci
(except it be to the pest-house or a tent, or unto some su
house which the owner of the said visited house holdeth in ::
his own hands and occupieth by his own servants); and so as -
security be given to the parish whither such remove is made, ;
that the attendance and charge about the said visited persons
shall be observed and charged in all the articularities before 3
expressed, without any cost of that parish to which any such '
remove shall happen to be made, and this remove to be done
by night. And it shall be lawful to any person that hath two
houses to remove either his sound or his infected people to
his s are house at his choice, so as, if he sent away first his
soun , he not after send thither the sick, nor again unto the
sick the sound; and that the same which he sendeth be for one .
week at the least shut u and secluded from company, for
fear of some infection at 516 first not appearing.

Burial of the Dead.

"That the burial of the dead by this visitation be at most
convenient hours, always either before sun-rising or after sun-
setting, with the privity of the church~wardens or constable,
and not otherwise; and that no neighbours nor friends he suf-
fered to accompany the corpse to church, or to enter the house
visited, upon pain of having his house shut up or be impris-
oned.

"And that no corpse dying of infection shall be buried, or
remain in any church in time of common prayer, sermon, or '
lecture. And that no children he suffered at time of burial of
any corpse in any church, churchyard, or buryin -place to
come near the corpse, coflin, or grave. And that all t e graves

~ shall be at least six feet deep.

"And further, all public assemblies at other burials are to
be forborne during t e continuance of this visitation.

No infected Stuff to be uttered.

"That no clothes, stuff, bedding, or arments be sufiered to
be carried or conveyed out of any infgected houses, and that
the criers and carriers abroad of bedding or old apparel to be
sold or pawned be utterly prohibited and restrained, and no
brokers of bedding or old a parel be permitted to make any
outward show, or hang forth on their stalls, shop-boards, or
windows, towards any street, lane, common way, or passage,
an old beddin or a arel to be sold, u n ain of imprison-
mdht. And if agy brgfier or other persolloshgll buy any bed-
ding, apparel, or other stuff out of any infected house within
two months after the infection hath been there, his house shall
be shut up as infected, and so shall continue shut up twenty
days at the least.

No Person to be conveyed out of any infected House.

"If any person visited do fortune by negligent looking unto,
or by any other means, to come or be conveyed from a place
infected to any other place, the parish from whence such p
hath come or been conveyed, upon notice thereof given, sh
at their charge cause the said party so visited and escaped to
be carried and brought back again b night, and the parties
in this case offending to be unishe at the direction of the
alderman of the ward, and e house of the receiver of such
visited person to be shut up for twenty days.

Every visited House to be marked.

"That every house visited be marked with a red cross of a
foot long in the middle of the door, evident to be seen, and
with these usual printed words, that is to say, 'Lord, have
mercy upon us,' to be set close over the same cross, there to
continue until lawful opening of the same house.

Every visited House to be watched.

'That the constables see every house shut up, and to be
attended with watchmen, which may keep them in, and min-
ister necessaries unto them at their own charges, if they be
able, or at the common char e, if they be unable; the shut-
ting up to be for the space 0 four weeks after all be whole.

"That precise order be taken that the searchers, chirurgeons,
keepers, and buriers are not to pass the streets without holding
a red rod or wand of three feet in length in their hands, open
and evident to be seen, and are not to go into any other house
than into their own, or into that whereunto they are directed
or sent for; but to forbear and abstain from compan , espe-
cially when they have been lately used in any such usiness '
or attendance. ' .Inmates.

"That where several inmates are in one and the same house,
and any person in that house happens to be infected, no other
person or family of such house shall be sufiered to remove

im or themselves without a certificate from the examiners of
health of that parish; or in default thereof, the house whither
he or they so remove shall be shut up as in case of visitation.

H ackney-coaches.

"That care be taken of hackney-coachmen, that they may
not (as some of them have been observed to do after carrying
of infected persons to the est-house and other places) be
admitted to common use til their coaches be well aired, and
have stood unemployed by the space of five or six days after
such service."

ORDERS FOR CLEANSING AND KEEPING OF THE STREETS
SWEET.

The Streets to be kept Clean.

"First, it is thought necessary, and so ordered, that every
householder do cause the street to be daily prepared before
his door, and so to keep it clean swept all the week long.

That Bakers take it from out the Houses.

"That the sweeping and filth of houses be daily carried
away by the rakers, and that the raker shall give notice of his
coming by the blowing of a horn, as hitherto hath been done.

Laystalls to be made far of from the City.

"That the laystalls be removed as far as may be out of the
city and common passa es, and that no nightman or other be
suffered to empty a vau t into any garden near about the city.

Care to be had of unwholesome Fish or Flesh, and of
musty Corn.

"That special care be taken that no stinking fish, or un-
wholesome flesh, or musty corn, or other corrupt fruits of what
sort soever, be sufiered to be sold about the city, or any part
of the same.

"That the brewers and ti pling-houses be looked unto for
musty and unwholesome casEs.

"That no ho 3, dogs, or cats, or tame igeons, or carries, he
suffered to be ept within any art of e city, or any swine
to be or stray in the streets or l'anes, but that such swine be
impounded by the beadle or any other officer, and the owner
punished accordin to Act of Common Council, and that the
dogs be killed by e dog-killers appointed for that purpose."

ORDERS CONCERNING LOOSE PERSONS AND IDLE
ASSEMBLIES.

Beggars.

"Forasmuch as nothing is more complained of than the mul-
titude of rogues and wandering beggars that swarm in every
place about the city, being a great cause of the spreading of
the infection, and will not be avoided, notwithstanding any
orders that have been given to the contrary: It is therefore
now ordered, that such constables, and others whom this mat-
ter may any way concern, take special care that no wandering
beggars be sufiered in the streets of this city in any fashion or
manner whatsoever, upon the penalty provided by the law, to
be duly and severely executed upon them.

Plays.

"That all plays, bear-baitings, games, singing of ballads,
buckler-play, or such-like causes of assemblies of people be
utterly prohibited, and the parties oifending severely punished
by every alderman in his ward.

Feasting prohibited.

"That all public feastings, and particularly b the com-
panies of this city, and dimers at taverns, ale- ouses, and
other places of common entertainment, be forbome till fur-
ther order and allowance; and that the money thereby spared
be preserved and employed for the benefit and relief of the
poor visited with the infection.Tippling-houses.

"That disorderly fippling in taverns, ale-houses, coEee-
houses, and cellars be severely looked unto, as the common
sin of this time and the greatest occasion of dis ersing the
plague. And that no company or erson be ered to re-
main or come into any tavern, ale- ouse, or coffee-house to
drink after nine of the clock in the evening, accordin to the
ancient law and custom of this city, upon the pen ties or-
dained in that behalf.

"And for the better execution of these orders, and such
other rules and directions as, upon further consideration, shall
be found needful: It is ordered and enjoined that the alder-
men, deputies, and common councilmen shall meet together
weekly, once, twice, thrice or oftener (as cause shall require),
at some one general place accustomed in their respective
wards (being clear from infection of the plague), to consult
how the said orders may be duly put in execution; not intend-
ing that any dwelling in or near places infected shall come to
the said meeting while their comin may be doubtful. And
the said aldermen, and deputies, an common councilmen in
their several wards may put in execution any other good or-
ders that by them at their said meetings shall be conceived
and devised for preservation of his Majesty's subjects from
the infection.

"Sir JOHN LAWRENCE, Lord Mayor.
Sir GEORGE WATERMAN, Sherifis."
Sir CHARLES Don,

I need not say that these orders extended only to such
places as were within the Lord Mayor's jurisdiction, so
it is requisite to observe that the justices of Peace within
those parishes and places as were called the Hamlets and
out-parts took the same method. As I' remember, the
orders for shutting up of houses did not take place so
soon on our side, because, as I said before, the plague did
not reach to these eastern parts of the town at least, nor
begin to be very violent, till the beginning of August. For
example, the whole bill from the 11th to the 18th of July.. '45:. . A") "7.6 -.~

   

A-ioUnNAL OF THE '1'LAGUE YEAR '393'.
was 1761, yet there died but 71 of the plague in all those '

parishes we call the Tower Hamlets, and they were as
follows:--- '

' The next week And to the lot

was thus: oi Au. thus:
Aldgate . . . . . . 14 34 65
Stepney. . . . . . . 83 68 76
Whitechapel . . . . . 21 48 79
St. Catherine, Tower . . . 2 4 4
Trinity, Minories . . . . 1 1 4
71 145 228

It was indeed coming on amain, for the burials that
same week were in the next adjoining parishes thus:--

The next. week

prodigionlly To the 1st 0!
increased. an: Aug. thus:
St. Leonard's, Shoreditch. . 64 . . 84 . . 110
St. Botolph's, Bishopsgate 65 . . 106 . . 116
St. Giles's, Cripplegate . 213 . . 421 . . 554
842 610 780

This shutting up of houses was at first counted a very
cruel and unchristian method, and the poor people so
confined m'ade bitter lamentations. Complaints of the
severity of it were also daily brought to my Lord Mayor,
of houses causelessly (and some maliciously) shut up. I
cannot say; but upon inquiry many that complained so
loudly were found in a condition to be continued; and
others again, inspection being made upon the sick per-
son, and the sickness not appearing infectious, or ifnn-
certain, yet on his being content to be carried to the
pest-house, were released. '

It is true that the locking up the doors of people's .
houses, and setting a watchman there night and day to
prevent their stirring out or any coming to them, when
perhaps the sound people in the family might have
escaped if they had been removed from the sick, looked
very hard and cruel; and many people perished in these
miserable confinements which, 't is reasonable to believe,
would not have been distempered if they had had liberty,
though the plague was in the house; at which the people
were very clamorous and uneasy at first, and several
violences were committed and injuries offered to the men
who were set to watch the houses so shut up; also several
people broke out by force in many places, as I shall ob-
serve by-and-by. But it was a public good that justified
the private mischief, and there was no obtaining the least
mitigation by any application to magistrates or govem-
ment at that time, at least not that I heard of. This put the
people upon all manner of stratagem in order, if possible,
to get out; and it would fill a little volume to set down the
arts used by the people of such houses to shut the eyes
of the watchmen who were employed, to deceive them,
and to escape or break out from them, in which frequent
scufiles and some mischief happened; of which by itself.

As I went along Houndsditch one morning about eight
o'clock there was a great noise. It is true, indeed, there
was not much crowd, because people were not very free
to gather together, or to stay long together when they
were there; nor did I stay long there. But the Outcry was
loud enough to prompt my curiosity, and I called to one
that looked out of a window, and asked what was the
matter.

A watchman, it seems, had been employed to keep
his post at the door of a house which was infected, or
said to be infected, and was shut up. He had been there
all night for two nights together, as he told his story, and
the day-watchman had been there one day, and was now
come to relieve him. All this while no noise had been
heard in the house, no light had been seen; they called
for nothing, sent him of no errands, which used to be the
chief business of the watchmen; neither had they given
him any disturbance, as he said, from the Monday after-
noon, when he heard great crying and screaming in the
house, which, as he supposed, was occasioned by some of
the family dying just at that time. It seems, the night be-
fore, the dead-cart, as it was called, had been stopped
there, and a servant-maid had been brought down to the
door dead, and the buriers or bearers, as they were called,
put her into the cart, wrapt only in a green rug, and
carried her away.

The watchman had knocked at the door, it seems, when
he heard that noise and crying, as above, and nobody
answered a great while; but at last one looked out and
said with an angry, quick tone, and yet a kind of crying
voice, or' a voice of one that was crying, "What d'ye want,
that ye make such a knocking?" He answered, "I am the
watchman! How do you do? What is the matter?" The
person answered, "What is that to you? Stop the dead-
cart." This, it seems, was about one o'clock. Soon after,
as the fellow said, he stopped the dead-cart, and then
knocked again, but nobody answered. He continued
knocking, and the bellman called out several times,
"Bring out your dead;" but nobody answered, till the man
that drove the cart, being called to other houses, would
stay no longer, and drove away.

The watchman knew not what to make of all this, so
he let them alone till the morning-man or day-watchman,
as they called him, came to relieve him. Giving him an
account of the particulars, they knocked at the door'a
great while, but nobody answered; and they observed
that the window or casement at which the person had
looked out who had answered before continued open,
being up two pairs of stairs.

Upon this the two men, to satisfy their curiosity, got a
long ladder, and one of them went up to the window and
looked into the room, where he saw a woman lying dead
upon the floor in a dismal manner, having no clothes on
but her shift. But though he called aloud, and putting in
his long staff, knocked hard on the floor, yet nobody
stirred or answered; neither could he hear any noise in
the house.

He came down again upon this, and acquainted his
fellow, who went up also; and finding it just so, they re-
solved to acquaint either the Lord Mayor or some other
magistrate of it, but did not offer to go in at the window.
The magistrate, it seems, upon the information of the
two men, ordered the house to be broke open, a constable
and other persons being appointed to be present, that
nothing might be plundered; and accordingly it was so
done, when nobody was found in the house but that
young woman, who having been infected and past re-
covery, the rest had left her to die by herself, and were
every one gone, having found some way to delude the
watchman, and to get open the door, or get out at some
back door, or over the tops of the houses, so that he knew
nothing of it; and as to those cries and shrieks which he
heard, it was supposed they were the passionate cries of
the family at the bitter parting, which, to be sure, it was
to them all, this being the sister to the mistress of the
family. The man of the house, his wife, several children,
and servants, being all gone and fled, whether sick or
sound, that I could never learn; nor, indeed, did I make
much inquiry after it.

Many such escapes were made out of infected houses,
as particularly when the watchman was sent of some er-
rand, for it was his business to go of any errand that
the family sent him of; that is to say, for necessaries, such
as food and physic; to fetch physicians, if they would
come, or surgeons, or nurses, or to order the dead-cart,
and the like; but with this condition, too, that when he
went he was to lock up the outer door of the house and
take the key away with him. To evade this, and cheat the
watchmen, people got two or three keys made to their
locks, or they found ways to unscrew the locks such as
were screwed on, and so take 05 the lock, being in the
inside of the house, and while they sent away the watch-
man to the market, to the bake-house, or for one trifle or
another, open the door and go out as often as they
pleased. But this being found out, the officers afterwards
had orders to padlock up the doors on the outside, and
place bolts on them as they thought fit.

At another house, as I was informed, in the street next
within Aldgate, a whole family was shut up and locked
in because the maid-servant was taken sick. The master
of the house had complained by his friends to the next
alderman and to the Lord Mayor, and had consented to
have the maid carried to the pest-house, but was refused;
so the door was marked with a red cross, a padlock on the
outside, as above, and a watchman set to keep the door,
according to public order.

After the master of the house found there was no
remedy, but that he, his wife, and his children were to
be locked up with this poor distempered servant, he
called to the watchman, and told him he must go then
and fetch a nurse for them to attend this poor girl, for
that it would be certain death to them all to oblige them
to nurse her; and told him plainly that if he would not
do this, the maid must perish either of the distemper or
be starved for want of food, for he was resolved none of
his family should go near her; and she lay in the garret
four storey high, where she could not cry out, or call to
anybody for help.

The watchman consented to that, and went and fetched
a nurse, as he was appointed, and brought her to them
the same evening. During this interval the master of the
house took his opportunity to break a large hole through
his shop into a bulk or stall, where formerly a cobbler had
sat, before or under his shop-window; but the tenant, as
may be supposed at such a dismal time as that, was dead
or removed, and so he had the key in his own keeping.
Having made his way into this stall, which he could not
have done if the man had been at the door, the noise he
was obliged to make being such as would have alarmed
the watchman; I say, having made his way into this stall,
he sat still till the watchman returned with the nurse, and
all the next day also. But the night following, having con-
trived to send the watchman on another trifling errand,
which, as I take it, was to an apothecary's for a plaister for
the maid, which he was to stay for the making up, or
some other such errand that might secure his staying
some time; in that time he conveyed himself and all his
family out of the house, and left the nurse and the watch-
man to bury the poor wench--that is, throw her into the
cart--and take care of the house.

I could give a great many such stories as these, divert-
ing enough, which in the long course of that dismal year
I met with--that is, heard of--and which are very certain
to be true, or very near the truth; that is to say, true in
the general, for no man could at such a time learn all the
particulars. There was likewise violence used with the
watchman, as was reported, in abundance of places; and
I believe that from the beginning of the visitation to the
end, there was not less than eighteen or twenty of them
killed, or so wounded as to be taken up for dead, which
was supposed to be done by the people in the infected
houses which were shut up, and where they attempted to
come out, and were opposed.

Nor, indeed, could less be expected, for here were so
many prisons in the town as there were houses shut up;
and as the people shut up or imprisoned so were guilty
of no crime, only shut up because miserable, it was really
the more intolerable to them.

It had also this difference, that every prison, as we may
call it, had but one jailer, and as he had the whole house
to guard, and that many houses were so situated as that
they had several ways out, some more, some less, and
some into several streets, it was impossible for one man
so to guard all the passages as to prevent the escape of
people made desperate by the fright of their circum-
stances, by the resentment of their usage, or by the raging
of the distemper itself; so that they would talk to the
watchman on one side of the house, while the family
made their escape at another.

For example, in Coleman Street there are abundance
of alleys, as appears still. A house was shut up in that
they call White's Alley, and this house had a back-
window, not a door, into a court, which had a passage
into Bell Alley. A watchman was set by the constable at
the door of this house, and there he stood, or his comrade,
night and day, while the family went all away in the
evening out at that window into the court, and left the
poor fellows warding and watching for near a fortnight.

Not far from the same place they blew up a watchman
with gunpowder, and bumed the poor fellow dreadfully;
and while he made hideous cries, and nobody would
venture to come near to help him, the whole family that
were able to stir got out at the windows one storey high,
two that were left sick calling out for help; Care was taken
to give them nurses to look after them, but the persons
fled were never found, till after the plague was abated
they returned; but as nothing could be proved, so nothing
could be done to them.

It is to be considered, too, that as these were prisons
without bars and bolts, which our common prisons are
furnished with, so the people let themselves down out of
their windows, even in the face of the watchman, bring-
ing swords or pistols in their hands, and threatening the
poor wretch to shoot him if he stirred or called for help.

In other cases, some had gardens, and walls or pales,
between them and their neighbours, or yards and back-
houses; and these, by friendship and entreaties, would get
leave to get over those walls or pales, and so go out at
their neighbours' doors; or, by giving money to their
servants, get them to let them through in the night; so
that, in short, the shutting up of houses was in no wise
to be depended upon. Neither did it answer the end at
all, serving more to make the people desperate, and drive
them to such extremities as that they would break out at
all adventures.

And that which was still worse, those that did thus
break out spread the infection farther by their wandering
about with the distemper upon them, in their desperate
circumstances, than they would otherwise have done; for
whoever considers all the particulars in such cases must
acknowledge, and we cannot doubt but the severity of
those confinements made many people desperate, and
made them run out of their houses at all hazards, and
with the plague visibly upon them, not knowing either
whither to go or what to do, or, indeed, what they did;
and many that did so were driven to dreadful exigencies
and extremities, and perished in the streets or fields for
mere want, or dropped down by the raging violence of
the fever upon'them. Others wandered into the country,
and went forward any way, as their desperation guided
them, not knowing whither they went or would go, till
faint and tired, and not getting any relief, the houses and
villages on the road refusing to admit them to lodge,
whether infected or no, they have perished by the road-
side, or gotten into barns and died there, none daring to
come to them or relieve them, though perhaps not in-
fected, for nobody would believe them.

On the other hand, when the plague at first seized a
family, that is to say, when any one body of the family
had gone out and unwarily or otherwise catched the
distemper and brought it home, it was certainly known
by the family before it was known to the officers, who,
as you will see by the order, were appointed to examine
into the circumstances of all sick persons when they heard
of their being sick.

In this interval between their being taken sick and the
examiners coming, the master of the house had leisure
and liberty to remove himself or all his family, if he knew
whither to go, and many did so. But the great disaster
was, that many did thus after they were really infected
themselves, and so carried the disease into the houses of
those who were so hospitable as to receive them, which,
it must be confessed, was very cruel and ungrateful.

And this was, in part, the reason of the general notion,
or scandal rather, which went about of the temper of peo-
ple infected, namely, that they did not take the least care
or make any scruple of infecting others, though I cannot
say but there might be some truth in it too, but not so
general as was reported. What natural reason could be
given for so wicked a thing at a time when they might
conclude themselves just going to appear at the bar of
Divine Justice I know not. I am very well satisfied that
it cannot be reconciled to religion and principle any more
than it can be to generosity and humanity, but I may
speak of that again.

I'am speaking now of people made desperate by the
apprehensions of their being shut up, and their breaking
out by stratagem or force, either before or after they were
shut up, whose misery was not lessened when they were
out, but sadly increased. On the other hand, many that
thus got away had retreats to go to and other houses,
where they looked themselves up and kept hid till the
plague was over; and many families, foreseeing the ap-
proach of the distemper, laid up stores of provisions suf-
ficient for their whole families, and shut themselves up,
and that so entirely that they were neither seen or heard
of till the infection was quite ceased, and then came
abroad sound and well. I might recollect several such as
these, and give you the particulars of their management;
for, doubtless, it was the most effectual secure step that
could be taken for such whose circumstances would not
admit them to remove, or who had not retreats abroad
proper for the case; for, in being thus shut up, they were
as if they had been a hundred miles off. Nor do I re-
member that any of those families miscarried. Among
these several Dutch merchants were particularly remark-
able, who kept their houses like little garrisons besieged,
suffering none to go in or out or come near them, par-
ticularly one in a court in Throgmorton Street, whose
house looked into Draper's Garden.

But I come back to the case of families infected, and
shut up by the magistrates. The misery of those families
is not to be expressed; and it was generally in such
houses that we heard the most dismal shrieks and out-
cries of the poor people, terrified and even frighted to
death by the sight of the condition of their dearest rela-
tions, and by the terror of being imprisoned as they were.

I remember, and while I am writing this story I think
I hear the very sound of it, a certain lady had an only
daughter, a young maiden about nineteen years old, and
who was possessed of a very considerable fortune. They
were only lodgers in the house where they were. The
young woman, her mother, and the maid had been
abroad on some occasion, I do not remember what, for
the house was not shut up; but about two hours after
they came home the young lady complained she was not
well; in a quarter of an hour more she vomited and had
a violent pain in her head. "Pray God," says her mother,
in a terrible fright, "my child has not the distemper!"
The pain in her head increasing, her mother ordered the
bed to be warmed, and resolved to put her to bed, and
prepared to give her things to sweat, which was the
ordinary remedy to be taken when the first apprehen-
sions of the distemper began.

While the bed was airing the mother undressed the
young woman, and just as she was laid down in the bed,
she, looking upon her body with a candle, immediately
discovered the fatal tokens on the inside of her thighs.
Her mother, not being able to contain herself, threw down
her candle and screeched out in such a frightful manner
that it was enough to place horror upon the stoutest
heart in the world; nor was it one scream or one cry, but
the fright having seized her spirits, she fainted first, then
recovered, then ran all over the house, up the stairs
and down the stairs, like one distracted, and indeed really
was distracted, and continued screeching and crying out
for several hours void of all sense, or, at least, govem-
ment of her senses, and, as I was told, never came thor-
oughly to herself again. As to the young maiden, she was
a dead corpse from that moment, for the gangrene which
occasions the spots had spread [over] her whole body,
and she died in less than two hours. But still the mother
continued crying out, not knowing anything more of her
child, several hours after she was dead. It is so long ago
that I am not certain, but I think the mother never re-
covered, but died in two or three weeks after.
This was an extraordinary case, and I am therefore the
more particular in it, because I came so much to the
knowledge of it; but there were innumerable such-like
cases, and it was seldom that the weekly bill came in but
there were two or three put in frighted; that is, that may
well be called frighted to death. But besides those who
were so frighted as to die upon the spot, there were great
numbers frighted to other extremes, some frighted out of
their senses, some out of their memory, and some out
of their understanding. But I return to the shutting up of
houses.

As several people, I say, got out of their houses by
stratagem after they were shut up, so others got out by
bribing the watchmen, and giving them money to let
them go privately out in the night. I must confess I
thought it at that time the most innocent corruption or
bribery that any man could be guilty of, and therefore
could not but pity the poor men, and think it was hard
when three of those watchmen were publicly whipped
through the streets for sulfering people to go out of
houses shut up.

But notwithstanding that severity, money prevailed
with the poor men, and many families found means to
make sallies out, and escape that way after they had been
shut up; but these were generally such as had some places
to retire to; and though there was no easy passing the
roads any whither after the lst of August, yet there were
many ways of retreat, and particularly, as I hinted, some
got tents and set them up in the fields, carrying beds or
straw to lie on, and provisions to eat, and so lived in them
as hermits in a cell, for nobody would venture to come
near them; and several stories were told of such, some
comical, some tragical, some who lived like wandering
pilgrims in the deserts, and escaped by making them-
selves exiles in such a manner as is scarce to be credited,
and who yet enjoyed more liberty than was to be ex-
pected in such cases.

I have by me a story of two brothers and their kins-
man, who being single men, but that had stayed in the
city too long to get away, and indeed not knowing where
to go to have any retreat, nor having wherewith to travel
far, took a course for their own' preservation, which
though in itself at first desperate, yet was so natural
that it may be wondered that no more did so at that
time. They were but of mean condifion, and yet not so
very poor as that they could not furnish themselves with
some little conveniences such as might serve to keep life
and soul together; and finding the distemper increasing
in a terrible manner, they resolved to shift as well as they
could, and to be gone.

One of them had been a soldier in the late wars, and
before that in the Low Countries, and having been bred
to no particular employment but his arms, and besides
being wounded, and not able to work very hard, had for
some time been employed at a baker's of sea-biscuit in
Wapping.

The brother of this man was a seaman too, but some-
how or other had been hurt of one leg, that he could nbt
go to sea, but had worked for his living at a sailmaker's in
Wapping, or thereabouts; and being a good husband, had
laid up some money, and was the richest of the three.

The third man was a joiner or carpenter by trade, a
handy fellow, and he had no wealth but his box or basket
of tools, with the help of which'he could at any time get
his living, such a time as this excepted, wherever he went,
and he lived near Shadwell.

They all lived in Stepney parish, which, as I have said,
being the last that was infected, or at least violently, they ,
stayed there till they evidently saw the plague was abat-
ing at the west part of the town, and coming towards the
east, where they lived.

The story of those three men, if the reader will be con-
tent to have me give it in their own persons, without tak-
ing upon me to either vouch the particulars or answer
for any mistakes, I shall give as distinctly as I can, be-
lieving the history will be a very good pattern for any
poor man to follow, in case the like public desolation
should happen here; and if there may be no such occa-
sion, which God of His infinite mercy grant us, still the
story may have its uses so many ways as that it will, I
hope, never be said that the relating has been unprofit-
able.

I say all this previous to the history, having yet, for the
present, much more to say before I quit my own part.

I went all the first part of the time freely about the
streets, though not so freely as to run myself into apparent
danger, except when they dug the great pit in the church-
yard of our parish of Aldgate. A terrible pit it was, and
I could not resist my curiosity to go and see it. As near
as I may judge, it was about forty feet in length, and
about fifteen or sixteen feet broad, and, at the time I
first looked at it, about nine feet deep; but it was said
they dug it near twenty feet deep afterwards in one part
of it, till they could go no deeper for the water; for they
had, it seems, dug several large pits before this. For
though the plague was long a-coming to our parish, yet,
when it did come, there was no parish in or about London
where it raged with such violence as in the two parishes
of Aldgate and Whitechapel.

I say they had dug several pits in another ground,
when the distemper began to spread in our parish, and
especially when the dead-carts began to go about, which
was not, in our parish, till the beginning of August. Intothese pits they had put perhaps fifty or sixty bodies each;
then they made larger holes, wherein they buried all that
the cart brought in a week, which, by the middle to the
end of August, came to from 200 to 400 a week; and they
could not well dig them larger, because of the order of the
magistrates confining them to leave no bodies within six
feet of the surface; and the water coming on at about
seventeen or eighteen feet, they could not well, I say,
put more in one pit. But now, at the beginning of Septem-
ber, the plague raging in a dreadful manner, and the
number of burials in our parish increasing to more than
was ever buried in any parish abOut London of no larger
extent, they ordered this dreadful gulf to be dug, for
such it was rather than a pit.

They had supposed this pit would have supplied them
for a month or more when they dug it, and some blamed
the churchwardens for suffering such a frightful thing,
telling them they were making preparations to bury the
whole parish, and the like; but time made it appear the
churchwardens knew the condition of the parish better
than they did, for the pit being finished the 4th of Septem-
ber, I think, they began to bury in it the 6th, and by the
20th, which was just two weeks, they had thrown into it
1114 bodies, when they were obliged to fill it up, the
bodies being then come to lie within six feet of the sur-~
face. I doubt not but there may be some ancient persons
alive in the parish who can justify the fact of this, and
are able to show even in what place of the churchyard
the pit lay better than I can. The mark of it also was many
years to be seen in the churchyard on the surface, lying
in length parallel with the passage which goes by the
west wall of the churchyard out of Houndsditch, and

'tums east again into Whitechapel, coming out near the
Three Nuns' Inn.
It was about the 10th of September that my curiosity
led, or rather drove, me to go and see this pit again, when
there had been near 400 people buried in it; and I was
not content to see it in the day-time, as I had done before,
for then there would have been nothing to have been seen
but the loose earth; for all the bodies that were thrown in
were immediately covered with earth by those they called
the buriers, which at other times were called bearers;
but I resolved to go in the night and see some of them
thrown in.

There was a strict order to prevent people coming to
those pits, and that was only to prevent infection. But
after some time that order was more necessary, for peo-
ple that were infected and near their end, and delirious
also, would run to those pits, wrapt in blankets or rugs,
and throw themselves in, and, as they said, bury them-
selves. I cannot say that the officers suffered any willingly
to lie there; but I have heard that in a great pit in Fins-
bury, in the parish of Cripplegate, it lying open then to
the fields, for it was not then walled about, [some] came
and threw themselves in, and expired there, before they
threw any earth upon them; and that when they came to
bury others, and found them there, they were quite
dead, though not cold.

This may serve a little to describe the dreadful condi-
tion of that day, though it is impossible to say anything
that is able to give a true idea of it to those who did not
see it, other than this, that it was indeed very, very, very
dreadful, and such as no tongue can express.

I got admittance into the churchyard by being ac-
quainted with the sexton who attended, who though he
did not refuse me at all, yet earnestly persuaded me not
to go, telling me very seriously, for he was a good, re-
ligious, and sensible man, that it was indeed their busi-
ness and duty to venture, and to run all hazards, and that
in it they might hope to be preserved; but that I had no
apparent call to it but my own curiosity, which, he said,
he believed I would not pretend was suficient to justify
my running that hazard. I told him I had been pressed in
my mind to go, and that perhaps it might be an instruct-
ing sight, that might not be without its uses. "Nay," says
the good man, "if you will venture upon that score, name
of God go in; for, depend upon it, 't will be a sermon to
you, it may be, the best that ever you heard in your
life. 'T is a speaking sight," says he, "and has a voice with
it, and a loud one, to call us all to repentance," and with
that he opened the door and said, "Go, if you will."

His discourse had shocked my resolution a little, and I
stood wavering for a good while, but just at that interval
I saw two links come over from the end of the Minories,
and heard the bellman, and then appeared a dead-cart,
as they called it, coming over the streets; so I could no
longer resist my desire of seeing it, and went in. There
was nobody, as I could perceive at first, in the church-
yard, or going into it, but the buriers and the fellow that
drove the cart, or rather led the horse and cart; but when
they came up to the pit they saw a man go to and again,
mufiled up in a brown cloak, and making motions with his '
hands under his cloak, as if he was in a great agony, and
the buriers immediately gathered about him, supposing
he was one of those poor delirious or desperate creatures
that used to pretend, as I have said, to bury themselves.
He said nothing as he walked about, but two or three
times groaned very deeply and loud, and sighed as he
would break his heart.

When the buriers came up to him they soon found he
was neither a person infected and desperate, as I have
observed above, or a person distempered in mind, but
one oppressed with a dreadful weight of grief indeed,
having his wife and several of his children all in the cart
that was just come in with him, and he followed in an
agony and excess of sorrow. He mourned heartily, as it
was easy to see, but with a kind of masculine grief that
could not give itself vent by tears; and calmly defying the
buriers to let him alone, said he would only see the bodies
thrown in and go awa , so they left importuning him.
But no sooner was the cart turned round and the bodies
shot into the pit promiscuously, which was a surprise to
him, for he at least expected they would have been de-
cently laid in, though indeed he was afterwards con-
vinced that was impracticable; I say, no sooner did he see
the sight but he cried out aloud, unable to contain him-
self. I could not hear what he said, but he went backwards
two or three steps and fell down in a swoon. The buriers
ran to him and took him up, and in a little while he came
to himself, and they led him away to the Pie Tavern over
against the end of Houndsditch, where, it seems, the man
was known, and where they took care of him. He looked
into the pit again as he went away, but the buriers had
covered the bodies so immediately with throwing in
earth, that though there was light enough, for there were
lanterns, and candles in them, placed all night round the
sides of the pit, upon heaps of earth, seven or eight, or
perhaps more, yet nothing could be seen.

This was a moumful scene indeed, and affected me al-
most as much as the rest; but the other was awful and
full of terror. The cart had in it sixteen or seventeen
bodies; some were wrapt up in linen sheets, some in rags,
some little other than naked, or so loose that what cover-
ing they had fell from them in the shooting out of the
cart, and they fell quite naked among the rest; but the
matter was not much to them, or the indecency much to
any one else, seeing they were all dead, and were to be
huddled together into the common grave of mankind, as
we may call it, for here was no difference made, but poor
and rich went together; there was no other way of burials,
neither was it possible there should, for coiiins were not
to be had for the prodigious numbers that fell in such a
calamity as this. .

It was reported by way of scandal upon the buriers,
that if any corpse was delivered to them decently wound
up, as we called it then, in a winding-sheet tied over the
head and feet, which some did, and which was generally
of good linen; I say, it was reported that the buriers were
so wicked as to strip them in the cart and carry them quite
naked to the ground. But as I cannot easily credit any-
thing so vile among Christians, and at a time so filled with
terrors as that was, I can only relate it and leave it un-
determined. .

Innumerable stories also went about of the cruel be-
haviours and practices of nurses who tended the sick, and
of their hastening on the fate of those they tended in their
sickness. But I shall say more of this in its place. '

I was indeed shocked with this sight; it almost over-
whelmed me, and I went away with my heart most af-
flicted, and full of the afiicting thoughts, such as I can-
not describe. ]ust at my going out of the church, and
turning up the street towards my own house, I saw an-
other cart with links, and a bellman going before, coming
out of Harrow Alley in the Butcher Row, on the other
side of the way, and being, as I perceived, very full of
dead bodies, it went directly over the street also toward
the church. I stood a while, but I had no stomach to go
back again to see the same dismal scene over again, so I
went directly home, where I could not but consider with
thankfulness the risk I had run, believing I had gotten
no injury, as indeed I had not.

Here the poor unhappy gentleman's grief came into my
head again, and indeed I could not but shed tears in the
reflection upon it, perhaps more than he'did himself; but
his case lay so heavy upon my mind that I could not pre-
vail with myself, but that I must go out again into the
street, and go to the Pie Tavern, resolving to inquire
what became of him.

It was by this time one o'clock in the morning, and yet
the poor gentleman was there. The truth was, the people
of the house, knowing him, had entertained him, and
kept him there all the night, notwithstanding the danger
of being infected by him, though it appeared the man was
perfectly sound himself.

It is with regret that I take notice of this tavern. The
people were civil, mannerly, and an obliging sort of folks
enough, and had till this time kept their house open and
their trade going on, though not so very publicly as
formerly; but there was a dreadful set of fellows that
used their house, and who, in the middle of all this hor-
ror, met there every night, behaved with all the revelling
and roaring extravagances as is usual for such people to
do at other times, and, indeed, to such an offensive degree
that the very master and mistress of the house grew first
ashamed and then terrified at them.

They sat generally in a room next the street, and as
they always kept late hours, so when the dead-cart came
across the street-end to go into Houndsditch, which was
in view of the tavern windows, they would frequently
open the windows as soon as they heard the bell and look
out at them; and as they might often hear sad lamenta-
tions of people in the streets or at their windows as the
carts went along, they would make their impudent mocks
and jeers at them, especially if they heard the poor people
call upon God to have mercy upon them, as many would
do at those times in their ordinary passing along the
streets.

These gentlemen, being something disturbed with the
clutter of bringing the poor gentleman into the house, as
above, were first'angry and very high with the master of
the house for suffering such a fellow, as they called him,
to be brought out of the grave into their house; but being
answered that the man was a neighbour, and that he was
sound, but overwhelmed with the calamity of his family,
and the like, they turned their anger into ridiculing the
man and his sorrow for his wife and children, taunted
him with want of courage to leap into the great pit and
go to heaven, as they jeeringly expressed it, along with
them, adding some very profane and even blasphemous
expressions.

They were at this vile work when I came back to the
house, and, as far as I could see, though the man sat
still, mute and disconsolate, and their afironts could not
divert his sorrow, yet he was both grieved and offended
at their discourse. Upon this I gently reproved them,
being well enough acquainted with their characters, and -
not unknown in person to two of them.

They immediately fell upon me with ill language and
oaths, asked me what I did out of my grave at such a time
when so many honester men were carried into the church-
yard, and why I was not at home saying my prayers
against the dead-cart coming for me, and the like.

I was indeed astonished at the impudence of the men,
though not at all discomposed at their treatment of me.
However, I kept my temper. I told them that though I
defied them or any man in the world to tax me with any
dishonesty, yet I acknowledged that in this terrible judg-
ment of God many better than I were swept away and
carried to their grave. But to answer their question di-
rectly, the case was, that I was merciftu preserved by
that great God whose name they had blasphemed and
taken in vain by cursing and swearing in a dreadful man-
ner, and that I behaved I was preserved in- particular,
among other ends of His goodness, that I might reprove
them for their audacious boldness in behaving in such a
manner and in such an awful time as this was, especially
for their jeering and mocking at an honest gentleman and
a neighbour (for some of them knew him), who, they
saw, was overwhelmed with sorrow for the breaches
which it had pleased God to make upon his family.

I cannot call exactly to mind the hellish, abominable
raillery which was the return they made to that talk of
mine, being provoked, it seems, that I was not at all
afraid to be free with them; nor, if I could remember,
would I fill my account with any of the words, the horrid
oaths, curses, and vile expressions, such as, at that time
of the day, even the worst and ordinariest people in the
street would not use; for, except such hardened creatures
as these, the most wicked wretches that could be found
had at that time some terror upon their minds of the
- hand of that Power which could thus in a moment destroy
them.

But that which was the worst in all their devilish
language was, that they were not afraid to blaspheme
Cod and talk atheistically, making a jest of my calling
the plague the hand of God; mocking, and even laugh-
ing, at the word judgment, as if the providence of God
had no concern in the inflicting such a desolating stroke,
and that the people calling upon God as they saw the
carts carrying away the dead bodies was all enthusiastic,
absurd, and impertinent. '

I made them some reply, such as I thought proper,
but which I found was so far from putting a check to
their horrid way of speaking that it made them rail the
more, so that I confess it filled me with horror and a kind
of rage, and I came away, as I told them, lest the hand of
that Judgment which had visited the whole city should
glorify His vengeance upon them, and all that were near
them.

They received all reproof with the utmost contempt,
and made the greatest mockery that was possible for them
to do at me, giving me all the opprobrious, insolent scoffs
that they could think of for preaching to them, as they
called it, which indeed grieved me, rather than angered
me; and I went away, blessing God, however, in my mind
that I had not spared them, though they had insulted me
so much.

They continued this wretched course three or four days
after this, continually mocking and jeering at all that
showed themselves religious or serious, or that were any
way touched with the sense of the terrible judgment of
God upon us; and I was informed they flouted in the same
manner at the good people who, notwithstanding the
contagion, met at the church, fasted, and prayed to God
to remove His hand from them.

I say, they continued this dreadful caurse three of four
days--I think it was no more--when one of them, par-
ticularly he who asked the poor gentleman what he did
out of his grave, was struck from Heaven with the plague,
and died in the most deplorable manner; and, in a word,
they were every one of them carried into the great pit
which I have mentioned above, before it was quite filled
up, which was not above a fortnight or thereabout.

These men were guilty of many extravagances, such
as one would think human nature should have trembled '
at the thoughts of at such a time of general terror as was
then upon us, and particularly scoffing and mocking at
everything which they happened to see that was religious
among the people, especially" their thronging zealously
to the place of public worship to implore mercy from
Heaven in such a time of distress; and this tavern where
they held their club being within view of the church-
door, they had the more particular occasion for their
atheistical profane mirth.

But this began tb abate a little with them before the
accident which I have related happened, for the infection
increased so violently at this part of the town now, that
people began to be afraidto come to the church; at least
such numbers did not resort thither as was, usual. Many
of the clergymen likewise were dead, and others gone into
the country; for it really required a steady courage and a
strong faith for a man not only to venture being in town
at such a time as this, but likewise to venture to come
to church and perform the office of a minister to a con-
gregation, of whom he had reason to believe many of
them were actually infected with the plague, and to do
this every day, or twice a day, as in some places was
done.

It is true the people showed an extraordinary zeal in
these religious exercises and as the church-doors were
always open, people would go in single at all times,
whether the minister was ofiiciating or no, and locking
themselves into separate pews, would be praying to God
with great fervency and devotion.

Others assembled at meeting-houses, every one as their
different opinions in such things guided, but all were
promiscuously the subject of these men's drollery, espe-
cially at the beginning of the visitation.

It seems they had been checked for their open insulting
religion in this manner by several good people of every
persuasion, and that, and the violent raging of the infec-
tion, I suppose, was the occasion that they had abated
much of their rudeness for some time before, and were
only roused by the spirit of ribaldry and atheism at the
clamour which was made when the gentleman was first
brought in there, and perhaps were agitated by the same
devil, when I took upon me to reprove them; though I did
it at first with all the calnmess, temper, and good manners
that I could, which for a while they insulted me the more
for, thinking it had been in" fear of their resentment,
though afterwards they found the contrary.

I went home, indeed, grieved and afflicted in my mind
at the abominable wickedness of those men, not doubt-
ing, however, that they would be made dreadful exam-
ples of God's justice; for I looked upon this dismal time
to be a particular season of Divine vengeance, and that
God would on this occasion single out the proper objects
of His displeasure in a more especial and remarkable
manner than at another time; and that though I did be-
lieve that many good people would, and did, fall in the
common calamity, and that it was no certain rule to judge
of the eternal state of any one by their being distin-
guished in such a time of general destruction neither one
way or other, yet, I say, it could not but seem reasonable
to believe that God would not think fit to spare by His
mercy such open declared enemies, that should insult
His name and Being, defy His vengeance, and mock at
His worship and worshippers at such a time; no, not
though His mercy had thought fit to bear with and spare
them at other times; that this was a day of visitation, a
day of God's anger, and those words came into my
thought, Ier. v. 9: "Shall I not visit for these things? saith
the Lord: and shall not My soul be avenged of such a
nation as this!"

These things, I say, lay upon my mind, and I went
home very much grieved and oppressed with the horror
of these men's wickedness, and to think that anything
could be so vile, so hardened, and so notoriously wicked
as to insult God, and His servants, and His worship in
such a manner, and at such a time as this was, when He
had, as it were, His sword drawn in His hand on purpose
to take vengeance, not on them only, but on the whole
nation.
I had, indeed, been in some passion at first with them,
though it was really raised, not by any affront they had
ofiered me personally, but by the horror their blasphem-
ing tongues filled me with. However, I was doubtful in
my thoughts whether the resentment I retained was not
all upon my own private account, for they had given me
a great deal of ill language too--I mean personally; but
after some pause, and having a weight of grief upon my
mind, I retired myself as soon as I came home, for I slept
not that night; and giving Cod most humble thanks for
my preservation in the eminent danger I had been in, I
set my mind seriously and with the utmost earnestness
to pray for those desperate wretches, that God would
pardon them, open their eyes, and effectually humble
them.

By this I not only did my duty, namely, to pray for
those who despitefully used me, but I fully tried my .own
heart, to my full satisfaction, that it was not filled with
any spirit of resentment as they had offended me in par-
ticular; and I humbly recommended the method to all
those that would know, or be certain, how to distinguish
between their real zeal for the honour of God and the
eEects of their private passions and resentment.

But I must go back here to the particular incidents
which occur to my thoughts of the time of the visitation,
and particularly to the time of their shutting up houses,
in the first part of their sickness; for before the sickness
was come to its height people had more room to make
their observations than they had afterward; but when it
was in the extremity there was no such thing as com-
munication with one another, as before.

During the shutting up of houses, as I have said, some
violence was offered to the watchmen. As to soldiers,
there were none to be found; the few guards which the
king then had, which were nothing like the number en-
tertained since, were dispersed, either at Oxford with the
Court, or in quarters in the remoter parts of the country,
small detachments excepted, who did duty at the Tower
and at Whitehall, and these but very few. Neither am I
positive that there was any other guard at the Tower than
the warders, as they called them, who stand at the gate
with gowns and caps, the same as the yeomen of the
guard, except the ordinary gunners, who were twenty-
four, and the officers appointed to look after the maga-
zine, who were called armourers. As to trained bands,
there was no possibility of raising any; neither, if the
Lieutenancy, either of London or Middlesex, had ordered
the drums to beat for the militia, would any of the com-
panies, I believe, have drawn together, whatever risk they
had run.

This made the watchmen be the less regarded, and
perhaps occasioned the greater violence to be used
against them. I mention it on this score to observe that
the setting watchmen thus to keep the people in was,
first of all, not effectual, but that the people broke out,
whether by force or by stratagem, even almost as often as
they pleased; and, second, that those that did thus break
out were generally people infected, who, in their despera-
tion, mnning about from one place to another, valued not
whom they injured, and which perhaps, as I have said,
might give birth to report that it was natural to the in-
fected people to desire to infect others, which report was
really false.

And I know it so well, and in so many several cases,
that I could give several relations of good, pious, and
religious people who, when they have had the distemper,
have been so far from being forward to infect others that
they have forbid their own family to come near them, in
hopes of their being preserved, and have even died with-
out seeing their nearest relations, lest they should be in-
strumental to give them the distemper, and infect or
endanger them. If, then, there were cases wherein the in-
fected people were careless of the injury they did to
others, this was certainly one of them, if not the chief,
namely, when people who had the distemper had broken
out from houses which were so shut up, and having been
driven to extremities for provision or for entertainment,
had endeavoured to conceal their condition, and have
been thereby instrumental involuntarily to infect others
who have been ignorant and unwary.

This is one of the reasons why I believed then, and do
believe still, that the shutting up houses thus by force,
and restraining, or rather imprisoning, people in their
own houses, as I said above, was of little or no service in
the whole. Nay, I am of opinion it was'rather hurtful,
having forced those desperate people to wander abroad
with the plague upon them, who would otherwise have
died quietly in their beds.

I remember one citizen who, having thus broken out
of his house in Aldersgate Street or thereabout, went
along the road to Islington; he attempted to have gone in
at the Angel Inn, and after that at the White Horse, two
inns known still by the same signs, but was refused; after
which he came to the Pied Bull, an inn also still continu-
ing the same sign. He asked them for lodging for one
night only, pretending to be going into Lincolnshire, and
assuring them of his being very sound and free from the
infection, which also at that time had not reached much
that way.

They told him they had no lodging that they could
spare but one bed up in the garret, and that they could
spare that bed but for one night, some drovers being ex-
pected the next day with cattle; so, if he would accept
of that lodging, he might have it, which he did. So a
servant was sent up with a candle with him to show him
the room. He was very well dressed, and looked like a
person not used to lie in a garret; and when he came to
the room he fetched a deep sigh, and said to the servant,
"I have seldom lain in such a lodging as this." However,
the servant assuring him again that they had no better,
"We ," says he, "I must make shift; this is a dreadful
time; but it is but for one night." So he sat down upon
the bedside, and bade the maid, I think it was, fetch him
up a pint of warm ale. Accordingly the servant went for
the ale, but some hurry in the house, which perhaps em-
ployed her other ways, put it out of her head, and she
went up no more to him.

The next morning, seeing no appearance of the gentle-
man, somebody in the house asked the servant that had
showed him upstairs what was become of him. She
started. "Alas!" says she, "I never thought more of him.
He bade me carry him some warm ale, but I forgot."
Upon which, not the maid, but some other person was
sent up to see after him, who, coming into the room,
1 found him stark dead and almost cold, stretched out
' across the bed. His clothes were pulled off, his jaw fallen,
his eyes open in a most frightful posture, the rug of the
bed being grasped hard in one of his hands, so that it
was plain he died soon after the maid left him; and 't is
probable, had she gone up with the ale, she had found
him dead in a few minutes after he sat down upon the
bed. The alarm was great in the house, as any one may
suppose, they having been free from the distemper till
that disaster, which, bringing the infection to the house,
spread it immediately to other houses round about it. I
do not remember how many died in the house itself, but
I think the maid-servant who went up first with him fell '
presently ill by the fright, and several others; for, whereas
there died but two in Islington of the plague the week
before, there died seventeen the week after, whereof
fourteen were of the plague. This was 'in the week from
the 11th of July to the 18th.

There was one shift that some families had, and that
not a few, when their houses happened to be infected, and
that was this: the families who, in the first breaking out
of the distemper, fled away into the country and had re-
treats among their friends, generally found some or other
of their neighbours or relations to commit the charge of
those houses to for the safety of the goods and the like.
Some houses were, indeed, entirely locked up, the doors
padlocked, the windows and doors having deal boards
nailed over them, and only the inspection of them com-
mitted to the ordinary watchmen and parish oflicers; but
these were but few.

It was thought that there were not less than 10,000
houses forsaken of the inhabitants in the city and suburbs,
including what was in the outparishes and in Surrey, or
the side of the water they called Southwark. This was
besides the numbers of lodgers, and of particular persons
who were fled out of other families; so that in all it was
computed that about 200,000 people were fled and gone.
But of this I shall speak again. But I mention it here on
this account, namely, that it was a rule with those who
had thus two houses in their keeping or care, that if any-
body was taken sick in a family, before the master of the
family let the examiners or any other oflicer know of it,
he immediately would send all the rest of his family,
whether children or servants, as it fell out to be, to such
other house which he had so in charge, and then giving
notice of the sick person to the examiner, have a nurse
or nurses appointed, and have another person to be shut
up in the house with them (which many for money would
do), so to take charge of the house in case the person
should die.

This was, in many cases, the saving a whole family,-\_

 

A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 423 V

who, if they had been shut up with the sick person, would
inevitably have perished. But, on the other hand, this was
another of the inconveniences of shutting up houses; for .
the apprehensions and terror of being shut up made many
run away with the rest of the family, who, though it was
not publicly known, and they were not quite. sick, had yet
the distemper upon them; and who, by having an unin-
terrupted liberty to go about, but being obliged still to
conceal their circumstances, or perhaps not knowmg it
themselves, gave the distemper to others, and spread the
infection in a dreadful manner, as I shall explain further
hereafter.

And here I may be able to make an observation or two
of my own, which may be of use hereafter to those into
whose hands these may come, if they should ever see the
like dreadful visitation. (1.) The infection generally came
into the houses of the citizens by the means of their serv-
ants, whom they were obliged to send up and down the
streets for necessaries; that is to say, for food or physio, to
bake-houses, brew-houses, shops, &c.; and who going
necessarily through the streets into shops, markets, and
the like, it was impossible but that they should, one way
or other, meet with distempered people, who conveyed
the fatal breath into them, and they brought it home to
the families to which they belonged. (2.) It was a great
mistake that such a great city as this had but one pest-
house; for had there been, instead of one pest-house--
viz., beyond Bunhill Fields, where, at most, they could
receive, perhaps, two hundred or three hundred people
--I say, had there, instead of that one, been several
pest-houses, every one able to contain a thousand people,
without lying two in a bed, or two beds in a room; and ,
had every master of a family, as soon as any servant espe
cially had been taken sick in his house, been obliged to
send them to the next pest-house, if they were willing, as

r
many were, and had the examiners done the like among
the poor people when any had been stricken with the in-
fection; I say, had this been done where the people were
willing (not otherwise), and the houses not been shut, I
am persuaded, and was all the while of that opinion, that
not so many, by several thousands, had died; for it was
observed, and I could give several instances within the
compass of my own knowledge, where a servant had
been taken sick, and the family had either time to send
him out or retire from the house and leave the sick per-
son, as I have said above, they had all been preserved;
whereas when, upon one or more sickening in a family,
the house has been shut up, the whole family have per-
ished, and the bearers been obliged to go in to fetch out
the dead bodies, not being able to bring them to the door,
and at last none left to do it.

(3.) This put it out of question to me, that the calamity
was spread by infection; that is to say, by some certain
steams or fumes, which the physicians call effluvia, by
the breath, or by the sweat, or by the stench of the sores
of the sick persons, or some other way, perhaps, beyond
even the reach of the physicians themselves, which
eflluvia affected the sound who came within certain dis-
tances of the sick, immediately penetrating the vital parts
of the said sound persons, putting their blood into an im-
mediate ferment, and agitating their spirits to that degree
which it was found they were agitated; and so those
newly infected persons communicated it in the same man--
ner to others. And this I shall give some instances of, that
cannot but convince those who seriously consider it; and
I cannot but with some wonder find some people, now
the contagion is over, talk of its being an immediate stroke
from Heaven, without the agency of means, having com-
mission to strike this and that particular person, and none
other, which I look upon with contempt as the effect of.
manifest ignorance and enthusiasm; likewise the opinion
of others, who talk of infection being carried on by the
air only, by carrying with it vast numbers of insects and
invisible creatures, who enter into the body with the
breath, or even at the pores with the air, and there gen-
erate or emit most acute poisons, or poisonous oven or
eggs, which mingle themselves with the blood, and so in--
fect the body: a discourse full of learned simplicity, and
manifested to be so by universal experience; but I shall
say more to this case in its order.

I must here take further notice that nothing was more
fatal to the inhabitants of this city than the supine negli-
gence of the people themselves, who, during the long
notice or warning they had of the visitation, made no pro-
vision for it, by laying in store of provisions, or of other
necessaries, by which they might have lived retired, and
within their own houses, as I have observed others did,
and who were in a great measure preserved by that cau-
tion; nor were they, after they were a little hardened to
it, so shy of conversing with one another, when actually
infected, as they were at first, no, though they knew it.

I acknowledge I was one of those thoughtless ones that
had made so little provision that my servants were obliged
to go out of doors to buy every trifle by penny and half-
penny, just as before it began, even fill my experience
showing me the folly, I began to be wiser so late that I
had scarce time to store myself sufficient for our common
subsistence for a month.

I had in family only an ancient woman that managed
the house, a maid-servant, two apprentices, and myself;
and the plague beginning to increase about us, I had
many sad thoughts about what course I should take, and
how I should act. The many dismal objects, which hap- .
pened everywhere as I went about the streets, had filled
my mind with a great deal of horror, for fear of the dis-
temper, which was, indeed, very horrible in itself, and in
some more than in others. The swellings, which were
generally in the neck or groin, when they grew hard and
would not break, grew so painful that it was equal to the
most exquisite torture; and some, not able to bear the
torment, threw themselves out at windows or shot them-
selves, or otherwise made themselves away, and I saw
several dismal objects of that kind. Others, unable to
contain themselves, vented their pain by incessant roar--
ings, and such loud and lamentable cries were to be heard
as we walked along the streets that would pierce the very
heart to think of, especially when it was to be considered
that the same dreadful scourge might be expected every
moment to seize upon ourselves.

I cannot say but that now I began to faint in my reso-
lutions; my heart failed me very much, and sorely I re-
pented of my rashness. When I had been out, and met
with such terrible things as these I have talked of, I say
I repented my rashness in venturing to abide in town.
I wished often that I had not taken upon me to stay, but
had gone away with my brother and his family.

Terrified by those frightful objects, I would retire home
sometimes, and resolve to go out no more; and perhaps
I would keep those resolutions for three or four days,
which time I spent in the most serious thankfulness for
my preservation and the preservation of my family, and
the constant confession of my sins, giving myself up to
God every day, and applying to Him with fasting, humili-
ation, and meditation. Such intervals as I had I employed
in reading books and in writing down my memorandums
of what occurred to me every day, and out of which, after-
wards, I took most of this work, as it relates to my ob-
servations without doors. What I wrote of my private
meditations I reserve for private use, and desire it may
not be made public on any account whatever.
I also wrote other meditations upon divine subjects,
such as occurred to me at that time and were profitable to
myself, but not fit for any other view, and therefore I say
no more of that.

I had a very good friend, a physician, whose name was
Heath, whom I frequently visited during this dismal time,
and to whose advice I was very much obliged for many
things which he directed me to take, by way of prevent-
ing the infection when I went out, as he found I fre-
quently did, and to hold in my mouth when I was in the
streets. He also came very often to see me, and as he was
a good Christian as well as a good physician, his agree-
able conversation was a very great support to me in the
worst of this terrible time.

It was now the beginning of August, and the plague
grew very violent and terrible in the place where I lived,
and Dr. Heath coming to visit me, and finding that I
ventured so often out in the streets, earnestly persuaded
me to lock myself up and my family, and not to suffer any
of us to go out of doors; to keep all our windows fast,
shutters and curtains close, and never to open them; but
first, to make a very strong smoke in the room where the
window or door was to be opened, with rosin and pitch,
brimstone or gunpowder, and the like; and we did this
for some time; but as I had not laid in a store of provi-
sion for such a retreat, it was impossible that we could
keep within doors entirely. HoWever, I attempted, though
it was so very late, to do something towards it; and first,
as I had convenience both for brewing and baking, I went
and bought two sacks of meal, and for several weeks, hav-
ing an oven, we baked all our own bread; also I bought
malt, and brewed as much beer as all the casks I had
would hold, and which seemed enough to serve my house
for five or six weeks; also I laid in a quantity of salt butter
and Cheshire cheese; but I had no flesh-meat, and the

" ,If'qu
plague raged so violently among the butchers and
slaughter-houses on the other side of our street, where

And here I must observe again, that this necessity of
going out of our houses to buy provisions was in a great
measure the ruin of the whole city, for the people catched
the distemper on these occasions one of another, and even
the provisions themselves were often tainted; at least I
have great reason to believe so; and therefore I cannot
say with satisfaction what I know is repeated with great '
assurance, that the market-people and such as brought
provisions to town were never infected. I am certain the
butchers of Whitechapel, where the greatest part of the
flesh-meat was killed, were dreadfully visited, and that at
least to such a degree that few of their shops were kept
open, and those that remained of them killed their meat
at Mile End and that way, and brought it to market upon
horses.

However, the poor people could not lay up provisions,
and there was a necessity that they must go to market to
buy, and others to send servants or their children; and as
this was a necessity which renewed itself daily, it brought
abundance of unsound people to the markets, and a great
many that went thither sound brought death home with
them.

It is true people used all possible precaution. When
any one bought a joint of meat in the market they would
not take it off the butcher's hand, but took it off the hooks
themselves. On the other hand, the butcher would not
touch the money, but have it put into a pot full of vinegar,
which he kept for that purpose. The buyer carried always
small money to make up any odd sum, that they might
take no change. They carried bottles of scents and per-
fumes in their hands, and all the means that could be
used were used; but then the poor could not do even these
things, and they went at all hazards.

Innumerable dismal stories we heard every day on this
very account. Sometimes a man or woman dropped down
dead in the very markets, for many people that had the
plague upon them knew nothing of it till the inward
gangrene had affected their Vitals, and they died in a few
moments. This caused that many died frequently in that
manner in the streets suddenly, without any warning;
others perhaps had time to go to the next bulk or stall, or
to any door-porch, and just sit down and die, as I have
said before. .

These objects were so frequent in the streets that when
the plague came to be very raging on one side, there was
scarce any passing by the streets but that several dead
bodies would be lying here and there upon the ground.
On the other hand, it is observable, that though at first
the people would stop as they went along and call to the
neighbours to come out on such an occasion, yet after-
ward no notice was taken of them; but that, if at any time
we found a corpse lying, go across the way and not come
near it; or, if in a narrow lane or passage, go back again
and seek some other way to go on the business we were
upon; and in those cases the corpse was always left till
the officers had notice to come and take them away, or till
night, when the bearers attending the dead-cart would
take them up and carry them away. Nor did. those un-
daunted creatures who performed these ofices fail to
search their pockets, and sometimes strip off their clothes
if they were well dressed, as sometimes they were, and
carry off what they could get.

But to return to the markets. The butchers took that
(are that if any person died in the market they had .the
officers always at hand to take them up upon hand-
barrows and carry them to the next churchyard; and this
was so frequent that such were not entered in the weekly
bill, "Found dead in the streets or fields," as is the case
now, but they went into the general articles of the great
distemper.

But now the fury of the distemper increased to such a
degree that even the markets were but very thinly fur~
nished with provisions or frequented with buyers com-
pared to what they were before; and the Lord Mayor
caused the country people who brought provisions to be
stopped in the streets leading into the town, and to sit
down there with their goods, where they sold what they
brought, and went immediately away; and this encour-
aged the country people greatly to do so, for they sold
their provisions at the very entrances into the town, and
even in the fields, as particularly in the fields beyond
Whitechapel, in Spitalfields; deg also in St. George's Fields
in Southwark, in Bunhill Fields, and in a great field called
Wood's Close, near Islington. Thither the Lord Mayor,
aldermen, and magistrates sent their officers and servants
to buy for their families, themselves keeping within doors
as much as possible, and the like did many other people;
and after this method was taken the country people came
with great cheerfulness, and brought provisions of all
sorts, and very seldom got any harm, which, I suppose,
added also to that report of their being miraculously
preserved.

As for my little family, having thus, as I have said, laid
in a store of bread, butter, cheese, and beer, I took my
friend and physician's advice, and locked myself up, and
my family, and resolved to suffer the hardship of living
a few months without flesh-meat, rather than to purchase
it at the hazard of our lives.

deg Those streets now called Spitalfields were then indeed open
fields. [1754 edition]
But though I confined my family, I could not prevail
upon my unsatisfied curiosity to stay within entirely my-
self; and though I generally came frighted and terrified
home, yet I could not restrain; only that indeed I did not
do it so frequently as at first.

I had some little obligations, indeed, upon me to go to
my brother's house, which was in Coleman Street parish,
and which he had left to my care, and I went at first every
day, but afterwards only once or twice a week.

In these walks I had'many dismal scenes before my
eyes, as particularly of persons falling dead in the streets,
terrible shn'eks and screechings of women, who, in their
agonies, would throw open their chamber windows and
cry out in a dismal, surprising manner. It is impossible
to describe the variety of postures in which the passions
of the poor people would express themselves. '

Passing through Tokenhouse Yard, in Lothbury, of a
sudden a casement violently opened just over my head,
and a woman gave three frightful screeches, and then
cried, "Ohl death, death, death!" in a most inimitable
tone, and which struck me with horror and a chillness in
my very blood. There was nobody to be seen in the whole
street, neither did any other window open, for people had
no curiosity now in any case, nor could anybody help one
another, so I went on to pass into Bell Alley.

Justin Bell Alley, on the right hand of the passage,
there was a more terrible cry than that, though it was not
so directed out at the window; but the whole family was
in a terrible fright, and I could hear women and children
run screaming about the rooms like distracted, when a
garret-window opened, and somebody from a window on

the other side the alley called and asked, "What is the.

matter?" upon which, from the first window it was an-
swered, "O Lord, my old master has hanged himself!"
The other asked again,- "Is he quite dead?" and the first
answered, "Ay, ay, quite dead; quite dead and cold!"
This person was a merchant and a deputy alderman, and
very rich. I care not to mention the name, though I knew
his name too, but that would be an hardship to the family,
which is now flourishing again.

But this is but one; it is scarce credible what dreadful
cases happened in particular families every day. People
in the rage of the distemper, or in the torment of their
swellings, which was indeed intolerable, running out of
their own government, raving and distracted, and often-
times laying violent hands upon themselves, throwing
themselves out at their windows, shooting themselves,
&c.; mothers murdering their own children in their lun-
acy, some dying of mere grief as a passion, some of mere
fright and surprise without any infection at all, others
frighted into idiotism and foolish distractions, some into
despair and lunacy, others into melancholy madness.

The pain of the swelling was in particular very violent,
and to some intolerable; the physicians and surgeons may
be said to have tortured many poor creatures even to
death. The swellings in some grew hard, and they applied
violent drawing-plaisters or poultices to break them, and
if these did not do they cut and scarified them in a terrible
manner. In some those swellings were made hard partly
by the force of the distemper and partly by their being
too violently drawn, and were so hard that no instrument
could cut them, and then they burnt them with caustics,
so that many died raving mad with the torment, and some

sin the very operation. In these dish'esses, some, for want
of help to hold them down in their beds, or to look to
them, laid hands upon themselves, as above. Some broke
out into the streets, perhaps naked, and would run di-
rectly down to the river, if they were not stopped by the
watchmen or other officers, and plunge themserves into
the water wherever they found it.
It often pierced my very soul to hear the groans and
cries of those who were thus tormented, but of the two
this was counted the most promising particular in the
whole infection, for, if these swellings could be brought
to a head, and to break and run, or, as the surgeons call
it, to digest, the patient generally recovered; whereas
those who, like the gentlewoman's daughter, were struck

with death at the beginning, and had the tokens come -

out upon them, often went about indifferent easy till a
little before they died, and some till the moment they
dropped down, as in apoplexies and epilepsies is often
the case. Such would be taken suddenly very sick, and
would run to a bench or bulk, or any convenient place
that offered itself, or to their own houses if possible, as I
mentioned before, and there sit down, grow faint, and
die. This kind of dying was much the same as it was with
those who die of common mortifications, who die swoon-
ing, and, as it were, go away in a dream. Such as died
thus had very little notice of their being infected at all
till the gangrene was spread through their whole body;

nor could physicians themselves know certainly how it

was with them, till they opened their breasts or other
parts of their body, and saw the tokens.

We had at this time a great many frightful stories told
us of nurses and watchmen who looked after the dying
people; that is to say, hired nurses, who attended infected
people, using them barbarously, starving them, smother-
ing them, or by other wicked means hastening their end,
that is to say, murdering of them; and watchmen, being

set to guard houses that were shut up when there has
been but one person left, and perhaps that one lying sick, '

that they have broke in and murdered that body, and
immediately thrown them out into the dead-cart! and so
they have gone scarce cold to the grave.

I cannot say but that some such murders were com-
mitted, and I think two were sent to prison for it, but died
before they could be tried; and I have heard that three
others, at several times, were excused for murders of that
kind; but I must say I believe nothing of its being so com-
mon a crime as some have since been pleased to say, nor
did it seem to be so rational where the people were
brought so low as not to be able to help themselves, for
such seldom recovered, and there was no temptation to
commit a murder, at least none equal to the fact, where
they were sure persons would die in so short a time, and
could not live.

That there were a great many robberies and wicked
practices committed even in this dreadful time I do not
deny. The power of avarice was so strong in some that
they would run any hazard to steal and to plunder; and
particularly in houses where all the families or inhabitants
have been dead and carried out, they would break in at
all hazards, and without regard to the danger of infection,
take even the clothes off the dead bodies and the bed-
clothes from others where they lay dead.

This, I suppose, must be the case of a family in Hounds-
ditch, where a man and his daughter, the rest of the fam-
ily being, as I suppose, carried away before by the dead-
cart, were found stark naked, one in one chamber and
one in another, lying dead on the floor, and the clothes
of the beds, from whence 't is supposed they were rolled
off by thieves, stolen and carried quite away.

It is indeed to be observed that the women were in all
this calamity the most rash, fearless, and desperate crea-
tures, and as there were vast numbers that went about as
nurses to tend those that were sick, they committed a
great many petty thieveries in the houses where they were
employed; and some of them were publicly whipped for
it, when perhaps they ought rather to have been hanged
for examples, for numbers of houses were robbed on these
occasions, till at length the parish officers were sent to
recommend nurses to the sick, and always took an account
whom it was they sent, so as that they might call them to
account if the house had been abused where they were
laced.

P But these robberies extended chiefly to wearing-clothes,
linen, and what rings or money they could come at when
the person died who was under their care, but not to a
general plunder of the houses; and I could give you an
account of one of these nurses, who, several years after,
being on her death-bed, confessed with the utmost horror
the robberies she had committed at the time of her being
a nurse, and by which she had enriched herself to a great
degree. But as for murders, I do not find that there was
ever any proof of the facts in the manner as it has been
reported, except as above. '

They did tell me, indeed, of a nurse in one place that
laid a wet cloth upon the face of a dying patient whom
she tended, and so put an end to this life, who was just
expiring before; and another that smothered a young
woman she was looking to when she was in a fainting
fit, and would have come to herself; some that killed them
by giving them one thing, some another, and some starved
them by giving them nothing at all. But these stories had
two marks of suspicion that always attended them, which
caused me always to slight them, and to look on them as
mere stories, that people continually frighted one another
with. First, that wherever it was that we heard it, they
always placed the scene at the farther end of the town,
opposite or most remote from where you were to hear it.
If you heard it in Whitechapel, it had happened at St.
Giles's, or at Westminster, or Holbom, or that end of the
town. If you heard of it at that end of the town, then it
was done in Whitechapel, or the Minories, or about
Cripplegate parish. If-yOu heard of it in the city, why,
then it happened in Southwark; and if you heard of it in
Southwark, then it was done in the city, and the like.

In the next place, of what part soever you heard the
story, the particulars were always the same, especially
that of laying a wet double clout on a dying man's face,
and that of smothering a young gentlewoman; so that it
was apparent, at least to my judgment, that there was
more of tale than of truth in those things.

However, I cannot say but it had some effect upon the
people, and particularly that, as I said before, they grew
more cautious whom they took into their houses, and
whom they trusted their lives with, and had them always
recommended if they could; and where they could not
find such, for they were not very plenty, they applied to
the parish officers.

But here again the misery of that time lay upon the
poor, who, being infected, had neither food or physio,
neither physician or apothecary to assist them, or nurse
to attend them. Many of those died calling for help, and
even for sustenance, out at their windows, in a most mis-
erable and deplorable manner; but it must be added that
whenever the cases of such persons or families were rep-
resented to my Lord Mayor they always were relieved.

It is true, in some houses where the people were not
very poor, yet where they had sent perhaps their wives
and children away, and if they had any servants they had
been dismissed;--I say, it is true, that to save the ex-
penses, many such as these shut themselves in, and not
having help, died alone.

A neighbour and acquaintance of mine, having some
money owing to him from a shopkeeper in Whitecross
Street or thereabouts, sent his apprentice, a youth about
eighteen years of age, to endeavour to get the money. He
came to the door, and finding it shut, knocked pretty
hard, and, as he thought, heard somebody answer within,
but was not sure, so he waited, and after some stay
knocked again, and then a third time, when he heard
somebody coming downstairs.

At length the man of the house came to the door; he
had on his breeches or drawers, and a yellow flannel
waistcoat, no stockings, a pair of slipped-shoes, a white
cap on his head, and, as the young man said, "death in
his face."

When he opened the door, says he, "What do you dis-
turb me thus for?" The boy, though a little surprised, re-'
plied, "I come from such a one, and my master sent me
for the money which he says you know of." "Very well,
child," returns the living ghost; "call as you go by at
Cripplegate Church, and bid them ring the bell:" and
with these words shut the door again, and went up again,
and died the same day; nay, perhaps the same hour. This
the young man told me himself, and I have reason to be-
lieve it. This was while the plague was not come to a
height: I think it was in June, towards the latter end of
the month; it must be before the dead-carts came about,
and while they used the ceremony of ringing the bell for
the dead, which was over for certain, in that parish at
least, before the month of July, for by the 25th of July
there died 550 and upwards in a week, and then they
could no more bury in form, rich or poor.

I have mentioned above that notwithstanding this
dreadful calamity, yet the numbers of thieves were
abroad upon all occasions, where they had found any
prey, and that these were generally women. It was one
morning about eleven o'clock, I had walked out to my
brother's house in Coleman Street parish, as I often did,
to see that all was safe.

My brother's house. had a little court before it, and a -
brick wall and a gate in it, and within that several ware-
houses where his goods of several sorts lay. It happened
that in one of these warehouses were several packs of
women's high-crowned hats, which came out of the coun-
try, and were, as I suppose, for exportation, whither I
know not.

I was surprised that when I came near my brother's
door, which was in a place they called Swan Alley, I met
three or four women with high-crowned hats on their
heads; and, as I remembered afterwards, one, if not more,
had some hats likewise in their hands; but as I did not see
them come out at my brother's door, and not knowing
that my brother had any such goods in his warehouse, I
did not offer to say anything to them, but went across the
way to shun meeting them, as was usual to do at that
time, for fear of the plague. But when I came nearer to
the gate, I met another woman with more hats come out
of the gate. "What business, mistress," said I, "have you
had there?" "There are more people there," said she; "I
have had no more business there than they." I was hasty
to get to the gate then, and said no more to her, by which
means she got away. But just as I came to the gate, I saw
two more coming across the yard to come out with hats
also on their heads and under their arms, at which I threw

'

and took them from them. One of them, who, I confess,
did not look like a thief--"Indeed," says she, "we are
wrong, but we were told they were goods that had no
owner. Be pleased to take them again; and look yonder,
there are more such customers as we." She cried and
looked pitifully, so I took the hats from her, and opened
the gate, and bade them be gone, for I pitied the women
indeed; but when I looked towards the warehouse, as she
directed, there were six or seven more, all Women, fitting
themselves with hats, as unconcerned and quiet as if they
had been at a hatter's shop buying for their money.

I was surprised, not at the sight of so many thieves only,
but at the circumstances I was in; being now to
myself in among so many people, who for some weeks
had been so shy of myself, that if I met anybody in the
street I would cross the way from them.

They were equally surprised, though on another ac-
count. They all told me they were neighbours, that they
had heard any one might take them, that they were no-
body's goods, and the like. I talked big to them at first,
went back to the gate and took out the key, so that they .
were all my prisoners, threatened to lock them all into
the warehouse, and go and fetch my Lord Mayor's officers
for them.

They begged heartily, protested they found the gate
open, and the warehouse door open; and that it had no
doubt been broken open by some who expected to find
goods of greater value, which indeed was reasonable to
believe, because the lock was broke, and a padlock that
hung to the door on the outside also loose, and not
abundance of the hats carried away.

At length I considered that this was not a time to be
cruel and rigorous; and besides that, it would necessarily
oblige me to go much about, to have several people come
to me, and I go to several whose circumstances of health
I knew nothing of; and that even at this time the plague
was so high as that there died 4000 a week; so that in
showing my resentment, or even in seeking justice for my
brother's goods, I might lose my own life; so I contented
myself with taking the names and places where some of
them lived, who were really inhabitants in the neighbour-
hood, and threatening that my brother should call them
to an account for it when he returned to his habitation.
Then I talked a little upon another foot with them, and
asked them how they could do such things as these in a
time of such general calamity, and, as it were, in the face
of God's most dreadful judgments, when the plague was
at their very doors, and, it may be, in their very houses,
and they did not know but that the dead-cart might stop
at their doors in a few hours, to carry them to their graves.

I could not perceive that my discourse made much im-
pression upon them all that while, till it happened that
there came two men of the neighbourhood, hearing of the
disturbance, and knowing my brother, for they had been
both dependents upon his family, and they came to my
assistance. These being, as I said, neighbours, presently
knew three of the women, and told me who they were,
and where they lived; and, it seems, they had given me a
true account of themselves before.

This brings these two men to a further remembrance.
The name of one was John Hayward, who was at that
time under-sexton of the parish of St. Stephen, Coleman
Street. By under-sexton was understood at that time
gravedigger and bearer of the dead. This man carried, or
assisted to carry, all the dead to their graves which were
buried in that large parish, and who were carried in form,
and after that form of burying was stopped, went with
the dead-cart and the bell to fetch the dead bodies from
the houses where they lay, and fetched many of them out
of the chambers and homes; for the parish was, and is
still, remarkable particularly, above all the parishes in
London, for a great number of alleys and thoroughfares,
very long, into which no carts could come, and where they
were obliged to go and fetch the bodies a very long way;
which alleys now remain to witness it, such as White's
Alley, Cross Key Court, Swan Alley, Bell Alley, White
Horse Alley, and many more. Here they went with a
kind of hand-barrow and laid the dead bodies on it, and
carried them out to the carts; which work he performed
and never had the distemper at all, but lived about
twenty years after it, and was sexton of the parish to the
time of his death. His wife at the same time was a nurse
to infected people, and tended many that died in the
parish, being for her honesty recommended by the parish
ofl'icers, yet she never was infected neither.

He never used any preservative against the infection,
other than holding garlic and rue in his mouth, and smok-
ing tobacco. This I also had from his own mouth. And
his wife's remedy was washing her head in vinegar, and
sprinkling her head-clothes so with vinegar as to keep
them always moist; and if the smell of any of those she
waited on was more than ordinary offensive, she snuffed
vinegar up her nose and sprinkled vinegar upon her head-
clothes, and held a handkerchief wetted with vinegar to
her mouth.

It must be confessed that though the plague was chiefly
among the poor, yet were the poor the most venturous
and fearless of it, and went about their employment with
a sort of brutal courage; I must call it so, for it was
founded neither on religion nor prudence; scarce did they
use any caution, but ran into any business which they
could get employment in, though it was the most hazard-
ous. Such was that of tending the sick, watching houses
shut up, canying infected persons to the pest-house, and,
which was still worse, carrying the dead away to their
graves.

It was under this John Hayward's care, and within his
bounds, that the story of the piper, with which people
have made themselves so merry, happened, and he as--
sured me that it was true. It is said that it was a blind
piper; but, as John told me, the fellow was not blind, but
an ignorant, weak, poor man, and usually walked his
rounds about ten o'clock at night and went piping along
from door to door, and the people usually took him in at
public-houses where they knew him, and would give him
drink and victuals, and sometimes farthings; and he in
return would pipe and sing and talk simply, which di-
verted the people; and thus he lived. It was but a very
bad time for this diversion while things were as I have
told, yet the poor fellow went about as usual, but was al-
most starved; and when anybody asked how he did he
would answer, the dead--cart had not taken him yet, but
that they had promised to call for him next week.

It happened one night that this poor fellow, whether
somebody had given him too much drink or no--John
Hayward said he had not drink in his house, but that
they had given him a little more victuals than ordinary
at a public-house in Coleman Street--and the poor fellow,
having not usually had a bellyful for perhaps not a good
while, was laid all along upon the top of a bulk or stall,
and fast asleep, at a door in the street near London Wall,
towards Cripplegate, and that upon the same bulk or stall
the people of some house, in the alley of which the house
was a corner, hearing a bell, which they always rang be-
fore the cart came, had laid a body really dead of the
plague just by him, thinking, too, that this poor fellow had
been a dead body, as the other was, and laid there by
some of the neighbours.

Accordingly, when John Hayward with his bell and the
cart came along, finding two dead bodies lie upon the
stall, they took them up with the instrument they used
and threw them into the cart, and all this while the piper
slept soundly.

From hence they passed along and took in other dead
bodies, till, as honest John Hayward told me, they almost
buried him alive in the cart; yet all this while he slept
soundly. At length the cart came to the lace where the
bodies were to be thrown into the ground: which, as I do
remember, was at Mount Mill; and as the cart usually
stopped some time before they were ready to shoot out
the melancholy load they had in it, as soon as the earl:
stopped the fellow awaked and struggled a little to get
his head out from among the dead bodies, when, raising
himself up in the cart, he called out, "Heyl where am'I?'
This frighted the fellow that attended about the work;
but after some pause John Hayward, recovering himself,
said, "Lord, bless us! There's somebody in the cart not
quite dead!" So another called to him and said, "Who are
you?" The fellow answered, "I am the poor piper. Where
am I?" "Where are you?" says Hayward. "Why, you are
in the dead-cart, and we are going to bury you." "But I
an't dead though, am I?" says the piper, which made
them laugh a little, though, as John said, they were heart-
ily frighted at first; so they helped the poor fellow down,
and he went about his business.

I know the story goes he set up his pipes in the cart and
frighted the bearers and others so that they ran away; but
John Hayward did not tell the story so, nor say anything
of his piping at all; but that he was a poor piper, and that
he was carried away as above I am fully satisfied of the
truth of.

It is to be noted here that the dead-carts in the city
were not confined to particular parishes, but one cart went
through several parishes, according as the number of dead
presented; nor were they tied to carry the dead to their
respective parishes, but many of the dead taken up in
the city were carried to the burying-ground in the out-
parts for want of room.

I have already mentioned the surprise that this judg-
ment was at first among the people. I must be allowed to
give some of my observations on the more serious and re-
ligious part. Surely never city, at least of this bulk and
magnitude, was takenin a condition so perfectly unpre-Pages
444 - 445
Missing
From
Original
of a like visitation, which God keep the city from;----I say,
it may be of use to observe that by the care of the Lord 3
Mayor and aldermen at that time in distributing weekly
great sums of money for relief of the poor, a multitude of
people, who would otherwise have perished, were re-
lieved, and their lives preserved. And here let me enter
into a brief state of the case of the poor at that time, and
what way apprehended from them, from whence may be
judged hereafter what may be expected if the like distress
should come upon the city. '

At the beginning of the plague, when there was now
no more hope but that the whole city would be visited;
when, as I have said, all that had friends or estates in the
country retired with their families; and when, indeed, one
would have thought the very city itself was running out
of the gates, and that there would be nobody left behind;
you may be sure from that hour all trade, except such as
related to immediate subsistence, was, as it were, at a full
sto .

Tphis is so lively a case, and contains in it so much of
the real condition of the people, that I think I cannot be
too particular in it, and therefore I descend to the several
arrangements or classes of people who fell into immedi-
ate distress upon this occasion. For example:--

1. All master-workmen in manufactures, especially such as
belonged to ornament, and the less necessary parts of the peo-
ple's ress, clothes, and furniture for houses, such as riband-
weavers and other weavers, gold and silver lace makers, and
gold and silver wire drawers, sempstresses, milliners, shoe-
makers, hatmakers, and glovemakers; also upholsterers, join-
ers, cabinet-makers, looking-glass makers, and innumerable
trades which depend upon such as these;--I say, the master-
workmen in such stopped their work, dismissed their joumey-
men and workmen, and all their de endents.

2. As merchandising was at a stop, for very few ships
ventured to come up the river, and none at all went out, so
all the extraordinary officers of the customs, likewise the

watermen, carmen, porters, and all the poor, whose labour ';

depended upon the merchants, were at once dismissed, and
put out of business.

3. All the tradesmen usuall employed in building or re-
pairingof houses were at a fu stop, for the eople were far
from wanting to build houses when so many ousand houses
were at once strip d of their inhabitants; so that this one
article turned all e ordinary workmen of that kind out of
business, such as bricklayers, masons, carpenters, 'oiners, plas-
terers, painters, glaziers, smiths, plumbers, and the labo -
ers depending on such.

4. As navigation was at a stop, our ships neither comin in
or going out as before, so the seamen were all out of em oy-
ment, and many of them in the last and lowest de ee ode-
tress; and with the seamen were all the several tra esmen and
workmen belonging to and de ending upon the building and
fitting out of ships, such as s ip-carpenters, caulkers, ro e-
makers, dry coopers, sailmakers, anchorsmiths, and 0 er
smiths; blockmakers, carvers,gunsmiths, ship-Chandlers, ship-
carvers, and the like. The masters of those perhaps mi ht live
upon their substance, but the traders were univers y at a
stop, and consequently all their workmen discharged. Add to
these that the river was in a manner without boats, and all or
most part of the watermen, lightermen, boat-builders, and
lighter-builders, in like manner idle and laid by.

5. All families retrenched their living as much as possible,
as well those that fied as those that stayed; so that an innumer-'
able multitude of footmen, serving-men, shopkeepers, journey- '

men, merchants' bookkeepers, and such sort 0 1e, and
especially or maid-servants, were turned off, an le friend-
less and hellgless, without employment and without habitation,
and this was really a dismal article.

I might be more particular as to this part, but it may
suffice to mention in general, all trades being stopped;
employment ceased, the labour, and by that the bread,
of the poor were cut oil; and at first indeed the cries of
the poor were most lamentable to hear, though by the
distribution of charity their misery that way was greatly
abated. Many indeed fled into the counties, but thou-
sands of them having stayed in London till nothing but
desperation sent them away, death overtook them on the
road, and they served for no better than the messengers of
death; indeed, others carrying the infection along with
them, spread it very unhappily into the remotest parts of
the kingdom.

Many of these were the miserable objects of despair
which I have mentioned before, and were removed by
the destruction which followed. These might be said to
perish, not by the infection itself, but by the consequence
of it; indeed, namely, by hunger and distress, and the
Want of all things, being without lodging, without money,
without friends, without means to get their bread, or
without any one to give it them; for many of them were
without what we call legal settlements, and so could not
claim of the parishes, and all the support they had was
by application to the magistrates for relief, which relief
was (to give the magistrates their due) carefully and
cheerfully administered, as they found it necessary, and
those that stayed behind never felt the want and distress
of that kind, which they felt who went away rigge man-
ner above noted. ; A,

Let any one who is acquainted with what multitudes
of people get their daily bread in this city by their labour,
whether artificers or mere workmen--I say, let any man
consider what must be the miserable condition of this
town if, on a sudden, they should be all turned out of
employment, that labour should cease, and wages for
work be no more.

This was the case with us at that time; and had not the
sums of money contributed in charity by well-disposed
people of every kind, as well abroad as at home, been
prodigiously great, it had not been in the power of the
Lord Mayor and sherifis to have kept the public peace.

Nor were they without apprehensions, as it was, that\ 1
desperation should push the people upon tumults, and
cause them to rifle the houses of rich men and plunder
the markets of provisions; in which case the country peo-
ple, who brought provisions very freely and boldly to j

 

town, would have been terrified from coming any more,
and the town would have sunk under an unavoidable
T famine.

' But the prudence of my Lord Mayor and the Court of
' Aldermen within the city, and of the justices of peace in
the out-parts, was such, and they were supported with
money from all parts so well, that the poor people were
kept quiet, and their wants everywhere relieved, as far
as was possible to be done.

Two things besides this contributed to prevent the mob
doing any mischief. One was, that really the rich them-
selves had not laid up stores of provisions in their houses,
as indeed they ought to have done, and which if they had
been wise enough to have done, and locked themselves
entirely up, as some few did, they had perhaps escaped
the disease better. But as it appeared they had not, so the
mob had no notion of finding stores of provisions there if
they had broken in, as it is plain they were sometimes
very near doing, and which, if they had, they had finished
the ruin of the whole city, for there were no regular hoops
to have withstood them, nor could the trained bands have
been brought together to defend the city, no men being
to be found to bear arms.

But the vigilance of the Lord Mayor and such magis-
trates as could be had (for some, even of the aldermen,
were dead, and some absent) prevented this; and they
did it by the most kind and gentle methods they could
think of, as particularly by relieving the most desperate
with money, and putting others into business, and par-

2I

450 A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR

ticularly that employment of watching houses that Were
infected and shut up. And as the number of these Were

very great, for it was said there was at one time ten thou- '

sand houses shut up, and every house had two watchmen
to guard it, viz., one by night and the other by day, this
gave opportunity to employ a very great number of poor
men at a time.

\ The women and servants that were turned off from
their places were likewise employed as nurses to tend the

\\siPSck in all places, and this took off a very great number

"'\

them.

And, which though a melancholy article in itself, yet
was a deliverance in its kind, namely, the plague, which
raged in a dreadful manner from the middle of August to
the middle of October, carried off in that time thirty or
forty thousand of these very people, which, had they been
left, would certainly have been an insufferable burden
by their poverty; that is to say, the whole city could not
have supported the expense of them, or have provided
food for them; and they would in time have been even
driven to the necessity of plundering either the city itself
or the country adjacent, to have subsisted themselves,
which would, first or last, have put the whole nation, as
well as the city, into the utmost terror and confusion.

h It was observable, then, that this calamity of the people

made them very humble; for now for about nine weeks
together there died near a thousand a day, one day with
another, even by the account of the weekly bills, which
yet, I have reason to be assured, never gave a full ac-
count, by many thousands, the confusion being such, and
the carts working in the dark when they carried the dead,
that in some places no account at all was kept, but they
worked on, the clerks and sextons not attending for weeks

"\together, and not knowing what number they carried.
 
 

This account is verified by the following bills oil-mor-
tality:-- .

or m or m
1115mm mom'-

From August 8 to August 15 . . . . 5819 3880
" " 15 " 22 . . . . 5568 4237
" " 22 " 29 . . . . 7496 6102
" " 29 to September 5 . . . 8252 6988 ._'.
" September 5 " 12 . . . 7090 0644 - ' -
" " 12 " 19 . . . 8297 7165 / '
" " 19 " 26 . . . 6460 5533 ,4
" " 26toOctober 3. . . 5720 4929 ,
" October 3 " 10. . . 5068 4327/5

 

59,870 49,705

So that the gross of the people were carried off in these
two months; for, as the whole number which was brought
in to die of the plague was but 68,590, here is 50,000 of
them, within a trifle, in two months; I say 50,000, because,
as there wants 295 in the number above, so there wants
two days [sic] of two months in the account of time.

Now, when I say that the parish oficers did not give in
a full account, or were not to be depended upon for their
account, let any one but consider how men could be exact
in such a time of dreadful distress, and when many of
them were taken sick themselves, and perhaps died in
the very time when their accounts were to be given in;

 

I mean the parish clerks, besides inferior officers; for ,

though these poor men ventured at all hazards, yet they
were far from being exempt from the common calamity,
especially if it be true that the parish of Stepney had,
within the year, 116 sextons, gravediggers, and their as>>
sistants; that is to say, bearers, bellmen, and drivers 0'!
carts for carrying OR the dead bodies. .
Indeed the work was not of a nature to allow them
leisure to take an exact tale of the dead bodies, which
were all huddled together in the dark into a pit; which
pit or trench no man could come nigh but at the utmost
peril. I observed often that in the parishes of Aldgate and
Cripplegate, Whitechapel and Stepney, there were five,
six, seven, and eight hundred in a week in the bills,
whereas, if we may believe the opinion of those that lived
in the city all the time as well as I, there died sometimes
2000 a week in those parishes; and I saw it under the hand
of one that made as strict an examination into that part
as he could, that there really died an hundred thousand
people of the plague in that one year, whereas in the
bills, the articles of the plague, it was but 68,590.

If I may be allowed to give my opinion, by what I saw
with my eyes and heard from other people that were eye-
witnesses, I do verily believe the same, viz., that there
died at least 100,000 of the plague only, besides other
distempers, and besides those which died in the fields and
highways and secret places out of the compass of the
communication, as it was called, and who were not put
down in the bills, though they really belonged to the body
of the inhabitants. It was known to us all that abundance
of poor despairing creatures who had the distemper upon
them, and were grown stupid or melancholy by their
misery, as many were, wandered away into the fields and
woods, and into secret, uncouth places, almost anywhere,
to creep into a bush or hedge and die.

The inhabitants of the villages adjacent would, in pity,
carry them food, and set it at a distance, that they might
fetch it, if they were able; and sometimes they were not
able, and the next time they went they should find the
poor wretches lie dead and the food untouched. The num-
ber of these miserable objects were many, and I know so
many that perished thus, and so exactly where, that I
believe I could go to the very place and dig their bones
up still; for the country people would go and dig a hole
at a distance from them, and then with long poles, and
hooks at the end of them, drag the bodies into these pits, *
and then throw the earth in from as far as they could 0831
it, to cover them, taking notice how the wind blew, and
so coming on that side which the seamen call to wind-
ward, that the scent of the bodies might blow from them;
and thus great numbers went out of the world, who were
never known, or any account of them taken, as well within
the bills of mortality as without.

This, indeed, I had in the main only from the relation
of others, for I seldom walked into the fields, except to-
wards Bethnal Green and Hackney, or as hereafter. But
when I did walk, I always saw a great many poor wan-
derers at a distance; but I could know little of their cases,
for whether it were in the street or in the fields, if we had
seen anybody coming, it was a general method to walk
away; yet I believe the account is exactly true.

As this puts me upon mentioning my walking the streets
and fields, I cannot omit taking notice what a desolate
place the city was at that time. The great street I lived
in, which is known to be one of the broadest of all the
streets of London, I mean of the suburbs as well as the
liberties, all the side where the butchers lived, especially
without the bars, was more like a green field than a paved
street, and the people generally went in the middle with
the horses and carts. It is true that the farthest end to-
wards Whitechapel Church was not all paved, but even
the part that was paved was full of grass also; but this
need not seem strange, since the great streets within the
city, such as Leadenhall Street, Bishopsgate Street, Com-
hill, and even the Exchange itself, had grass growing in
them in several places; neither cart or coach were seen in
the streets from morning to evening, except some country
carts to bring roots and beans, or peas, hay, and straw, to
the market, and those but very few compared to what
was usual. As for coaches, they were scarce used but to
carry sick people to the pest-house, and to other hos-
pitals, and some few to carry physicians to such places
as they thought fit to venture to visit; for really coaches
were dangerous things, and people did not care to venture
into them, because they did not know who might have
been carried in them last, and sick, infected people were,
as I have said, ordinarily carried in them to the pest-
houses, and sometimes people expired in them as they
went along.
It is true, when the infection came to such a height as I
have now mentioned, there were very few physicians
which cared to stir abroad to sick houses, and very many
' of the most eminent of the faculty were dead, as well as
" the surgeons also; for now it was indeed a dismal time,
'\ and for about a month together, not taking any notice of
the bills of mortality, I believed there did not die less
\than 1500 or 1700 a day, one day with another.

One of the worst days we had in the whole time, as I
thought, was in the beginning of September, when, in-
deed, good people began to think that God was resolved
to make a full end of the people in this miserable city.
This was at that time when the plague was fully come into
the eastern parishes. The parish of Aldgate, if'I may give
my opinion, buried above a thousand a week for two
weeks, though the bills did not say so many;--but it sur-
rounded me at so dismal a rate that there was not a house
in twenty uninfected in the Minories, in Houndsditch,
and in those parts of Aldgate parish about the Butcher
Row and the alleys over against me. I say, in those places
death reigned in every corner. Whitechapel parish was in
the same condition, and though much less than the parish
I lived in, yet buried near 600 a week by the bills, and in
my opinion near twice as many. Whole families, and in-
deed whole streets of families, were swept away together;
insomuch that it was frequent for neighbours to call to
the bellman to go to such-and-such houses and fetch out
the people, for that they were all dead.

And, indeed, the work of removing the dead bodies by
carts was now grown so very odious and dangerous that
it was complained of that the bearers did not take care
to clear such houses where all the inhabitants were dead,
but that sometimes the bodies lay several days unburied,
till the neighbouring families were ofiended with the
stench, and consequently infected; and this neglect of the
officers was such that the churchwardens and constab
were summoned to look after it, and even the justices of
the Hamlets were obliged to venture their lives among
them to quicken and encourage them, for innumerable of
the bearers died of the distemper, infected by the bodies
they were obliged to come so near. And had it not been
that the number of poor people who wanted employment
and wanted bread (as I have said before) was so great
that necessity drove them to undertake anything and ven-
ture anything, they would never have found people to be

employed. And then the bodies of the dead would have '

lain above ground, and have perished and rotted in a
dreadful manner.

But the magistrates cannot be enough commended in
this, that they kept such good order for the burying of
the dead, that as fast as any of those they employed to
carry off and bury the dead fell sick or died, as was many
times the case, they immediately supplied the places with
others, which, by reason of the great number of poor that
was left out of business, as above, was not hard to do.
This occasioned, that notwithstanding the infinite num-
ber of people which died and were sick, almost all to-
gether, yet they were always cleared away and carried

  

 

~
- - Hrs-4'.
if OE every night, so that it was never to be said of London
t that the living were not able to bury the dead.

"a," As the desolation was greater during those terrible
times, so the amazement of the people increased, and a
thousand unaccountable things they would do in the vio-
lence of their fright, as others did the same in the agonies
of their distemper, and this part was very affecting. Some
went roaring and crying and wringing their hands along
the street; some would go praying and lifting up their
hands to heaven, calling upon God for mercy. I cannot
say, indeed, whether this was not in their distraction, but,
be it so, it was still an indication of a more serious mind,
when they had the use of their senses, and was much bet-
ter, even as it was, than the frightful yellings and cryings
that every day, and especially in the evenings, were heard
in some streets. I suppose the world has heard of the
famous Solomon Eagle, an enthusiast. He, though not
infected at all but in his head, went about denouncing
of judgment upon the city in a frightful manner, some-
times quite naked, and with a pan of burning charcoal on
his head. What he said, or pretended, indeed I could not
learn.

I will not say whether that clergyman was distracted
or not, or whether he did it in pure zeal for the poor
people, who went every evening through the streets of
Whitechapel, and, with his hands lifted up, repeated that
part of the Liturgy of the Church continually, "Spare us,
good Lord; spare Thy people, whom Thou hast redeemed
with Thy most precious blood." I say, I cannot speak posi-
tively of these things, because these were only the dismal
objects which represented themselves to me as I looked
through my chamber windows (for I seldom opened the
easements), while I confined myself within doors during
that most violent raging of the pestilence; when, indeed,
as I have said, many began to think, and even to say, that
there would none escape; and indeed I began to think so
too, and therefore kept within doors for about a fortnight,
and never stirred out. But I could not hold it. Besides,
there were some people who, notwithstanding the danger,
did not omit publicly to attend the worship of God, even
in the most dangerous times; and though it is true that
a great many clergymen did shut up their churches, an
fled, as other people did, for the safety of their lives, yet
all did not do so. Some ventured to ofliciate and to keep
up the assemblies of the people by constant prayers, and
sometimes sermons or brief exhortations to repentance
and reformation, and this as long as any would come to
hear them. And Dissenters did the like also, and even in
the very churches where the parish ministers were either
dead or fled; nor was there any room for making differ-
ence at such a time as this was.

It was indeed a lamentable thing to hear the miserable
lamentations of poor dying creatures calling out for min-
isters to comfort them and pray with them, to counsel
them and to direct them, calling out to God for pardon
and mercy, and confessing aloud their past sins. It would
make the stoutest heart bleed to hear how many warn-
ings were then given by dying penitents to others not to
put off and delay their repentance to the day of distress;
that such a time of calamity as this was no time for re-
pentance, was no time to call upon God. I wish I could
repeat the very sound of those groans and of those ex-
clamations that I heard from some poor dying creatures
when in the height of their agonies and distress, and that
I could make him that reads this hear, as I imagine I now
hear them, for the sound seems still to ring in my ears.

If I could but tell this part in such moving accents as
should alarm the very soul of the reader, I should rejoice

that I recorded those things, however short and imper-
fect. -

J

1 <<flam- uan' '
It pleased God that I was still spared, and very hearty
and sound in health, but very impatient of being pent up
within doors without air, as I have been for fourteen days
or thereabouts, and I could not restrain myself, but I
would go to carry a letter for my brother to the post-
house. Then it was indeed that I observed a profound
silence in the streets. When I came to the post-house, as
I went to put in my letter, I saw a man standing in one
corner of the yard and talking to another at a window,
and a third had opened a door belonging to the office. In
the middle of the yard lay a small leather purse with two
keys hanging at it, with money in it, but nobody would
meddle with it. I asked how long it had lain there; the
man at the window said it had lain almost an hour, but
that they had not meddled with it, because they did not
know but the person who dropped it might come back
to look for it. I had no such need of money, nor was the
sum so big that I had any inclination to meddle with it,
or to get the money at the hazard it might be attended
with; so I seemed to go away, when the man who had
opened the door said he would take it up, but so that if
the right owner came for it he should be sure to have it.
So he went in and fetched a pail of water, and set it down
hard by the purse, then went again and fetched some gun-
powder, and cast a good deal of powder upon the purse,
and then made a train from that which he had thrown
loose upon the purse. The train reached about two yards.
After this he goes in a third time and fetches out a pair
of tongs red hot, and which he had prepared, I suppose,
on purpose, and first setting fire to the train of powder,
that signed the purse, and also smoked the air sufficiently.
But he was not content with that, but he then takes up
the purse with the tongs, holding it so long till the tongs
\burnt through the purse, and then he shook the money
out into the pail of water, so he carried it in. The money,
as I remember, was about thirteen shillings and some
smooth groats and brass farthings.

There might perhaps have been several poor pe0ple, as
I have observed above, that would have been hardy
enough to have ventured for the sake of the money; but
you may easily see by what I have observed that the few
People who were spared were very careful of themselves
at that time when the distress was so exceeding great.

Much about the same time I walked out into the fields
towards Bow; for I had a great mind to see how things
were managed in the river and among the ships; and as I
had some concern in shipping, I had a notion that it had
been one of the best ways of securing one's self from the
infection to have retired into a ship; and musing how to
satisfy my curiosity in that point, I turned away over the
fields from Bow to Bromley, and down to Blackwall to
the stairs, which are there for landing or taking water.

Here I saw.a poor man walking on the bank, or sea-
wall, as they call it, by himself. I walked a while also
about, seeing the houses all shut up. At last I fell into
some talk, at a distance, with this poor man; first I asked
him how people did thereabouts. "Alas, sirl" says he, "al-
most desolate; all dead or sick. Here are very few families
in this part, or in that village" (pointing at Poplar),
"where half of them are not dead already, and the rest
sick." Then he pointing to one house, "There they are all
dead," said he, "and the house stands open; nobody dares
go into it. A poor thief," says he, "ventured in to steal
something, but he paid dear for his theft, for he was
carried to the churchyard too last night." Then he pointed
to several other houses. "There," says he, "they are all
dead, the man and his wife, and five children. There,"
says he, "they are shut up; you see a watchman at the
door;" and so of other houses. "Why," says I, "what do-
you here all alone?" "Why," says he, "I am a poor, deso-
late man; it has pleased God I am not yet visited, though
my family is, and one of my children dead." "How do yon
mean, then," said I, "that you are not visited?" "Why,"
says he, "that's my house" (pointing to a very little, low-
boarded house), "and there my poor wife and two chil-
dren live," said he, "if they may be said to live, for my
wife and one of the children are visited, but I do not come
at them." And with that word I saw the tears run very
plentifully down his face; and so they did down mine
too, I assure you.

"But," said I, "why do you not come at them? How
can you abandon your own flesh and blood?" "Oh, sir,"
says he, "the Lord forbid! I do not abandon them; I work
for them as much as I am able; and, blessed be the Lord,
I keep them from want;" and with that I observed he
lifted up his eyes to heaven, with a countenance that
presently told me I had happened on a man that was no
hypocrite, but a serious, religious, good man, and his
ejaculation was an expression of thankfulness that, in
such a condition as he was in, he should be able to say
his family did not want. "Well," says I, "honest man,
that is a great mercy as things go now with the poor. But
how do you live, then, and how are you kept from the
dreadful calamity that is now upon us all?" "Why, sir,"
says he, "I am a watchman, and there's my boat," says he,
"and the boat serves me for a house. I work in it in the
day, and I sleep in it in the night; and what I get I lay
down upon that stone," says he, showing me a broad
stone on the other side of the street, a good way from his
house; "and then," says he, "I halloo, and call to them
till I make them hear; and they come and fetch it."

"VVeIl, friend," says I, "but how can you get any money
as a waterman? Does anybody go by water these times?"
"Yes, sir," says he, "in the way I am employed there does.
Do you see there," says he, "five ships lie at anchor"
A JOURNAL OF'THE PLAGUE YEAR - 461

(pointing down the river a good way below the town),
"and do you see," says he, "eight or ten ships lie at the
chain there, and at anchor yonder?" (pointing above the
town). "All those ships have families on board, of their
merchants and owners, and such-like, who have locked
themselves up and live on board, close shut in, for fear
of the infection; and I tend on them to fetch things for
them, carry letters, and do what is absolutely necessary,
that they may not be obliged to come on shore; and every
night I fasten my boat on board one of the ship's boats,
and there I sleep by myself, and, blessed be God, I am
preserved hitherto."

"Well," said I, "friend, but will they let you come on
board after you have been on shore here, when this is
such a terrible place, and so infected as it is?"

"Why, as to that," said he, "I very seldom go up'the
ship-side, but deliver what I bring to their boat, or lie by
the side, and they hoist it on board. If I did, I think they
are in no danger from me, for I never go into any house
on shore, or touch anybody, no, not of my own family;
but I fetch provisions for them."

"Nay," says I, "but that may be worse, for you must
have those provisions of somebody or other; and since all
this part of the town is so infected, it is dangerous so
much as to speak with anybody, for the village," said I,
"is, as it were, the beginning of London, though it be at
some distance from it."

"That is true," added be; "but you do not understand
me right; I do not buy provisions for them here. I row
up to Greenwich and buy fresh meat there, and some-
times I row down the river to Woolwich and buy there;
then I go to single farm-houses on the Kentish side, where
I am known, and buy fowls and eggs and butter, and
bring to the ships, as they direct me, sometimes one,
sometimes the other. I seldom come on shore here, and I
came now only to call to my wife and hear how my little
family do, and give them a little money, which I received
last night." A

"Poor man!" said I; "and how much hast thou gotten
for them?"

"I have gotten four shillings," said he, "which is a great
sum, as things go now with poor men; but they have given
me a bag of bread too, and a salt fish and some flesh; so
all helps out."

"Well," said I, "and have you given it them yet?"

"No," said be; "but I have called, and my wife has
answered that she cannot come out yet, but in half-an-
hour she hopes to come, and I am waiting for her. Poor
woman!" says he, "she is brOught sadly down. She has a
swelling, and it is broke, and I hope she will recover; but
I fear the child will die, but it is the Lord "

Here he stopped, and wept very much.

"Well, honest friend," said I, "thou hast a sure Com-
forter, if thou hast brought thyself to he resigned to the
will of God; He is dealing with us all in judgment."

"Oh, sir!" says he, "it is infinite mercy if any of us are
spared, and who am I to repine!" ;

"Sayest thou so?" said I, "and how much liass is my
faith than thine?" And here my heart smote me, suggest-
ing how much better this poor man's foundation was on
which he stayed in the danger than mine; that he had
nowhere to fly; that he had a family to bind him to at-
tendance, which I had not; and mine was mere presump-
tion, his a true dependence, and a courage resting on
God; and yet that he used all possible caution for his
safety.

I turned a little way from the man while these thoughts
engaged me, for, indeed, I could no more refrain from
tears than he.

At length, after some further talk, the poor woman
opened the door and called, "Robert, Robert." He an-
swered, and bid her stay a few moments and he would
come; so he ran down the common stairs to his boat and
fetched up a sack, in which was the provisions he had
brought from the ships; and when he returned he hal-
looed again. Then he went to the great stone which he
showed me and emptied the sack, and laid all out, every-
thing by themselves, and then retired; and his wife came
with a little boy to fetch them away, and he called and
said such a captain had sent such a thing, and such a cap-
tain such a thing, and at the end adds, "God has sent it
all; give thanks to Him." When the poor woman had
taken up all, she was so weak she could not carry it at
once in, though the weight was not much neither; so she
left the biscuit which was in a little bag, and left a little
boy to watch it till she came again.

"Well, but," says I to him, "did you leave her the four.
shillings too, which you said was your week's pay?"

"Yes, yes," says he; "you shall hear her own it." so he
calls again, "Rachel, Rachel," which, it seems, was her
name, "did you take up the money?" "Yes," said she.
"How much was it?" said he. "Four shillings and a groat,"
said she. "Well, well," says he, "the Lord keep you all;"
and so he turned to go away. _

As I could not refrain contributing tears to this man's
story, so neither could I refrain my charity for his assist-
ance. So I called him, "Hark thee, friend," said I, "come
hither, for I believe thou art in health, that I may venture
thee," so I pulled out my hand, which was in my pocket
before, "Here," says I, "go and call thy Rachel 'once
more, and give her a little more comfort from me. God
will never forsake a family that trust in Him as thou
dost." So I gave him four other shillings, and bid him go
lay them on the stone and call his wife.

I had not words to express the poor man's thankfulness,
neither could he express it himself but by tears running
down his face. He called his wife, and told her God had
moved the heart of a stranger, upon hearing their con-
dition, to give them all that money, and a great deal
more such as that he said to her. The woman, too, made
signs of the like thankfulness, as well to Heaven as to
me, and joyfully picked it up; and I parted with no money
all that year that I thought better bestowed.

I then asked the poor man if the distemper had not
reached to Greenwich. He said it had not till about a
fortnight before; but that then he feared it had, but that
it was only at that end of the town' which lay south to-
wards Deptford Bridge; that he went only to a butcher's
shop and a grocer's, where he generally bought such
things as they sent him for, but was very careful.

I asked him then how it came to pass that those people
who had so shut themselves up in the ships had not laid
in sufficient stores of all things necessary. He said some
of them had, but, on the other hand, some did not come
on board till they were frighted into it, and till it was too
dangerous for them to go to the proper people to lay in
quantities of things, and that he waited on two ships,
which he showed me, that had laid in little or nothing
but biscuit bread and ship beer, and that he had bought
everything else almost for them. I asked him if there was
any more ships that had separated themselves as those
had done. He told me yes, all the way up from the point,
right against Greenwich, to within the shore of Lime--
house and Redriff, all the ships that could have room rid
two and two in the middle of the stream, and that some
of them had several families on board. I asked him if the
distemper had not reached them. He said he believed it
had not, except two or three ships, whose people had not
been so watchful to keep the seamen from going on shore,
as others had been, and he said it was a very fine sight to
see how the ships lay up the Pool.

When he said he was going over to Greenwich as soon
as the tide began to come in, I asked if he would let me
go with him, and bring me back, for that I had a great
mind to see how the ships were ranged, as he had told
me. He told me, if I would assure him on the word of a
Christian and of an honest man, that I had not the dis-
temper, he would. I assured him that I had not; that it
had pleased God to preserve me; that I lived in White-'
chapel, but was too impatient of being so long within
doors, and that I had ventured out so far for the refresh-
ment of a little air, but that none in my house had so
much as been touched with it.

"Well, sir," says he, "as your charity has been moved to
.pity me and my poor family, sure you cannot have so
little pity left as to put yourself into my boat if you were
not sound in health, which would be nothing less than
killing me, and mining my whole family." The poor man
troubled me so much when he spoke of his family with
Such a sensible concern, and in such an affectionate man-
ner, that I could not satisfy myself at first to go at all. I
told him I would lay aside my curiosity rather than make
him uneasy, though I was sure, and very thankful for it,
that I had no more distemper upon me than the freshest
man in the world. Well, he would not have me put it off
neither, but, to let me see how confident he was that I
was just to him, now importuned me to go; so when the
tide came up to his boat I went in, and he carried me to
Greenwich. While he bought the things which he had in
his charge to buy, I walked up to the top of the hill under
which the town stands, and on the east side of the town,
to get a prospect of the river. But it was a surprising sight
to see the number of ships which lay in rows, two and
two, and some places two or three such lines in the
breadth of the river, and this not only up quite to the
town, between the houses which we call Ratcliif and
Redriif, which they name the Pool, but even down the
whole river, as far as the head of Long Beach, which is as
far as the hills give us leave to see it.

I cannot guess at the number of ships, but I think there
must be several hundreds of sail; and I could not but
applaud the contrivance, for ten thousand people, and
more, who attended ship affairs were certainly sheltered
here from the violence of the contagion, and lived very
safe and very easy.

I returned to my own dwelling very well satisfied with
my day's journey, and particularly with the poor man;
also, I rejoiced to see that such little sanctuaries were
provided for so many families in a time of such desola-
tion. I observed also, that as the violence of the plague
had increased, so the ships which had families on board
removed and went farther off, till, as I was told, some
went quite away to sea, and put into such harbours
and safe roads on the north coast as they could best
come at.

But it was also true that all the people who thus left the
land and lived on board the ships were not entirely safe
from the infection, for many died and were thrown over-
board into the river, some in coffins, and some, as I heard,
without coffins, whose bodies were seen sometimes to
drive up and down with the tide in the river.

But I believe I may venture to say that in those ships
which were thus infected it either happened where the
people had recourse to them too late, and did not fly to
the ship till they had stayed too long on shore and had
the distemper upon them, though perhaps they might not
perceive it, and so the distemper did not come to them
on board the ships, but they really carried it with them;
or it was in these ships where the poor waterman said
they had not had time to furnish themselves with provi-
sions, but were obliged to send often on shore to buy
what they had occasion for, or suffered boats to come to
them from the shore. And so the distemper was brought
insensibly among them.

And here I cannot but take notice that the strange
temper of the people of London at that time contributed
extremely to their own destruction. The plague began, as
I have observed, at the other end of the town, namely, in
Long Acre, Drury Lane, &c., and came on towards the
city very gradually and slowly. It was felt at first in De-
cember, then again in February, then again in April, and
always but a very little at a time; then it stopped till May,
and even the last week in May there was but seventeen,
and all at that end of the town; and all this while, even
so long as till there died above 8000 a week, yet had the
people in Redriff, and in Wapping and Ratclifi, on both
sides the river, and almost all Southwark side, a mighty
fancy that they should not be visited, or at least that it
would not be so violent among them. Some people fan- ,
cied the smell of the pitch and tar, and such other things
as oil and rosin and brimstone, which is so much used by
all trades relating to shipping, would preserve them. Oth-
ers argued it, because it was in its extremest violence in
Westminster and the parish of St. Giles and St. Andrew,
&c., and began to abate again before it came among
them, which was true indeed, in part. For example--

From the 8th to the 15th August--

St. Giles-in-the--Fields . . . . . . . 242
Ctipplegate . . . . . . . . . . 886
Stepney . . . . . . . . . . . 197
St. Margaret, Bermondsey . . . . . . 24
Rotherhithe . . . . . . . . . '8

Totalthisweek... . . . . . . .4030
From the 15th to the 22nd August--
St. Giles-in-the-Fields . . . . . . . 175
Cripplegate . . . . . . . . . . 847
Stepney . . . . . . . . - . . . 273
St. Margaret, Bermondsey . . . . . . 36
Rotherhithe . . . . . . . . . . 2
Total this week . . . . . . . . . 5319

N.B.--That it was observed the numbers mentioned in
Stepney parish at that time were generally all on that
side where Stepney parish joined to Shoreditch, which
we now call Spitalfields, where the parish of Stepney
comes up to the very wall of Shoreditch Churchyard, and
the plague at this time was abated at St. Ciles-in-the-
Fields, and raged most violently in Cripplegate,.Bishops-
gate, and Shoreditch parishes; but there was not ten
people a week that died of it in all that part of Stepney
parish which takes in Limehouse, Ratcliflf Highway, and
which are now the parishes of Shadwell and Wapping,
even to St. Catherine's by the Tower, till after the whole
month of August was expired. But they paid for it after-
wards, as I shall observe by-and-by.

This, I say, made the people of RedriE and Wapping,
Ratcliif and Limehouse, so secure, and flatter themselves
so much with the plague's going off without reaching
them, that they took no care either to fly into the country
or shut themselves up. Nay, so far were they from stirring
that they rather received their friends and relations from
the city into their houses, and several from other places
really took sanctuary in that part of the town as a place
of safety, and as a place which they thought God would
pass over, and not visit as the rest was visited.

And this was the reason that when it came upon them
they were more surprised, more unprovided, and more at
a loss what to do than they were in other places; for when
it came among them really and with violence, as it did
indeed in September and October, there was then no stir-
ring out into the country, nobody would suffer a strangeru

A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 469

to come near them, no, nor near the towns where they
dwelt; and, as I have been told, several that wandered
into the country on Surrey side were found starved to
death in the woods and commons, that country being
more open and more woody than any other part so near
London, especially about Norwood and the parishes of
Camberwell, Dulwich, and Lusum, where, it seems, no-
body durst relieve the poor distressed people for fear of
the infection. '

This notion having, as I said, prevailed with the people
in that part of the town, was in part the occasion, as I
said before, that-they had recourse to ships for their re--
treat; and where they did this early and with prudence,
furnishing themselves so with provisions that they had
no need to go on shore for supplies or suffer boats to
come on board to bring them,--I say, where they did so
they had certame the safest retreat of any people what-
sover; but the distress was such that people ran on board,
in their fright, without bread to eat, and some into ships
that had no men on board to remove them farther off, or
to take the boat and go down the river to buy provisions
where it might be done safely, and these often 'suEered
and were infected on board as much as on shore.

As the richer sort got into ships, so the lower rank got
into hoys, smacks, lighters, and fishing-boats; and many,
especially watermen, lay in their boats; but those made
sad work of it, especially the latter, for, going about for
provision, and perhaps to get their subsistence, the infec-
tion got in among them and made a fearful havoc; many
of the watermen died alone in their wherries as they n'd
at their roads, as well above bridge as below, and were
not found sometimes till they were not in condition for
anybody to touch or come near them. .

Indeed, the distress of the people at this seafaring end;
of the town was very deplorable, and deserved the- great-
est 'cor_nmiseration. But, alas! this was a time when every
one's private safety lay so near them that they had no
room to pity the distresses of others; for every one had
death, as it were, at his door, and many even in their
families, and knew not what to do or whither to fly.

This, I say, took away all compassion; self-preservation,
indeed, appeared here to be the first law. For the chil-
dren ran away from their parents as they languished in
the utmost distress. And in some places, though not so
frequent as the other, parents did the like to their chil-
dren; nay, some dreadful examples there were, and par-
ticularly two in one week, of distressed mothers, raving
and distracted, killing their own children; one whereof
was not far off from where I dwelt, the poor lunatic crea-
ture not living herself long enough to be sensible of the
sin of what she had done, much less to be punished for it.

It is not, indeed, to be wondered at, for the danger of
immediate death to ourselves took away all bowels of
love, all concern for one another. I speak in general, for
there were many instances of immovable affection, pity,
and duty in many, and some that came to my knowledge,
that is to say, by hearsay; for I shall not take upon me to
vouch the truth of the particulars. '

To introduce one, let me first mention that one of the
most deplorable cases in all the present calamity was that
of women with child, who, when they came to the hour
of their sorrows and their pains come upon them, could
neither have help of one kind or another; neither midwife
or neighbouring women to come near them. Most of the
midwives were dead, especially of such as served the
poor; and many, if not all the midwives of note, were fled
into the country; so that it was next to impossible for a
poor woman that could not pay an immoderate price to
get any midwife to come to her, and if they did, those
they could get were generally unskilful and ignorant crea-
tures; and the consequence of this was, that a most un-
usual and incredible number of women were reduced to
the utmost distress. Some were delivered and spoiled by
the rashness and ignorance of those who pretended to lay
them. Children without number were, I might say, mur-
dered by the same, but a more justifiable ignorance, pre-
tending they would save the mother, whatever became of
the child; and many times both mother and child were
lost in the same manner; and especially where the mother
had the distemper, there nobody would come near them,
and both sometimes perished. Sometimes the mother has
died of the plague, and the infant, it may be, half born,
or born but not parted from the mother. Some died in the
v'ery pains of their travail, and not delivered at all; and so
many were the cases of this kind that it is hard to judge
of them.

Something of it will appear in the unusual numbers
which are put into the weekly bills (though I am far from
allowing them to be able to give anything of a full ac-
count) under the articles of--

Child-bed.
Abortive and Still-bom.
Chrisoms and Infants.

Take the weeks in which the plague was most violent,
and compare them with the weeks before the distemper
began, even in the same year. For example:

Child- Abor- Still-
bed. tive. born.

 

From January 3 to January 10 . 7 l 13
" " 10 " l7 . 8 6 ll
" " 17 " 24 . 9 5 l5
" " 24 i " 31 . 8 2 9
" " 31 to February 7 . 3 3 8
" February 7 " l4 . 6 2 ll
" ': 14 " 21 . 5 2 18
" " 21 " 9/8 . 2 2 .10
" " 28 to March 7 . 5 l 10

48 24 '100
From' August 1 to August 8 . . 25 5 11
" " 8 " 15 . . 23 6 8

" " 15 " 22 . . 28 4 4

" " 22 " 29 . . 40 6 10

" " 29 to September 5 . 38 2 11

" September 5 to " 12 . 39 23 . .
" " 12 " 19 . 42 5 17

" " 19 " 26 . 42 6 10

" " 26 to October 3 . l4 4 9
291 61 80

To the disparity of these numbers is to be considered
and allowed for, that, according to our usual opinion who
were then upon the spot, there were not one-third of the
people in the town during the months of August and
September as were in the months of January and Febru-
ary. In a word, the usual number that used to die of these
three articles, and, as I hear, did die of them the year
before, was thus:--

1664. 1665.
Child-bed . . . . 189 Child-bed . . . . 625
Abortive and still-born . 458 Abortive and still-born . 617

647 1242

This inequality, I say, is exceedingly augmented when
the numbers of people are considered. I pretend not to
make any exact calculation of the numbers of people
which were at this time in the city, but I shall make a
probable conjecture at that part by-and-by. What I have
said now is to explain the misery of those poor creatures
Woe be to those who are with child, and to those which
above, so that it might well be said, as in the Scripture,
give suck in that day. For, indeed, it was a woe to them in
parficular.
I was not conversant in many particular families" where
these things happened, but the outcries of the miserable
were heard afar off. As to those who were with child, we '
have seen some calculation made; 291 women dead in
child-bed in nine weeks, out of one-third part of the num-
ber of whom there usually died in that time but eighty-
four of the same disaster. Let the reader calculate the
proportion.

There is no room to doubt but the misery of those that
gave suck was in proportion as great. Our bills of mor-
tality could give but little light in this, yet some it did.
There were several more than usual starved at nurse, but
this was nothing. The misery was where they were, first,
starved for want of a nurse, the mother dying, and all the
family and the infants found dead by them, merely for
want; and, if I may speak my opinion, I do believe that
many hundreds of poor helpless infants perished in this
manner. Secondly, not starved, but poisoned by the nurse.
Nay, even where the mother has been nurse, and having
received the infection, has poisoned, that is, infected the
infant with her milk, even before they knew they were
infected themselves; nay, and the infant has died in such
a case before the mother. I cannot but remember to leave
this admonition upon record, if ever such another dread-
ful visitation should happen in this city, that all women
that are with child or that give suck should be gone, if
they have any possible means, out of the place, because
their misery, if infected, will so much exceed all other
people's. ' '

I could tell here dismal stories of living infants being
found sucking the breasts of their mothers, or nurses, after
they have been dead of the plague. Of a mother in the
parish where I lived, who, having a child that was not
well, sent for an apothecary to view the child; and when
he came, as the relation goes, was giving the child sucle
at her breast, and to all appearance was herself very well;
but when the apothecary came close to her he saw the
tokens upon that breast with which she was suckling the
child. He was surprised enough, to be sure, but, not will-
ing to fright the poor woman too much, he desired she
would give the child into his hand; so he takes the child,
and going to a cradle in the room, lays it in, and opening
its cloths, found the tokens upon the child too, and both
died before he could get home to send a preventive medi-
cine to the father of the child, to whom he had told their
condition. Whether the child infected the nurse-mother
or the mother the child was not certain, but the last most
likely. Likewise of a child brought home to the parents
from a nurse that had died of the plague, yet the tender
mother would not refuse to take in her child, and laid it
in her bosom, by which she was infected, and died with
the child in her arms dead also.

It would make the hardest heart move at the instances
that were frequently found of tender mothers tending and
watching with their dear children, and even dying before
them, and sometimes taking the distemper from them and
dying, when the child for whom the affectionate heart
had been sacrificed has got over it and escaped.

The like of a tradesman in East Smithfield, whose wife
was big with child of her first child, and fell in labour,
having the plague upon her. He could neither get mid-
wife to assist her or nurse to tend her, and two servants
which he kept fled both from her. He ran from house to
house like one distracted, but could get no help; the ut-
most he could get was, that a watchman, who attended
at an infected house shut up, promised to send a nurse in
the morning. The poor man, with his heart broke, went
back, assisted his wife what he could, acted the part of
the midwife, brought the child dead into the world, and
his wife in about an hour died in his arms, where he held
her dead body fast till the morning, when the watchman
came and brought the nurse as he had promised; and
coming up the stairs, for he had left the door open, or
only latched, they found the man sitting with his dead
wife in his arms, and so over-whelmed with grief that
he died in a few hours after, without any sign of the in-
fection upon him, but merely sank under the weight of
his grief.

I have heard also of some who, on the death of their
relations, have grown stupid with the insupportable sor-
row, and of one in particular, who was so absolutely 'over-
come with the pressure upon his spirits that by degrees
his head sank into his body, so between his shoulders,
that the crown of his head was very little seen above the
bone of his shoulders; and by degrees, losing both voice
and sense, his face, looking forward, lay against his collar-
bone, .and could not be kept up any otherwise, unless
held up by the hands of other people; and the poor man
never came to himself again, but languished near a year
in that condition, and died. Nor was he ever once seen to
lift up his eyes or to look upon any particular object.

I cannot undertake to give any other than a summary
of such passages as these, because it was not possible to
come at the particulars, where sometimes the whole fam-
ilies where such things happened were carried off by the
distemper. But there were innumerable cases of this kind
which presented to the eye and the ear, even in passing
along the streets, as I have hinted above. Nor is it easy to
give any story of this or that family which there was not
divers parallel stories to be met with of the same kind.

But as I am now talking of the time when the plague
raged at the easternmost part of the town, how for a long
time the people of those parts had flattered themselves
that they should escape, and how they were surprised
when it came upon them as it did; for, indeed, it came
upon them like an armed man when it'did come;--I say,
this brings me back to the three poor men who wandered
from Wapping, not knowing whither to go or what to do,
and whom I mentioned before; one a biscuit-baker, one a
sail-maker, and the other a joiner, all of Wapping or
thereabouts.

The sleepiness and security of that part, as I have ob-
served, was such that they not only did not shift for them-
selves as others did, but they boasted of being safe, and
of safety being with them; and many people fled out of
the city, and out of the infected suburbs, to Wapping,
Ratcliff, Limehouse, Poplar, and such places, as to places
of security; and it is not at all unlikely that their doing
this helped to bring the plague that way faster than it
might otherwise have come. For though I am much for
people flying away, and emptying such a town as this,
upon the first appearance of a like visitation, and that all
people who have any possible retreat should make use of
it in time, and be gone, yet I must say, when all that will
fly are gone, those that are left, and must stand it, should
stand stock-still where they are, and not shift from one
end of the town or one part of the town to the other; for
that is the bane and mischief of the whole, and they carry
the plague from house to house in their very clothes.

Wherefore were we ordered to kill all the dogs and
cats, but because as they were domestic animals, and are
apt to run from house to house, and from street to street,
so they are capable of carrying the efHuvia or infectious
steams of bodies infected even in their furs and hair. And
therefore it was that, in the beginning of the infection, an
order was published by the Lord Mayor, and by the mag-
istrates, according to the advice of the physicians, that all
the dogs and cats should be immediately killed, and an
officer was appointed for the execution.

It is incredible, if their account is to be depended upon,
what a prodigious number of those creatures were de-
stroyed. I think they talked of forty thousand dogs, and
five times as many cats, few houses being without a cat, _
some having several, sometimes five or six in a house. All
possible endeavours were used, also, to destroy the mice
and rats, especially the latter, by laying ratsbane and
other poisons for them, and a prodigious multitude of
them were also destroyed.

I often reflected upon the unprovided condition that
the whole body of the people were in at the first coming
of this calamity upon them, and how it was for want of
timely entering into measures and managements, as well
public as private, that all the confusions that followed
were brought upon us, and that such a prodigious number
of people sank in that disaster, which, if proper steps had
been taken, might, Providence concurring, have been
avoided, and which, if posterity think fit, they may take a
caution and warning from. But I shall come to this part
agam.

I come back to my three men. Their story has a moral
in every part of it, and their whole conduct, and that of
some whom they joined with, is a pattern for all poor men
to follow, or women either, if ever such a time comes
again; and if there was no other end in recording it, I
think this a very just one, whether my account be exactly
according to fact or no. .

Two of them are said to be brothers, the one an old
soldier, but now a biscuit-baker; the other a lame sailor, '
but now a sailmaker; the third 3 joiner. Says John the
biscuit-baker one day to Thomas his brother, the sail-
maker, "Brother Tom, what will become of us? The
plague grows hot in the city, and increases this way.
What shall we do?"

"Truly," says Thomas, "I am at a great loss what to do',
for I find if it comes down into Wapping I shall be turned
out of my lodging." And thus they began to talk of it be-
forehand.

JOHN: Turned out of your lodging, Toml If you are, I
don't know who will take you in; for people are so afraid
of one another now, there's no getting a lodging any-
where.

THOMAS: Why, the people where I lodge are good, civil
people, and have kindness enough for me too; but they
say I go abroad every day to my work, and it will be
dangerous; and they talk of locking themselves up and
letting nobody come near them.

101m: Why, they are in the right, to be sure, if they
resolve to venture staying in town.

THOMAS: Nay, I might even resolve to stay within doors
too, for, except a suit of sails that my master has in
hand, and which I am just finishing, I am like to get no
more work a great while. There's no trade stirs now.
Workmen and servants are turned off everywhere, so that
I might be glad to be locked up too; but I do not see they
will be willing to consent to that, any more than to the
other.

JOHN: Why, what will you do then, brother? And what
shall I do? for I am almost as bad as you. The pe0ple
where I lodge are all gone into the country but a maid,
and she is to go next week, and to shut the house quite
up, so that I shall be turned adrift to the wide world be-
fore you, and I am resolved to go away too, if I knew but
where to go. . _

THOMAS: We were both distracted we did not go away
at first; then we might have travelled anywhere. There's
no stirring now; we shall be starved if we pretend to go
out of town. They won't let us have victuals, no, not for

our money, nor let us come into the towns, much less into
their houses.
JOHN: And that which is' almost as bad, I have but lit-
tle money to help myself with neither.

THOMAS: As to that, we might make shift. I have a lit-
tle, though not much; but I tell you there's no stirring on
the road. I know a couple of poor honest men in our
street have attempted to travel, and at Bamet, or Whet-
stone, or thereabout, the people offered to fire at them if
they pretended to go forward, so they are come back
again quite discouraged.

JOHN: I would have ventured their fire if I had been ,
there. If I had been denied food for my money they
should have seen me take it before their faces, and if I
had tendered money for it they could not have taken any
course with me by law.

THOMAS: You talk your old soldier's language, as if you
were in the Low Countries now, but this is a serious
thing. The people have good reason to keep anybody oil
that they are not satisfied are sound, at such a time as
this, and we must not plunder them.

JOHN: No, brother, you mistake the case, and mistake
me too. I would plunder nobody; but for any town upon
the road to deny me leave to pass through the town in the
open highway, and deny me provisions for my money, is
to say the town has a right to starve me to death, which
cannot be true.

THOMAS: But they do not deny you liberty to go back
again from whence you came, and therefore they do not
starve you.

JOHN: But the next town behind me will, by the same
rule, deny me leave to go back, and so they do starve me
between them. Besides, there is no law to prohibit my
travelling wherever I will on the road.

moms: But there will be so much difficulty in dis-
puting with them at every town on the road that it is not
for poor men to do it or undertake it, at such a time as this
is especially.

JOHN: Why, brother, our condition at this rate is worse
than anybody else's, for we can neither go away nor stay
here. I am of the same mind with the lepers of Samaria.
If we stay here we are sure to die; I mean especially as
you and I are stated, without a dwelling-house of our
own, and without lodging in anybody else's. There is no '
lying in the street at such a time as this; we had as good
go into the dead-cart at once. Therefore I say, if we stay
here we are sure to die, and if we go away we can but die;
I am resolved to be gone.

THOMAS: You will go away. Whither will you go, and
what can you do? I would as willingly go away as you, if
I knew whither. But we have no acquaintance, no friends.
Here we were born, and here we must die.

JOHN: Look you, Tom, the whole kingdom is my native
country as well as this town. You may as well say I must
not go out of my house if it is on fire as that I must not go
out of the town I was born in when it is infected with
the plague. I was born in England, and have a right to
live in it if I can.

THOMAS: But you know every vagrant person may, by
the laws of England, be taken up, and passed back to
their last legal settlement.

JOHN: But how shall they make me vagrant? I desire
only to travel on, upon my lawful occasions.

THOMAS: What lawful occasions can we pretend to
travel, or rather wander upon? They will not be put off
with words.

JOHN: Is not flying to save our lives a lawful occasion?
And do they not all know that the fact is true? We cannot
be said to dissemble.

THOMAS: But suppose they let us pass, whither Shall
we go?
JOHN: Anywhere to save our lives; it is time enough to
consider that when we are got out of this town. If I am
once out of this dreadful place, I care not where I go.

THOMAS: We shall be driven to great extremities. I
know not what to think of it.

JOHN: Well, Tom, consider of it a little.

This was about the beginning of July; and though the
plague was come forward in the west and north parts of '
the town, yet all Wapping, as I have observed before, and
Redriff, and Batclifi, and Limehouse, and Poplar, in short,
Deptford and Greenwich, all both sides of the river from
the Hermitage, and from over against it, quite down to
Blackwall, was entirely free; there'had not one person
died of the plague in all Stepney parish, and not one on
the south side of Whitechapel Road, no, not in any par-
ish; and yet the weekly bill was that very week risen up
to 1006.

It was a fortnight after this before the two brothers met
again, and then the case was a little altered, and the
plague was exceedingly advaneed and the number greatly
increased; the bill was up at 2785, and prodigiously in-
creasing, though still both sides of the river, as below,
kept pretty well. But some began to die in Redn'if, and
about five or six in Ratcliif Highway, when the sailmaker
came to his brother John express, and in some fright; for
he was absolutely warned out of his lodging, and had
only a week to provide himself. His brother John was in
as bad a case, for he was quiet out, and had only begged
leave of his master, the biscuit-baker, to lodge in an out-
house belonging to his work-house, where he Only lay
upon stray, with some biscuit-sacks, or bread-sacks, as
they called them, laid upon it, and some of the same sacks
to cover him.

Here they resolved, seeing all employment being at an
end, and no work orwages to be had, they would make
the best of their way to get out of the reach of the dread-
ful infection, and, being as good husbands as they could,
would endeavour to live upon what they had as long as it
would last, and then work for more, if they could get
work anywhere, of any kind, let it be what it would.

While they were considering to put this resolution in
practice in the best manner they could, the third man,
who was acquainted very well with the sailmaker, came
to know of the design, and got leave to be one of the
number; and thus they prepared to set out.

It happened that they had not an equal share of money,
but as the sailmaker, who had the best stock, was, besides
his being lame, the most unfit to expect to get anything
by working in the country, so he was content that what
money they had should all go into one public stock, on
condition that whatever any one of them could gain more
than another, it should, without any grudging, be all
added to the public stock.

They resolved to load themselves with as little bag-
gage as possible, because they resolved at first to travel
on foot, and to go a great way, that they might, if pos-
sible, be eflectually safe; and a great many consultations
they had with themselves before they could agree about
what way they should travel, which they were so far from
adjusting that even to the morning they set out they were
not resolved on it.

At last the seaman put in a hint that determined it.
First," says he, "the weather is very hot, and therefore I
am for travelling north, that we may not have the sun
upon our faces and beating on our breasts, which will
heat and suffocate us; and I have been told," says he,
"that it is not good to overheat our blood at a time when,
for aught we know, the infection may be in the very air.
In the next place," says he, "I am for going the way that
may be contrary to the wind, as it may blow when we set

a
out, that we may not have the wind blow the air of the
city on our backs as we go." These two cautions were
approved of, if it could be brought so to hit that the wind
might not be in the south when they set out to go north.

John the baker, who had been a soldier, then put in his
opinion. "First," says he, "we none of us expect to get any
lodging onthe road, and it will be a little too hard to lie
just in the open air. Though it be warm weather, yet it
may be wet and damp, and we have a double reason to
take care of our healths at such a time as this; and there-
fore," says he, "you, brother Tom, that are a sailmaker,
might easily make us a little tent, and I will undertake
to set it up every night, and take it down, and a fig for
all the inns in England; if we have a good tent over our
heads we shall do well enough."

The joiner opposed this, and told them, let them leave
that to him; he would undertake to build them a house
every night with his hatchet and mallet, though he had
no other tools, which should be fully to their satisfaction,
and as good as a tent.

The soldier and the joiner disputed that point some
time, but at last the soldier carried it for a tent. The only
objection against it was, that it must be carried with
them, and that would increase their baggage too much,
the weather being hot; but the sailmaker had a piece of
good hap fell in which made that easy, for his master
whom he worked for, having a rope-walk as well as sail-
making trade, had a little, poor horse that he made no use
of then, and being willing to assist the three honest men,
he gave them the horse for the carrying their baggage;
also for a small matter of three days' work that his man
did for him before he went, he let him have an old top--
gallant sail that was worn out, but was sufficient and more
than enough to make a very good tent. The soldier
showed how to shape it, and they soon by his direction
made their tent, and fitted it with poles or staVes for the
purpose; and thus they were furnished for their journey,
viz., three men, one tent, one horse, one gun, for the
soldier would not go without arms, for now he said he
was no more a biscuit-baker, but a trooper.

The joiner had a small bag of tools, such as might be
useful if he should get any work abroad, as Well for their
subsistence as his own. What money they had they
brought all into one public stock, and thus they began
their journey. It seems that in the morning when they set
out the wind blew, as the sailor said, by his pocket-
compass, at N.W. by W. So they directed, or rather re-
solved to direct, their course N.W.

But then a difficulty came in their way, that, as they
set out from the hither end of Wapping, near the Hermit-
age, and that the plague was now very violent, especially
on the north side of the city, as in Shoreditch and Cripple-
gate parish, they did not think it safe for them to go near
those parts; so they went away east through Ratcliii
Highway as far as Ratcliff Cross, and leaving Stepney
Church still on their left hand, being afraid to come up
from Ratcliil Cross to Mile End, because they must come
just by the churchyard, and because the wind, that
seemed to blow more from the west, blew directly from
the side of the city where the plague was hottest. So I
say, leaving Stepney, they fetched a long compass, and
going to Poplar and Bromley, came into the great road
just at Bow. .

Here the watch placed upon Bow Bridge w0uld have
questioned them, but they, crossing the road into a nar-
row way that turns out of the hither end of the town of
Bow to Old Ford, avoided any inquiry there, and trav-
elled to Old Ford. The constables everywhere were upon
their guard, not so much, it seems, to stop people passing
by as to stop them from taking up their abode in theirtowns, and withal because of a report that was newly
raised at that time, and that, indeed, was not very iin-
probable, viz., that the poor people in London, being
distressed and starved for want of work, and _by that
means for want of bread, were up in arms and had raised
a tumult, and that they would come out to all the towns
round to plunder for bread. This, I say, was only a
rumour, and it was very well it was no more. But it was
not so far off from being a reality as it has been thought,
for in a few weeks more the poor people became so
desperate by the calamity they suffered that they were
with great difficulty kept from running out into the fields
and towns, and tearing all in pieces wherever they came;
and, as I have observed before, nothing hindered them

but that the plague raged so violently, and fell in upon '

them so furiously, that they rather went to the grave by
thousands than into the fields in mobs by thousands;
for, in the parts about the parishes of St. Sepulchre,
Clerkenwell, Cripplegate, Bishopsgate, and Shoreditch,
which were the places where the mob began to threaten,
the distemper came on so furiously that there died in
those few parishes even then, before the plague was come
to its height, no less than 5361 people in the first three
weeks in August, when, at the same time, the parts about
Wapping, Ratcliff, and Botherhithe were, as before de-
scribed, hardly touched, or but very lightly; so that, in a
word, though, as I said before, the good management of
the Lord Mayor and justices did much to prevent the
rage and desperation of the people from breaking out in
rabbles and tumults, and, in short, from the poor plunder.
ing the rich,--I say, though they did much, the dead-
carts did more, for as I have said that in five parishes
only there died about 5000 in twenty days, so there might

be probably three times that number sick all that time, . . f

for some recovered, and great numbers fell sick every day

A JOURNAL or THE, PLAGUE YEAR I485 ' '-
and died afterwards. Besides, I must still be allowed to
say that if the bills of mortality said five thousand, I a]-
ways believed it was near twice as many in reality, there
being no room to believe that the account they gave was
right, or that, indeed, they were, among such confusions
as I saw them in, in any condition to keep an exact ac-
count.

But' to return to my travellers. Here they were only
examined, and as-they seemed rather coming from the
country than from the city, they found the people the
easier with them; that they talked to them, let them
come into a public-house where the constable and his
warders were, and gave them drink and some victuals,
which greatly refreshed and encouraged them; and here
it came into their heads to say, when they should be in-
quired of afterwards, not that they came from London,
but that they came out of Essex.

To forward this little fraud, they obtained so much
favour of the constable at Old Ford as to give them a
certificate of their passing from Essex through that vil-
lage, and that they had not been at London, which,
though false in the common acceptation of London in
the county, yet was literally true, Wapping or Ratcliff
being no part either of the city or liberty.

This certificate directed to the next constable that was
at Homerton, one of the hamlets of the parish of Hack.
ney, was so serviceable to them that it procured them, not
a free passage there only, but a full certificate of health
from a justice of the peace, who, upon the constable's
application, granted it without much difficulty; and thus
they passed through the long divided town of Hackney
(for it lay then in several separated hamlets), and trav-
elled on till they came into the great north road on the
top of Stamford Hill.

By this time they began to be weary, and so in the back-
road from Hackney, a little before it opened into the said
great road, they resolved to set up their tent and encamp
for the first night, which they did accordingly, with this
addition, that finding a barn, or a building like a barn,
and first searching as well as they could to be sure there
was nobody in it, they set up their tent, with the head of
it against the barn. This they did also because the wind
blew that night very high, and they were but young at
such a way of lodging, as well as at the managing their
tent.

Here they went to sleep; but the joiner, a grave and
sober man, and not pleased with their lying at this loose
rate the first night, could not sleep, and resolved, after
trying to sleep to no purpose, that he would get out, and,
taking the gun in his hand, stand sentinel and guard his
companions. So, with the gun in his hand, he walked to
and again before the barn, for that stood in the field near
the road, but within the hedge. He had not been long
upon the scout but he heard a noise of people coming on,
as if it had been a great number, and they came on, as he
thought, directly towards the barn. He did not presently
awake his companions, but in a few minutes more, their
noise growing louder and louder, the biscuit-baker called
to him and asked him what was the matter, and quickly
started out too. The other, being the lame sailmaker and
most weary, lay still in the tent.

As they expected, so the people whom they had heard
came on directly to the barn, when one of our travellers
challenged, like soldiers upon the guard, with "Who
comes there?" The people did not answer immediately,
but one of them speaking to another that was behind
him, "Alas! alas! we are all disappointed," says he. "Here
are some people before us; the barn is taken up."

They all st0pped upon that, as under some surprise, and
it seems there was about thirteen of them in all, and some
women among them. They consulted together what they
should do, and by their discourse our travellers soon
found they were poor, distressed people too, like them
selves, seeking shelter and safety; and besides, our trav-
ellers had no need to be afraid of their coming up to
disturb them, for as soon as they heard the words, "Who
comes there?" these could hear the women say, as if
frighted, "Do not go near them. How do you know but
they may have the plague?" And when one of the men
said, "Let us but speak to them," the women said, "No,
don't by any means. We have escaped thus far by the
goodness of God; do not let us run into danger now, we
beseech you."

Our travellers found by this that they were a good,
sober sort of people, and flying for their lives, as they
were; and, as they were encouraged by it, so John said
to the joiner, his comrade, "Let us encourage them too as
much as we can;" so he called to them, "Hark ye, good
people," say the joiner, "we find by your talk that you are
flying from the same dreadful enemy as we are. Do not
be afraid of us; we are only three poor men of us. If you
are free from the distemper you shall not be hurt by us.
We are not in the barn, but in a little tent here in the
. outside, and we will remove for you; we can set up our
tent again immediately anywhere else;" and upon this a
parley began between the joiner, whose name was Rich-
ard, and one of their men, who said his name was Ford.

FORD: And do you assure us that you are all sound
men? ,

RICHARD: Nay, we are concerned to tell you of it, that
you may not be uneasy or think yourselves in danger;
but you see we do not desire you should put yourselves
into any danger, and therefore I tell you that we have
not made use of the barn, so we will remove from it,
that you may be safe and we also.
FORD: That is very kind and charitable; but if we, have '
reason to be satisfied that you are sound and free from
the visitation, why should we make you remove now you
are settled in your lodging, and, it may be, are laid down
to rest? We will go into the barn, if you please, to rest
ourselves a while, and we need not disturb you.

RICHARD: Well, but you are more than we are. I hope
you will assure us that you are all of. you sound too, for
the danger is as great from you to us as from us to

ou.
y FORD: Blessed be God that some do escape, though it is
but few; what may be our portion still we know not,
but hitherto we are preserved.

RICHARD: What part of the town do you come from?
Was the plague come to the places where you lived?

FORD: Ay, ay, in a most frightful and terrible manner,
or else we had not fled away as we do; but we believe
there will be very few left alive behind us.

RICHARD: What part do you come from?

FORD: We are most of us of Cripplegate parish, only
two or three of Clerkenwell parish, but on the hither:
side.

RICHARD: How then was it that you came away no
sooner? .

FORD: We have been away some time, and kept together
as well as we could at the hither end of Islington, where
we got leave to lie in an Old uninhabited house, and had
some bedding and conveniences of our own that we.
brought with us; but the plague is come up into Islington
too, and a house next door to our poor dwelling was in-
fected and shut up, and we are come away in a fright.

RICHARD: And what way are you going? -

FORD: As our lot shall cast us; we know not whither,
but God will guide those that look up to Him.

They parleyed no further at that time, but came all up
to the barn, and with some difficulty got into it. There
was nothing but hay in the barn, but it was almost full
of that, and they accommodated themselves as well as
they could, and went to rest; but our travellers observed
that before they went to sleep an ancient man, who, it
seems, was father of one of the women, went to prayer
with all the company, recommending themselves to the
blessing and direction of Providence, before they went to
slee .

Ithas soon day at that time of the year, and as Richard
the joiner had kept guard the first part of the night, so
John the soldier relieved him, and he had the post in the
morning, and they began to be acquainted with one an-
other. It seems when they left Islington they intended to
have gone north, away to Highgate, but were stopped
at Holloway, and there they would not let them pass; so
they crossed over the fields and hills to the eastward, and
came out at the Boarded River, and so avoiding the
towns, they left Homsey on the left hand and Newington
on the right hand, and came into the great road about
Stamford Hill on that side, as the three travellers had
done on the other side. And now they had thoughts of
going over the river in the marshes, and make forwards
to Epping Forest, where they hoped they should get
leave to rest. It seems they were not poor, at least not so
poor as to be in want; at least they had enough to subsist
them moderately for two or three months, when, as they
said, they were in hopes the cold weather would check
the infection, or at least the violence of it would have
spent itself, and would abate, if it were only for want of
people left alive to be infected.

' This was much the fate of our three travellers, only
that they seemed to be the better furnished for travelling,
and had it in their view to go farther off; for as to the
first, they did not propose to go farther than one day's
journey, that so they might have intelligence every two
or three days how things were at London.

But here our travellers found themselves under an un-
expected inconvenience, namely, that of their horse, for
by means of the horse to carry their baggage they were
obliged to keep in the road, whereas the people of this
other hand went over the fields or roads, path or no path,
way or no way, as they pleased; neither had they any
occasion to pass through any town, or come near any
town, other than to buy such things as they wanted for
their necessary subsistence, and in that indeed they were '
put to much difficulty; of which in its place.

But our three travellers were obliged to keep the road,
or else they must commit spoil, and do the country a great
deal of damage in breaking down fences and gates to go
over enclosed fields, which they were loath to do if they
could help it.

Our three travellers, however, had a great mind to
join themselves to this company and take their lot with
them; and after some discourse they laid aside their first
design which looked northward, and resolved to follow
the other into Essex; so in the morning they took up their
tent and loaded their horse, and away they travelled all
together.

They had some difficulty in passing the ferry at the
river-side, the ferryman being afraid of them; but after '
some parley at a distance, the ferryman was content to
bring his boat to a place distant from the usual feny, and
leave it there for them to take it; so putting themselves
over, he directed them to leave the boat, and he, having
another boat, said he would fetch it again, which it seems,
however, he did not do for above eight days. .

Here giving the ferryman money beforehand, they had
a supply of victuals and drink, which he brought and left
in the boat for them,.but not without, as I said, having
received the money beforehand. But now our travellers
were at a great loss and difficulty how to get the horse
over, the boat being small and not fit for it, and at last ;
could not do it without unloading the baggage and mark 3
ing him swim over. '

From the river they travelled towards the forest, but
when they came to Walthamstow the people of that town
denied to admit them, as was the case everywhere. The
constables and their watchmen kept them off at a distance
and parleyed with them. They gave the same account of
themselves as before, but these gave no credit to what
they said, giving it for a reason that two or three com-
panies had already come that way and made the like
pretences, but that they had given several people the
distemper in the towns where they had passed, and had
7 been afterwards so hardly used by the country, though
with justice too, as they had deserved, that about Brent-
wood, or that way, several of them perished in the fields,
whether of the plague or of mere want and distress they
could not tell.

This was a good reason indeed why the people of
Walthamstow should be very cautious, and why they
should resolve not to entertain anybody that they were
not well satisfied of. But, as Richard the joiner and one
of the other men who parleyed with them told them, it
was no reason why they should block up the roads and
refuse to let people pass through the town, and who asked
nothing of them but to go through the street; that if their
people were afraid of them, they might go into their
houses and shut their doors; they would neither show
them civility nor incivility, but go on about their busi-
ness.

The constables and attendants, not to be persuaded by
.reason, continued obstinate, and would hearken to noth-
ing, so the two men that talked with them went back tol '1 Vii-"'1' i "'- -""'"' .' I: ' I 'k'f'r-l

I my - . chute mean IEAR 1 493
their fellows to consult what; wasto be done; It was very > _
discouraging in the whole, and they knew not whattddo V _
for a good while; but at last John the soldier and biscuits

baker, considering a while, "Come," says he, "leave the
rest of the parley to me." He had not appeared yet," so
he sets the joiner, Richard, to work to cut some poles out
of the trees and shape them as like guns as he could,
and in a little time he had five or six fair muskets, which
at a distance would not be known; and about the part
where the lock of a gun is he caused them to wrap cloth
and rags such as they had, as soldiers do in wet weather
to preserve the locks of their pieces from rust; the rest
was discoloured with clay or mud, such as they could get;
and all this while the rest of them sat under the trees
by his direction, in two or three bodies, where they made
fires at a good distance from one another.

While this was doing he advanced himself and two or
three with him, and set up their tent in the lane within
sight of the barrier which the town's men had made,
and set a sentinel just by it with the real gun, the only
one they had, and Who walked to and fro with the gun
on his shoulder, so as that the people of the town might
see them. Also, he tied the horse to a gate in the hedge
just by, and got some dry sticks together and kindled
a fire on the other side of the tent, so that the people of
the town could see the fire and the smoke, but could not
see what they were doing at it. '

After the country people had looked upon them very
earnestly a great while, and, by all that they could see,
could not but suppose that they were a great many in
company, they began to be uneasy, not for their: going

away, but for staying where they were; and above all,>>

perceiving they had horses and arms, for, theyhad'seen
one horse and one gun at the tent, and they had seen
others of them walk about the field on the inside5of the
hedge by the side of the lane with their muskets, as they
took them to be, shouldered; I say, upon such a sight as
this, you may be assured they were alarmed and terribly
frighted, and it seems they went to a justice of the peace
to know what they should do. What the justice advised
them to I know not, but towards the evening they called
from the barrier, as above, to the sentinel at the tent.

"'What do you want?" says john.1

"Why, what do you intend to do?" says the constable.

"To do," says John; "what would you have us to do?"

CONSTABLE: Why don't you be gone? What do you stay
there for?

JOHN: Why do you stop us on the king's highway, and
pretend to refuse us leave to go on our way? ;
CONSTABLE: We are not bound to tell you our reason,
though we did let you know it was because of the plague. '

JOHN: We told you we were all sound and free from the
plague, which we were not bound to have satisfied you
of, and yet you pretend to stop us on the highway.

CONSTABLE: We have a right to stop it up, and our own
safety obliges us to it. Besides, this is not the king's high-
way; 't is a way upon suflerance. You see here is a gate,
and if we do let people pass here, we make them pay
toll.

JOHN: We have a right to seek our own safety as well
as you, and you may see we are flying for our lives, and
't is very unchristian and unjust to stop us.

CONSTABLE: You may go back from whence you came;
we do not hinder you from that.

JOHN: No; it is a stronger enemy than you that keeps
us from doing that, or else we should not have come
hither.

11t seems John was in the tent, but hearing them call, he steps
p.131 ind taiing the gun upon his shoulder talked to them a: if he
een t

e sentinel placed there upon the guard by some oficer
that was his superior.
CONSTABLE: Well, you may go any other way, then.

JOHN: No, no; I suppose you see we are able to send
you going, and all the people of your parish, and come
through your town when we will; but since you have
stopped us here, we are content. You see we have en-
camped here, and here we will live. We hope you will
furnish us with victuals.

CONSTABLE: We fumish you! What mean you by that?

101m: Why, you would not have us starve, would you?
If you stop us here, you must keep us.

CONSTABLE: You will be ill kept at our maintenance.

JOHN: If you stint us, we shall make ourselves the better
allowance.

CONSTABLE: Why, you will not pretend to quarter upon
us by force, will you?

JOHN: We have ofiered no violence to you yet. Why do
you seem to oblige us to it? I am an old soldier, and can-
not starve, and if you think that we shall be obliged to
go back for want of provisions, you are mistaken.

CONSTABLE: Since you threaten us, we shall take care
to be strong enough for you. I have orders to raise the
county upon you.

JOHN: It is you that threaten, not we. And since you are
for mischief, you cannot blame us if we do not give you
time for it; we shall begin our march in a few minutes.1

CONSTABLE: What is it you demand of us?

JOHN: At first we desired nothing of you but leave to
go through the town; we should have offered no injury
to any of you, neither would you have had any injury or
loss by us. We are not thieves, but poor people in distress,
and flying from the dreadful plague in London, which de-
vours thousands every week. We wonder how you could
be so unmercifull

1 This frighted the constable and the people that were with him,
that they immediately changed their note.
CONSTABLE: Self-preservatiOn obliges us.

JOHN: What! To shut up your compassion in a case of
such distress as this?

CONSTABLE: Well, if you will pass over the fields on
your left hand, and behind that part of the town, I will
endeavour to have gates opened for you.

JOHN: Our horsemen 1 cannot pass with our baggage
that way; it does not lead into the road that we want to
go, and why should you force us out of the road? Besides,
you have kept us here all day without any provisions but
such as we brought with us. I think you ought to send us
some provisions for our relief.

CONSTABLE: If you will go another way we will send you
some provisions.

JOHN: That is the way to have all the towns in the
county stop up the ways against us.

CONSTABLE: If they all furnish you with food, what will
you be the worse? I see you have tents; you want no
lodging.

JOHN: Well, what quantity of provisions will you send
us?

CONSTABLE: How many are you?

JOHN: Nay, we do not ask enough for all our company;
we are in three companies. If you will send us bread for
twenty men and about six or seven wOmen for three days,
and show us the way over the field you speak of, we de-
sire not to put your people into any fear for us; we will go
out of our way to oblige you, though we are as free from
infection as you are.2 -

CONSTABLE: And will you assure us that your other peo-
ple shall otter us no new disturbance?

JOHN: No, no, you may depend on it.

1 They had but one horse among them.

2Here he called to one of his men, and bade him order Captain

Richard and his people to march the lower way on the side of the
marches, and meet them in the forest,- whtch was all a sham, for
they had no Captain Richard, or any such company.
CONSTABLE: You must oblige yourself,- too, that none'of
your people shall'come a step nearer than where the pro;
visions we send you shall be set down. '

JOHN: I answer for it we will not. =

Accordingly they sent to the place twenty loaves of
bread and three or four large pieces of good beef, and
opened some gates, through which they passed; but none
, of them had courage so much as to look out to see them
go, and, as it was evening, if they had looked they could '
, not have seen them so as to know how few they were.

This was John the soldier's management. But this gave
such an alarm to the county, that had they really been two
or three hundred the whole county would have been
raised upon them, and they would have been sent to
prison, or perhaps knocked on the head. .

They were soon made sensible of this, for two days
afterwards they found several parties of horsemen and
footmen also about, in pursuit of three companies of
men, armed, as they said, with muskets, who were broke
out from London, and had the plague upon them, and
that were not only spreading the distemper among the .
people, but plundering the country. '

As they saw now the consequence of their case, they
soon saw the danger they were in, so they resolved, by
the advice also of the old soldier, to divide themselves
again. John and his two comrades, with the horse, went
away as if towards Waltham; the other in two companies,
but all a little asunder, and went towards Epping. -

The first night they encamped all in the forest, and not
far off of one another, but not setting up-the tent, lest
that should discover them. On the other hand, Richard
went to work with his axe and his hatchet, and cutting
down branches of trees, he built three tents or hovels,
in which they all encamped with as much convenience
as they could expect.

The provisions they' had at Walthamstow served them
very plentifully this night; and as for the next, they left
it to Providence. They had fared so well with the old
soldier's conduct that they now willingly made him their
leader, and the first of his conduct appeared to be very
good. He told them that they were now at a proper
distance enough from London; that as they need not be
immediately beholden to the country for relief, so they
ought to be as careful the country did not infect them as
that they did not infect the country; that what little
money they had, they must be as frugal of as they could;
that as he would not have them think of offering the
country any violence, so they must endeavour to make
the sense of their condition go as far with the country
as it could. They all referred themselves to his direction,
so they left their three houses standing, and the next day
went away towards Epping. The captain also, for so they
now called him, and his two fellow-travellers laid aside
their design of going to Waltham, and all went together.

When they came near Epping they halted, choosing
out a proper place in the open forest, not very near the
highway, but not far out of it on the north side, under a
little cluster of low pollard-trees. Here they pitched their
little camp, which consisted of three large tents or huts
made of poles, which their carpenter, and such as were
his assistants, cut down and fixed in the ground in a
circle, binding all the small ends together at the top, and
thickening the sides with boughs of trees and bushes, so
that they were completely close and warm. They had,
besides this, a little tent, where the women lay by them-
selves, and a hut to put the horse in.

It happened that the next day, or next but one, was
market-day at Epping, when Captain John and one of the
other men went to market and bought some provisions;
that is to say, bread, and some mutton and beef; and two
of the women went separately, as if they had not be-
longed to the rest, and bought more. John took the horse
to bring it home, and the sack which the carpenter car-
ried his tools in to put it in. The carpenter went to work
and made them benches and stools to sit on, such as the
wood he could get would afford, and a kind of table to
dine on.

They were taken no notice of for two or three days,
but after that abundance of people ran out of the town
to look at them, and all the country was alarmed about
them. The people at first seemed afraid to come near
them; and, on the other hand, they desired the people
to keep off, for there was a rumour that the plague was at
Waltham, and that it had been in Epping two or three
days; so John called out to them not to come to them,
"for," says he, "we are all whole and sound people here,
and we would not have yOu bring the plague among us,
nor pretend we brought it among y0u."

After this the parish oflicers came up to them and
parleyed with them at a distance, and desired to know
who they were, and by what authority they pretended
to fix their stand at that place. John answered very
frankly, they were poor distressed people from London,
who, foreseeing the misery they should be reduced to if
the plague spread into the city, had fled out in time for
their lives, arid, having no acquaintance or relations to fly
to, had first taken up at Islington, but, the plague being
come into that town, were fled farther; and as they sup-
posed that the people of Epping might have refused them
coming into their town, they had pitched their tents thus
in the open field and in the forest, being willing to bear
all the hardships of such a disoonsolate lodging rather
than have any one think or be afraid that they should re-
ceive injury by them.

At first the Epping people talked roughly to them, and
told them they must_remove; that this was no place for
them; and that they pretended to be sound and well,
but that they might be infected with the plague for aught
they knew, and might infect the whole country, and they
could not suiferthem there.

John argued very calmly with them a great while, and
told them that London was the place by which they, that
is, the townsmen of Epping and all the country round
them, subsisted; to whom they sold the produce of their
lands, and out of whom they made their rent of their
farms; and to be so cruel to the inhabitants of London,
or to any of those by whom they gained so much, was
very hard, and they would be loth to have it remembered
hereafter, and have it told how barbarous, how inhospita-
ble, and how unkind they were to the people of London
when they fled from the face of the most terrible enemy
in the world; that it would be enough to make the name of
an Epping man hateful through all the city, and to have
the rabble stone them in the very streets whenever they
came so much as to market; that they were not yet secure
from being visited themselves, and that, as he heard,
Waltham was already; that they would think it very hard
that when any of them fled for fear before they were
touched, they should be denied the liberty of lying so
much as in the open fields. -

The Epping men told them again that they, indeed,
said they were sound and free from the infection, but
that they had no assurance of it; and that it was reported
that there had been a great rabble of people at Waltham-
stow, who made such pretences of being sound as they
did, but that they threatened to plunder the town and
force their way, whether the parish officers would or no;
that there were near two hundred of them, and had arms
and tents like Low Country soldiers; that they extorted
provisions from the town, by threatening them with liv-
ing upon them at free quarter, showing their arms, and
talking in the language of soldiers; and that several of
them being gone away towards Romford and Brentwood,
the country had been infected by them, and the plague
spread into both those large towns, so that the people
durst not go to market there as usual; that it was very
likely they were some of that party; and if so, they de-
served to be sent to the county jail, and be secured till
they had made satisfaction for the damage they had done,
and for the terror and fright they had put the country
into.

John answered that what other people had done was
nothing to them; that they assured them they were all of
one company; that they had never been more in number
than they saw them at that time (which, by the way, was
very true); that they came out in two separate com-
panies, but joined by the way, their cases being the same;
that they were ready to give what account of themselves
anybody could desire of them and to give in their names
and places of abode, that so they might be called to an
account for any disorder that they might be guilty of;
that the townsmen might see they were content to live
hardly, and only desired a little room to breathe in on the
forest where it was wholesome; for where it was not they
could not stay, and would decamp if they found it other-
wise there. _

"But," said the townsmen, "we have a great charge of
poor upon our hands already, and we must take care not
to increase it; we suppose you can give us no security
against your being chargeable to our parish and to the
inhabitants, any more than you can of being dangerous
to us as to the infection."

"Why, look you," says John, "as to being chargeable to
you, we hope we shall not. If you will relieve us with
provisions for our present necessity, we will be 'very
thankful; as we all lived without charity when we were
at home, so we will oblige ourselves fully to repay you,
if God please to bring us back to our own families and
houses in safety, and to restore health to the people of
London.

"As to our dying here, we assure you, if any of us die,
we that survive will bury them, and put you to no ex-
pense, except 'it should be that we should all die, and
then, indeed, the last man not being able to bury himself,
would put you to that single expense, which, I am per-
suaded," says John, "he would leave enough behind him
to pay you for the expense of.

"On the other hand," says John, "if you will shut up all
bowels of compassion, and not relieve us at all, we shall
not extort anything by violence or steal from any one; but
when what little we have is spent, if we perish for want,
God's will be done."

John wrought so up the townsmen, by talking thus ra-
tionally and smoothly to them, that they went away; and
though they did not give any consent to their staying
there, yet they did not molest them; and the poor people
continued there three or four days longer without any
disturbance. In this time they had got some remote ac-
quaintance with a victualling-house at the outskirts of the
town, to whom they called at a distance to bring some
little things that they wanted, and which they caused to
be set down at a distance, and always paid for very
honestly.

During this time the younger people of the town came
frequently pretty near them, and would stand and look
at them, and sometimes talk with them at some space be-
tween; and particularly it was observed that the first
Sabbath-day the poor people kept retired, worshipped
God together, and were heard to sing psalms.

These things, and a quiet, inoffensive behaviour, be-
gan to get them the good opinion of the country, and
people began to pity them and speak very well of them;
the consequence of which was, that upon the occasion of
a very wet, rainy night, a certain gentleman who lived
in the neighbourhood sent them a little cart with twelve
trusses or bundles of Shaw, as well for them to lodge
upon as to cover and thatch their huts and to keep them
dry. The minister of a parish not far OE, not knowing of
the other, sent them also about two bushels of wheat and
half a bushel of white peas.

They were very thankful, to be sure, for this relief, and
particularly the straw was a very great comfort to them;
for though the ingenious carpenter had made frames for
them to lie in like troughs, and filled them with leaves
of trees, and such things as they could get, and had cut all
their tent-cloth out to make them ooverlids, yet they lay
damp, and hard, and unwholesome till this straw came,
which was to them like feather-beds, and, as John said,
more welcome than feather-beds would have been at an-
other time.

This gentleman and the minister having thus begun,
and given an example of charity to these wanderers,
others quickly followed, and they received every day
some benevolence or other from the people, but chiefly
from the gentlemen who dwelt in the country round
about. Some sent them chairs, stools, tables, and such
household things as they gave notice they wanted; some
sent them blankets, rugs, and coverlids, some earthen-
ware, and some kitchen ware for ordering their food.

Encouraged by this good usage, their carpenter in a
few days built them a large shed or house with rafters,
and a roof in form, and an upper floor, in which they
lodged warm, for the weather began to be damp and cold
in the beginning of September. But this house, being
very well thatched, and the sides and roof made very
thick, kept out the cold well enough. He made, also, an '
earthen wall at one end with a chimney in it, and another
of the company, with a vast deal of trouble and pains,
made a funnel to the chimney to carry out the smoke.

Here they lived comfortably, though coarsely, till the
beginning of September, when they had the bad news to
hear, whether true or not, that the plague, which was very
hot at Waltham Abbey on one side, and at Romford and
Brentvvood on the other side, was also come to Epping,
to Woodford, and to most of the towns upon the Forest,
and which, as they said, was brought down among them
chiefly by the higglers, and such people as went to and
from London with provisions.

If this was true, it was an evident contradiction to that
report which was afterwards spread all over England,
but which, as I have said, I cannot confirm of my own
knowledge, namely, that the market-people carrying pro-
visions to the city never got the infection, or carried it
back into the country, both which, I have been assured,
has been false.

It might be that they were preserved even beyond ex-
pectation, though not to a miracle, that abundance went
and came and were not touched, and that was much for
the encouragement of the poor people of London, who
had been completely miserable if the. people that brought
provisions to the markets had not been many times won-
derfully preserved, or at least more preserved than could
be reasonably expected.

But now these new inmates began to be disturbed more
eEectually, for the towns about them were really in-
fected, and they began to be afraid to trust one another
so much as to go abroad for such things as they wanted,
and this pinched them very hard, for now they had little
or nothing but what the charitable gentlemen of the coun-
try supplied them with. But, for their encouragement, it
happened that other gentlemen in the country, who had
not sent them anything before, began to hear of them
and supply them, and one sent them a large pig, that is
to say, a porker, another two sheep, and another sent them

a calf. In short, they had meat enough, and sometimes
had cheese and milk, and all such things. They were
chiefly put to it for bread, for when the gentlemen sent
them corn they had nowhere to bake it or to grind it. This _
, made them eat the first two bushel of wheat that was .
sent them in parched corn, as the Israelites of old did,

without grinding or making bread of it.

' At last they found means to carry their corn to a wind-
mill near Woodford, where they had it ground, and after-
wards the biscuit--baker made a hearth so hollow and dry
that he could bake biscuit-cakes tolerably well; and thus
they came into a condition to live without any assistance
or supplies from the towns; and it was well they did, for
the country was soon after fully infected, and about 120
were said to have died of the distemper in the villages
near them, which was a terrible thing to them.

On this they called a new council, and now the towns
had no need to be afraid they should settle near them;
but, on the contrary, several families, of the poorer sort
of the inhabitants quitted their houses and built huts
in the forest after the same manner as they had done. But
it was observed that several of these poor people that had
so removed had the sickness even in their huts or booths;
the reason of which was plain, namely, not bemuse they
removed into the air, but, (1) because they did not re-
move time enough; that is to say, not till, by openly con-
versing with the other people their neighbours, they had
the distemper upon them, or (as may be said) among
them, and so carried it about them whither they went. Or
(2) because they were not careful enough, after they
were safely removed out of the towns, not to come in
again and mingle with the diseased people.
But be it which of these it will, when our travellers
began to perceive that the plague was not only in the
towns, but even in the tents and huts on the forest near
them, they began then not only to be afraid, but to think
of decamping and removing; for had they stayed they
would have been in manifest danger of their lives.

It is not to be wondered that they were greatly af-
flicted at being obliged to quit the place where they had
been so kindly received, and where they had been
treated with so much humanity and charity; but neces-
sity and the hazard of life, which they came out so far to
preserve, prevailed with them, and they saw no remedy.
John, however, thought of a remedy for their present
misfortune, namely, that he would first acquaint that
gentleman who was their principal benefactor with the
distress they were in, and to crave his assistance and ad-
Vice.

The good, charitable gentleman encouraged them to
quit the place, for fear they should be cut off from any
retreat at all by the violence of the distemper; but whither
they should go, that he found very hard to direct them
to. At last John asked of him whether he, being a justice
of the peace, would give them certificates of health to
other justices whom they might come before, that so,
whatever might be their lot, they might not be repulsed
now they had been also so long from London. This his
worship immediately granted, and gave them proper let-
ters of health, and from thence they were at liberty to
travel whither they pleased. '

Accordingly they had a full certificate of health, in-
timating that they had resided in a village in the county
of Essex so long that, being examined and scrutinised suf-
ficiently, and having been retired from all conversation
for above forty days, without any appearance of sick-
ness, they were therefore certame concluded to be sound
men, and might be'safely entertained anywhere, having
at last removed rather for fear of the plague, which was
come into such a town, rather than for having any signal
of infection upon them, or upon any belonging to them.

With this certificate they removed, though with' great
reluctance; and John inclining not to go far from home,
they moved towards the marshes on the side of Waltham.
But here they found a man who, it seems, kept a weir or
stop upon the river, made to raise the water for the barges
which go up and down the river, and he terrified them
with dismal stories of the sickness having been spread
into all the towns on the river, and near the river, on the
side of Middlesex and Hertfordshire; that is to say, into
Waltham, Waltham Cross, Enfield, and Ware, and all
the towns on the road, that they were afraid to go that
way, though it seems the man imposed upon them, for
that the thing was not really true.

However, it terrified them, and they resolved to move
across the forest towards Bomford and Brentwood; but
they heard that there were numbers of people fled out of
London that way, who lay up and down in the forest
called Hainault Forest, reaching near Bomford, and who,
having no subsistence or habitation, not only lived oddly
and suffered great extremities in the woods and fields for
want of relief, but were said to be made so desperate by
those extremities as that they offered many violences to
the ecunty, robbed and plundered, and killed cattle, and
the like; that others, building huts and hovels by the road-
side, begged, and that with an importunity next door
to demanding relief; so that the county was very uneasy,
and had been obliged to take some of them up.

This, in the first place, intimated to them that they
would be sure to find the charity and kindness of the
county, which they had found here where they were be-
fore, hardened and shut up against them; and that, on
the other hand, they would be questioned wherever they
came, and would be in danger of violence from others in
like cases as themselves.

Upon all these considerations John, their captain, in all
their names, went back to their good friend and benefac-
tor, who had relieved them before, and laying their case
truly before him, humbly asked his advice; and he as
kindly advised them to take up their old quarters again,
or if not, to remove but a little farther out of the road,
and directed them to a proper place for them; and as they
really wanted some house rather than huts to shelter them
at that time of the year, it growing on towards Michael-
mas, they found an old decayed house, which had been
formerly some cottage or little habitation, but was so out
of repair as scarce habitable, and by the consent of a
farmer to whose farm it belonged,'they got leave to make
what use of it they could.

The ingenious joiner and all the rest, by his directions,
went to work with it, and in a very few days made it
capable to shelter them all in case of bad weather, and
in which there was an old chimney and an old oven,
though both lying in ruins; yet they made them both fit
for use, and raising additions, sheds, and lean-tos on every
side, they soon made the house capable to hold them all.

They chiefly wanted boards to make window-shutters,
floors, doors, and several other things; but as the gentle-
men above favoured them, and the country was by that
means made easy with them, and, above all, that they
were known to be all sound and in good health, every-
body helped them with what they could spare.

Here they encamped for good and all, and resolved to
remove no more. They saw plainly how terribly alarmed
that county was everywhere at anybody that came from
London, and that they should have no admittance any-
where but with the utmost dificulty, at least no friendly
reception and assistance, as they had received here.
Now, although they received great assistance and en-
couragement from the country gentlemen and from the
people round about them, yet they were put to great
straits, for' the weather grew cold and wet in October and
November, and they had not been used to so much hard-
, ship; so that they got colds in their limbs and distempers,
but never had the infection; and thus about December
L they came home to the city again.
: I give this story thus at large, principally to give an
L, account what became of the great numbers of people
' which immediately appeared in the city as soon as the
'_ sickness abated; for, as I have said, great numbers of
those that were able and had retreats in the c0untry fled
to those retreats. So, when it was increased to such a
frightful extremity as I have related, the middling people
j who had not friends fled to all parts of the country where
1 they could get shelter, as well those that had money to

' relieve themselves as those that had not. Those that had

money always fled farthest, because they were able to
. subsist themselves; but those who were empty suffered,
as I have said, great hardships, and were often driven by
necessity to relieve their wants at the expense of the coun-
try. By that means the country was made very uneasy at
them, and sometimes took them up, though even then
they scarce knew what to do with them, and were always
very backward to punish them, but often, too, they forced
them from place to place, till they were obliged to come
back again to London.

I have, since my knowing this story of John and his
brother, inquired and found that there were a great many
of the poor disconsolate people, as above, fled into the
country every way, and some of them got little sheds,
and barns, and outhouses to live in, where they could ob-
tain so much kindness of the country, and especially
where they had any the least satisfactory account to give
of themselves, and particularly that they did not come
out of London too late. But others, and that in great num-
bers, built themselves little huts and retreats in the fields
and woods, and lived like hermits in holes and caves, or
any place they could find, and where, we may be sure,
they suffered great extremities, such that many of them
were obliged to come back again whatever the danger
was; and so those little huts were often found empty,
and the country people supposed the inhabitants lay dead
in them of the plague, and would not go near them for
fear, no, not in a great while; nor is it unlikely but that
some of the unhappy wanderers might die so all alone,
even sometimes for want of help, as particularly in one
tent or but was found a man dead, and on the gate of a
field just by was cut with his knife, in uneven letters, the
following words, by which it may be supposed the other
man escaped, or that, one dying first, the other buried him
as well as he could:--

"O mIsErY!
We BOTH ShaLL DyE,
WoE, WoE."

I have given an account already of what I found to
have been the case down the river among the seafaring
men; how the ships lay in the offing, as it's called, in rows
or lines astem of one another, quite down from the Pool
as far as I could see. I have been told that they lay in the
same manner quite down the river as low as Gravesend,
and some far beyond, even everywhere, or in every place
where they could ride with safety as to wind and weather;
nor did I ever hear that the plague reached to any of the
people on board those ships, except such as lay up in the
Pool, or as high as Deptford Beach, although the people
went frequently on shore to the country towns and vil-2-.

A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 5'11

lages, and farmers' houses, to buy fresh provisions, fowls,
pigs, calves, and the like for their supply.

Likewise I found that the watermen on the river above
the bridge found means to convey themselves away up
the river as far as they could go, and that they had, many
of them, their whole families in their boats, covered with
tilts and bales, as they call them, and furnished with
straw within for their lodging, and that they lay thus all
along by the shore in the marshes, some of them setting
up little tents with their sails, and so lying under them
on shore in the day, and going into their boats at night;
and in this manner, as I have heard, the river-sides were
lined with boats and people as long as they had anything
to subsist on, or could get anything of the country; and,
indeed, the country people, as well gentlemen as others,
on these and all other occasions, were very forward to
relieve them, but they were by no means willing to re-
ceive them into their towns and houses, and for that we
cannot blame them.

There was one unhappy citizen, within my knowledge,
who had been visited in a dreadful manner, so that his

wife and all his children were dead, and himself and two '

servants only left, with an elderly woman, a near relation,

who had nursed those that were dead as well as she -

could. This disconsolate man goes to a village near the
town, though not within the bills of mortality, and find-
ing an empty house there, inquires out the owner, and
took the house. After a few days he got a cart and loaded
it with goods, and carries them down to the house; the
people of the village opposed his driving the cart along,
but with some arguings and some force, the men that
drove the cart along got through the street up to the door
of the house. There the constable resisted them again,
and would not let them be brought in. The man caused
the goods to be unloaden and laid at the door, and sent

- ix>>

'- _.\"1
w. ;
the cart away; upon which they carried the man before a
justice of peace; that is to say, they commanded him to
go, which he did. The justice ordered him to cause the
cart to fetch away the goods again, which he refused to
do; upon which the justice ordered the constable to
pursue the carters and fetch them back, and make them
reload the goods and carry them away, or to set them in
the stocks till they came for further orders; and if they
could not find them, nor the man would not consent to
take them away, they should cause them to be drawn
with hooks from the house-door and burned in the street.
The poor distressed man upon this fetched the goods
again, but with grievous cries and lamentations at the
hardship of his case. But there was no remedy; self-
preservation obliged the people to those severities, which
they would not otherwise have been concerned in.
Whether this poor man lived or died I cannot tell, but
it was reported that he had the plague upon him at that
time; and perhaps the people might report that to justify
their usage of him; but it was not unlikely that either he
or his goods, or both, were dangerous, when his whole
family had been dead of the distemper so little a while
before.

I know that the inhabitants of the towns adjacent to
London were much blamed for cruelty to the poor people
that ran from the contagion in their distress, and many
very severe things were done, as may be seen from what
has been said; but I cannot but say also that, where there
was room for charity and assistance to the people, with-
out. apparent danger to themselves, they were willing
enough to help and relieve them. But as every town
were indeed judges in their own case, so the poor people
who ran abroad in their extremities were often ill-used
and driven back again into the town; and this causedinfinite exclamations and outcries against the. ecuntry
towns, and made the clamour very popular. ' .

And yet, more or less, maugre all the caution, there
was not a town of any note within ten (or, I believe,
twenty) miles of the city but what was more or less in-
fected and had some died among them. I have heard the

accounts of several, such as they Were reckoned up,as
follows:--

InEnfield . . . . 82 . InDeptford . . . . 628
" Hornsey . . . . 58 . " Greenwich . . . 231
" Newington . . . 17 . " Eltham and Lusum . 86
" Tottenhmn . . . 42 . " Croydon . . . . 61
" Edmonton . l9 . " Brentwood . . . 70
" Barnet and Hadleigh. 43 . " Romford . . . . 109
" St. Albans . . 121 . " Barking Abbot . . 200
" Watford. . . . 45 . " Brentford. . .- . 482
" Uxbridge. . . . 117 . " Kingston. . . . 122
" Hertford . . . . 90 . " Staines . z .- . 82
" Ware . . . . . 160 . " Chertsey . z . . 18
" Hoddesdon . . . 30 . " Windsor . . . . 103
" Waltham Abbey. . 28 . . '
" Epping . . . . 26 . Cum aliis.

Another thing might render the country more strict
with respect to the citizens, and especially with respect
to the poor, and this was what I hinted at before, namely,
that there was a seeming propensity or a wicked inclina-'
tion in those that were infected to infect others. .

There had been great debates among our physicians
as to the reason of this. Some will have it to be in the
nature of the disease, and that it impresses every one
that is seized upon by it with a kind of a rage, and .a
hatred against their own kind, as if there was a malignity
not only in the distemper to communicate itself, -_but in
the very nature of man, prompting him with evil:will or
an evil eye, that, as they say in the case of a mad dog,
who, though the gentlest creature before of any of his
kind, yet then will fly upon and bite any one that comes
next him, and those as soon as any who had been most
observed by him before.

Others placed it to the account of the corruption of
human nature, who cannot hear to see itself more miser-
able than others of its own species, and has a kind of
involuntary wish that all men were as unhappy or in as
bad a condition as itself.

Others say it was only a kind of desperation, not know-
ing or regarding what they did, and consequently un-
concerned at the danger or safety, not only of anybody
near them, but even of themselves also. And indeed when
men are once come to a condition to abandon them-
selves, and be unconcerned for the safety or at the danger
of themselves, it cannot be so much wondered that they
should be careless of the safety of other people.

But I choose to give this grave debate a quite different
turn, and answer it or resolve it all by saying that I do not
grant the fact. On the contrary, I say that the thing is not
really so, but that it was a general complaint raised by
the people inhabiting the outlying villages against the
citizens to justify, or at least excuse, those hardships and
severities so much talked of, and in which complaints
both sides may be said to have injured one another; that
is to say, the citizens pressing to be received and har-
boured in time of distress, and with the plague upon
them, complain of the cruelty and injustice of the coun-
try people in being refused entrance and forced back
again with their goods and families; and the inhabitants,
finding themselves so imposed upon, and the citizens
breaking in as it were upon them whether they would or
no, complain that when they were infected they were
not only regardless of others, but even willing to infect
them; neither of which were really true, that is to say, in
the colours they were described in.

It is true there is something to be said for the frequent
alarms which were given to the country of the resolution
of the people of London to come out by force, not only
for relief, but to plunder and rob; that they ran about
the streets with the distemper upon them without any
control; and that no care was taken to shut up houses,
and confine the sick people from infecting others;
whereas, to do the Londoners justice, they never prac-
tised such things, except in such particular cases as I have
mentioned above, and such like. On the other hand,
everything was managed with so much care, and such
excellent order was observed in the whole city and
suburbs by the care of the Lord Mayor and aldermen,
and by the justices of the peace, church-wardens, &c.,
in the out-parts, that London may be a pattern to all the
cities in the world for the good government and the ex-
cellent order that was everywhere kept, even in the time
of the most violent infection, and when the people were
in the utmost consternation and distress. But of this I
shall speak by itself.

One thing, it is to be observed, was owing principally
to the prudence of the magistrates, and ought to be men-
tioned to their honour, viz., the moderation which they
used in the great and difficult work of shutting up of
houses. It is true, as I have mentioned, that the shutting
up of houses was a great subject of discontent, and I may
say indeed the only subject of discontent among the peo-
ple at that time; for the confining the sound in the same
house with the sick was counted very terrible, and the
complaints of people so confined were very grievous.
They were heard into the very streets, and they were
sometimes such that called for resentment, though oftener
for compassion. They. .had no way to converse with any
of their friends but out at their windows, where they
would make such piteous lamentations as often moved
the hearts of those they talked with, and of others who,
passing by, heard their story; and as those complaints
oftentimes reproached the severity, and sometimes the
insolence, of the watchmen placed at their doors, those
watchmen would answer saucily enough, and perhaps be
apt to aflront the people who were in the street talking
to the said families; for which, or for their ill-treatment of
the families, I think seven or eight of them in several
places were killed; I know not whether I should say
murdered or not, because I cannot enter into the particu-
lar cases. It is true the watchmen were on their duty,
and acting in the post where they were placed by a law-
ful authority; and killing any public legal officer in the
execution of his office is always, in the language of the
law, called murder. But as they were not authorised by
the magistrates' instructions, or by the power they acted
under, to be injurious or abusive, either to the people
who were under their observation, or to any that con-
cerned themselves for them; so when they did so, they
might be said to act themselves, not their ofice; to act as
private persons, not as persons employed; and conse-
quently, if they brought mischief upon themselves by
such an undue behaviour, that mischief was upon their
own heads; and indeed they had so much the hearty
curses of the people, whether they deserved it or not, that
whatever befell them nobody pitied them, and everybody
was apt to say they deserved it, whatever it was. Nor do
I remember that anybody was ever punished, at least to
any considerable degree, for whatever was done to the
watchmen that guarded their houses.

What variety of stratagems were used to escape and
get out of houses thus shut up, by which the watchmen
were deceived or overpowered, and that the people got
away, I have taken notice of already, and shall say no
more to that. But I say the magistrates did moderate and
ease families upon many occasions in this case, and par-
ticularly in that of taking away, or suffering to he re-
moved, the sick persons out of such houses when they
were willing to be removed either to a pest-house or
other places, and sometimes giving the well persons in
the family so shut up leave to remove upon information
given that they were well, and that they would confine
themselves in such houses where they went so long as
should be required of them. The concern, also, of the
magistrates for the supplying such poor families as were
infectedw--I say, supplying them with necessaries, as well
physio as food--was very great, and in which they did
not content themselves with giving the necessary orders
to the officers appointed, but the aldermen in person,
and on horseback, frequently rode to such houses and
caused the people to be asked at their windows whether
they were duly attended or not; also, whether they
wanted anything that was necessary, and if the ofiicers
had constantly carried their messages and fetched them
such things as they wanted or not. And if they answered
in the aflirmative, all was well; but if they complained
that they were ill supplied, and that the oficer did not
do his duty, or did not treat them civilly, they (the
officers) were generally removed, and others placed in
their stead.

It is true such complaint might be unjust, and if the
oflicer had such arguments to use as would convince
the magistrate that he was right, and that the people had
injured him, he was continued and they reproved. But
this part could not well bear a particular inquiry, for the
parties could very ill be well heard and answered in
the street from the windows, as was the case then. The
magistrates, therefore, generally chose to favour the peo-
ple and remove the man, as what seemed to be the least
wrong and of the least ill consequence; seeing if the
watchman was injured, yet they could easily make him
amends by giving him another post of the like nature;
but if the family was injured, there was no satisfaction
could be made to them, the damage perhaps being ir-
reparable, as it concerned their lives.

A great variety of these cases frequently happened
between the watchmen and the poor people shut up, be-
sides those I formerly mentioned about escaping. Some-
times the watchmen were absent, sometimes drunk, some-
times asleep when the people wanted them, and such
never failed to be punished severely, as indeed they de-
served.

But after all that was or could be done in these cases,
the shutting up of houses, so as to confine those that were
well with those that were sick, had very great incon-
veniences in it, and some that were very tragical, and
which merited to have been considered if there had been
room for it. But it was authorised by a law, it had the
public good in view as the end chiefly aimed at, and all
the private injuries that were done by the putting it in
execution must be put to the account of the public bene-
fit.

It is doubtful to this day whether, in the whole, it con-
tributed anything to the stop of the infection, and, in-
deed, I cannot say it did, for nothing could run with
greater fury and rage than the infection did when it was
in its chief violence, though the houses infected were
shut up as exactly and as effectually as it was possible.
Certain it is that if all the infected persons were ef-
fectually shut in, no sound person could have been in-
fected by them, because they could not have come near
them. But the case was this, and I shall only touch it
here, namely, that the infection was propagated in-
sensibly, and by such persons as were not visibly infected,
who neither knew whom they infected or who they were
infected by.

A house in Whitechapel was shut up for the sake of
one infected maid, who had only spots, not the tokens
come out upon her, and recovered; yet these people ob-
tained no liberty to stir, neither for air or exercise forty
days. Want of breath, fear, anger, vexation, and all the
other griefs attending such an injurious treatment cast
the mistress of the family into a fever, and visitors came
into the house and said it was the plague, though the
physicians declared it was not. However, the family were
obliged to begin their quarantine anew on the report of
the visitor or examiner, though their former quarantine
wanted but a few days of being finished. This oppressed
them so with anger and grief, and, as before, straitened
them also so much as to room, and for want of breathing
and free air, that most of the family fell sick, one of one
distemper, one of another, chiefly scorbutic ailments; only
one a violent colic; till, after several prolongings of their
confinement, some or other of those that came in with
the visitors to inspect the persons that were ill, in hopes
of releasing them, brought the distemper with them and
infected the whole house, and all or most of them died,
not of the plague as really upon them before, but of the
plague that those people brought them, who shOuld have
been careful to have protected them from it. And this was
a thing which frequently happened,- and was, indeed,
one of the worst consequences of shutting houses up.

I had about this time a little hardship put upon me,
which I was at first greatly afflicted at, and very much
disturbed about, though, as it proved, it did not expose
me to any disaster; and this was being appointed by the
alderman of Portsoken Ward one of the examiners of
the houses in the precinct where I lived. We had a large
parish, and had no less than eighteen examiners, as the
order called us; the people called us visitors. I en-
deavoured with all my might to be excused from such an
employment, and used many arguments with the alder~
man's deputy to be excused; particularly I alleged that I
was against shutting up houses at all, and that it would
be very hard to oblige me to be an instrument in that
which was against my judgment, and which I did verily
believe would not answer the end it was intended for;
but all the abatement I could get was only, that whereas
the officer was appointed by my Lord Mayor to continue
two months, I should be obliged to hold it but three
weeks, on condition nevertheless that I could then get
some other sufficient housekeeper to serve the rest of
the time for me, which was, in short, but a very small
favour, it being very difficult to get any man to accept of
such an employment, that was fit to be entrusted with it.

It is true that shutting up of houses had one effect,
which I am sensible was of moment, namely, it confined
the distempered people, who would otherwise have been
both very troublesome and very dangerous in their run-
ning about streets with the distemper upon them, which,
when they were delirious, they would have done in a
most frightful manner, and as indeed they began to do
at first very much, till they were thus restrained; nay, so
very open they were that the poor would go about and
beg at people's doors, and say they had the plague upon
them, and beg rags for their sores, or both, or anything
that delirious nature happened to think. of.

A poor, unhappy gentlewoman, a substantial citizen's
wife, was (if the story be true) murdered by one of these
creatures in Aldersgate Street, or that way. He was go-
ing along the street, raving mad, to be sure, and singing;
the people only said he was drunk, but he himself said
he had the plague upon him, which, it seems, was true;
and meeting this gentlewoman, he would kiss her. She
was terribly frighted, as he was only a rude fellow, and
she ran from him, but the street being very thin of peo-
ple, there was nobody near enough to help her. When
she saw he would overtake her, she turned and gave him
a thrust so forcibly, he being but weak, and pushed him
down backward. But very unhappily, she being so near,
he caught hold of her, and pulled her down also, and.
getting up first, mastered her, and kissed her; and which
was worst of all, when he had done, told her he had the
plague, and why should not she have it as well as he? She
was frighted enough before, being also young with child;
but when she heard him say he had the plague, she
screamed out and fell down into a swoon, or in a fit,
which, though she recovered a little, yet killed her in a
very few days, and I never heard whether she had the
plague or no.

Another infected person came and knocked at the door
of a citizen's house where they knew him very well; the
servant let him in, and being told the master of the house
was above, he ran up, and came into the room to them
as the whole family was at supper. They began to rise up,
a little surprised, not knowing what the matter was, but
he bid them sit still, he only came to take his leave of
them. They asked him, "Why, Mr--, where are you
going?" "Going?" says he; "I have got the sickness, and
shall die to-morrow night." "I is easy to believe, though
not to describe, the consternation they were all in. The
women and the man's daughters, which were but little
girls, were frighted almost to death, and got up, one run-
ning out at one door and one at another, some downstairs
and some upstairs, and getting together as well as they
could, locked themselves into their chambers, and
screamed out at the window for help, as if they had been V
frighted out of their wits. The master, more composed
than they, though both frighted and provoked, was going
to lay hands on him and throw him downstairs, being in
a passion, but then, considering a little the condition of
the man and the danger of touching him, horror seized
his mind, and he stood still like one astonished. The poor
distempered man all this while, being as well diseased in
his brain as in his body, stood still like one amazed. At
length he turns round: "Ay!" says he, with all the seeming
calmness imaginable, "is it so with you all? Are you all
disturbed at me? Why, then I'll e'en go home and die
there." And so he goes immediately downstairs. The
servant that had let him in goes down after him with a
candle, but was afraid to go past him and open the door,
so he stood on the stairs to see what he would do. The
man went and opened the door, and went out and flung
the door after him. It was some while before the family
recovered the fright, but as no ill consequence attended,
they have had occasion since to speak of it (you may be
sure) with great satisfaction. Though the man was gone,
it was some time, nay, as I heard, some days before they
recovered themselves of the hurry they were in; nor did
they go up and down the house with any assurance till
they had burnt a great variety of fumes and perfumes in
all the rooms, and made a great many smokes of pitch,
of gunpowder, and of sulphur, all separately shifted, and
washed their clothes, and the like. As to the poor man,
whether he lived or died I don't remember.

It is most certain that, if by the shutting up of houses
the sick had not been confined, multitudes who, in the
height of their fever, were delirious and distracted would
have been continually running up and down the streets;
and even as it was a very great number did so, and offered
all sorts of violence to those they met, even just as a mad

dog runs on and bites at every one he meets; nor can I
doubt but that, should one of those infected, diseased
creatures have bitten any man or woman while the
frenzy of the distemper was upon them, they, I mean the
person so wounded, would as certainly have been in-
curably infected as one that was sick before, and had the
tokens upon him.

I heard of one infected creature who, running out of
his bed in his shirt in the anguish and agony of his swell-
ings, of which he had three upon him, got his shoes on
and went to put on his coat; but the nurse resisting, and
snatching the coat from him, he threw her down, ran
over her, ran downstairs and into the street, directly to
the Thames in his shirt, the nurse running after him, and
calling to the watch to stop him; but the watchman,
frighted at the man, and afraid to touch him, let him go
on; upon which he ran down to the Stillde stairs, threw
away his shirt, and plunged into the Thames, and, being
a good swimmer, swam quite over the river; and the tide
being coming in, as they call it, that is, running westward,
he reached the land not till he came about the Falcon
stairs, where landing, and finding no people there, it be-
ing in the night, he ran about the streets there, naked as
he was, for a good while, when, it being by that time high
water, he takes the river again, and swam back to the Still-
yard, landed, ran up the streets again to his own house,
knocking at the door, went up the stairs and into his bed
again; and that this terrible experiment cured him of the
plague, that is to say, that the violent motion of his arms
and legs stretched the parts where the swellings he had
upon him were, that is to say, under his arms and his
groin, and caused them to ripen and break, and that the
cold of the water abated the fever in his blood.

I have only to add that I do not relate this any more
than some of the other, as a fact within my own knowl-
edge, so as that I can vouch the truth of them, and espe-
cially that of the man being cured by the extravagant ad--
venture, which I confess I do not think very possible;
but it may serve to confirm the many desperate things
which the distressed people falling into deliriums, and
what we call light headedness, were frequently run upon
at that time, and how infinitely more such there would
have been if such people had not been confined by the
shutting up of houses; and this I take to be the best, if
not the only good thing which was performed by that
severe method.

On the other hand, the complaints and the murmurings
were very bitter against the thing itself. It would pierce
the hearts of all that came by to hear the piteous cries of
those infected people, who, being thus out of their un-
derstandings by the violence of their pain, or the heat of
their blood, were either shut in or perhaps tied in their
beds and chairs, to prevent their doing themselves hurt,
and who would make a dreadful outcry at their being
confined, and at their being not permitted to die at
large, as they called it, and as they would have done
before.

This running of distempered people about the streets
was very dismal, and the magistrates did their utmost to
prevent it; but as it was generally in the night and always
sudden when such attempts were made, the oflicers could
not be at hand to prevent it; and even when any got cut
in the day, the officers appointed did not care to meddle
with them, because, as they were all grievously infected,
to be sure, when they were come to that height, so they
were more than ordinarily infectious, and it was one of
the most dangerous things that could be to touch them.
On the other hand, they generally ran on, not knowing
what they did, till they dropped down stark dead, or till
they had exhausted their spirits so as that they would
fall and then die in perhaps half-an-hour or an hour; and,
which was most piteous to hear, they were sure to come
to themselves entirely in that half-hour or hour, andthen
to make most grievous and piercing cries and lamenta-
tions in the deep, afllicting sense of the condition they
were in. This was much of it before the order for shutting
up of houses were strictly put in execution, for at first the
watchmen were not so vigorous and severe as they were
afterward in the keeping the people in; that is to say, be-
fore they were, I mean some of them, severely punished
for their neglect, failing in their duty, and letting people
who were under their care slip away, or conniving at
their going abroad, whether sick or well. But after they
saw the officers appointed to examine into their conduct
were resolved to have them do their duty or be punished
for the omission, they were more exact, and the people
were strictly restrained; which was a thing they took so
ill and bore so impatiently that their discontents can
hardly be described. But there was an absolute necessity
for it, that must he confessed, unless some other meas-
ures had been timely entered upon, and it was too late
for that.

Had not this particular of the sick being restrained as
above been our case at that time, London would have
been the most dreadful place that ever was in the world;
there would, for aught I know, have as many people died
in the streets as died in their houses; for when the dis-
temper was at its height it generally made them raving
and delirious, and when they were so they would never
be persuaded to keep in their beds but by force; and
many who were not tied threw themselves out of win-
dows, when they found they could not get leave to go
out of their doors.

It was for want of people conversing one with another,
in this time of calamity, that it was impossible any par-
ticular person could come at the knowledge of all the
extraordinary cases that occurred in different families;
and particularly I believe it was never known to'this day
how many people in their deliriums drowned themselves
in the Thames, and in the river which nms from the
marshes by Hackney, which we generally called Ware
River, or Hackney River. As to those which were set
down in the weekly bill, they were indeed few; nor could
it be known of any of those whether they drowned
themselves by accident or not. But I believe I might
reckon up more who, within the compass of my knowl-
edge or observation, really drowned themselves in that
year than are put down in the bill of all put together,
for many of the bodies were never found who yet were
known to be lost; and the like in other methods of self-
destruction. There was also one man in or about White-
cross Street burned himself to death in his bed; some said
it was done by himself, others that it was by the treachery
of the nurse that attended him; but that he had the plague
upon him was agreed by all.

It was a merciful disposition of Providence also, and
which I have many times thought of at that time, that no
fires, or no considerable ones at least, happened in the
city during that year, which, if it had been otherwise,
would have been very dreadful; and either the people
must have let them alone unquenched, or have come to-
gether in great crowds and throngs, unconcerned at the
danger of the infection, not concerned at the houses they
went into, at the goods they handled, or at the persons
or the people they came among. But so it was, that ex-
cepting that in Cripplegate parish, and two or three little
eruptions of fires, which were presently extinguished,
there was no disaster of that kind happened in the whole
year. They told us a story of a house in a place called
Swan Alley, passing from Coswell Street, near the end of
Old Street, into St. John Street, that a family was infected
there in so terrible a manner that every one of the house
died. The last person lay dead on the floor, and, as it is
supposed, had laid herself all along to die just before the
fire; the fire, it. seems, had fallen from its place, being of
wood, and had taken hold of the boards and the joists
they lay on, and burnt as far as just to the body, but had
not taken hold of the dead body, though she had little
more than her shift on, and had gone out of itself, not
hurting the rest of the house, though it was a slight timber
house. How true this might be I do not determine, but the
city being to suffer severely the next year by fire, this
year it felt very little of that calamity.

Indeed, considering the deliriums which the agony
threw people into, and how I have mentioned in their
madness, when they were alone, they did many desperate
things, it was very strange there were no more disasters
or tnat kind.

It has been frequently asked me, and I cannot say that
I ever knew how to give a direct answer to it how it came
to pass that so many infected people appeared abroad in
the streets at the same time that the houses which were
infected were so vigilantly searched, and all of them
shut up and guarded as they were.

I confess I know not what answer to give to this, unless
it be this, that in so great and populous a city as this is
it was impossible to discover every house that was in-
fected as soon as it was so, or to shut up all the houses
that were infected; so that people had the liberty of going
about the streets, even where they pleased, unless they
were known to belong to such-and-such infected houses.

It is true that, as several physicians told my Lord
Mayor, the fury of the contagion was such at some par-
ticular times, and people sickened so fast and died so
soon, that it was impossible, and indeed to no purpose,
to go about to inquire who was sick and who was well,
or to shut them up with such exactness as the thing re-
quired, almost every house in a whole street being in-
fected, and in many places every person in some of the
houses; and that which was still worse, by the time that
the houses were known to be infected, most of the per-
sons infected would be stone dead, and the rest run away
for fear of being shut up; so that it was to very small
purpose to call them infected houses and shut them up,
the infection having ravaged and taken its leave of the
house before it was really known that the family was any
way touched.

This might be sufficient to convince any reasonable per-
son, that as it was not in the power of the magistrates, or
of any human methods of policy, to prevent the spreading
the infection, so that this way of shutting up of houses
was perfectly insufficient for that end. Indeed it seemed
to have no manner of public good in it, equal or propor-
tionable to the grievous burden that it was to the particu-
lar families that were so shut up; and, as far as I was
employed by the public in directing that severity, I fre-
quently found occasion to see that it was incapable of
answering the end. For example, as I was desired, as a
visitor or examiner, to inquire into the particulars of sev-
eral families which were infected, we scarce came to any
house where the plague had visibly appeared in the fam-
ily but that some of the family were fled and gone. The
magistrates would resent this, and charge the examiners
with being remiss in their examination or inspection. But
by that means houses were long infected before it was
known. Now, as I was in this dangerous office but'half
the appointed time, which was two months, it was long
enough to inform myself that we were no way capable
of coming at the knowledge of the true state of any fam-
ily but by inquiring at the door or of the neighbours. As
for going into every house to search, that was a part no
authority would offer to impose on the inhabitants, or
any citizen would undertake, for it would have been ex-
posing us to certain infection and death, and to the ruin
of our own families, as well as of ourselves; nor would
any citizen of probity, and that could be depended upon,
have stayed in the town, if they had been made liable to
such a severity.

Seeing then that we could come at the certainty of
things by no method but that of inquiry of the neighbours
or of the family, and on that we could not justly depend,
it was not possible but that the uncertainty of this matter
would remain as above.

It is true masters of families were bound by the order
to give notice to the examiner of the place wherein he
lived, within two hours after he should discover it, of any
person being sick in his house, that is to say, having signs
of the infection, but they found so many ways to evade
this and excuse their negligence that they seldom gave
that notice till they had taken measures to have every
one escape out of the house who had a mind to escape,
whether they were sick or sound; and while this was so,
it is easy to see that the shutting up of houses was no way
to be depended upon as a sufficient method for putting a
stop to the infection, because, as I have said elsewhere,
many of those that so went out of those infected houses
had the plague really upon them, though they might
really think themselves sound. And some of these were
the people that walked the streets till they fell down
dead, not that they were suddenly struck with the dis-
temper as with a bullet that killed with the stroke, but
that they really had the infection in their blood long
before; only, that as it preyed secretly on the vitals,~it
appeared not till it seized the heart with a mortal power,
and the patient died in a moment, as with a sudden faint~
ing or an apoplectic fit.

I know that some even of our physicians thought for a
time that those people that so died in the streets were
seized but that moment they fell, as'if they had been
touched by a stroke from heaven, as men are killed by a
flash of lightning, but they found reason to alter their
opinion afterwards; for upon examining the bodies of
such after they were dead, they always either had tokens
upon them or other evident proofs of the distemper hav-
ing been longer upon them than they had otherwise ex-
pected.

This often was the reason that, as I have said, we that
were examiners were not able to come at the knowledge
of the infection being entered into a house till it was too
late to shut it up, and sometimes not till the people that
were left were all dead. In Petticoat Lane two houses
together were infected, and several people sick; but the
distemper was so well concealed, the examiner, who was
my neighbour, got no knowledge of it till notice was sent
him that the people were all dead, and that the carts
should call there to fetch them away. The two heads of
the families concerted their measures, and so ordered
their matters as that when the examiner was in the neigh-
bourhood they appeared generally at a time, and an-
swered, that is, lied, for one another, or got some of the
neighbourhood to say they were all in health, and, per-
haps, knew no better, till, death making it impossible to
keep it any longer as a secret, the dead-carts were called
in the night to both the houses, and so it became public.
But when the examiner ordered the constable to shut up
the houses there was nobody left in them but three peo-
ple, two in one house, and one in the other, just dying,
and a nurse in each house, who acknowledged that they

had buried five before, that the houses had been infected . '

nine or ten days, and that for all the rest of the two fami-
lies, which were many, they were gone, some sick, some
well, or whether sick or well could not be known.
A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 53!

In like manner, at another house in the same lane, a
man having his family infected, but very unwilling to be
shut up, when he could conceal it no longer, shut up
himself; that is to say, he set the great red cross upon his
door, with the words, "Lord have mercy upon us," and
so deluded the examiner, who supposed it had been done
by the constable, by order of the other examiner, for there
were two examiners to every district or precinct. By this
means he had free egress and regress into his house again,
and out of it, as he pleased, notwithstanding it was in-
fected, till at length his stratagem was found out, and
then he, with the sound part of his servants and family,
made off and escaped, so they were not shut up at all.

These things made it very hard, if not impossible, as I
have said, to prevent the spreading of an infection by
the shutting up of houses, unless the people would think
the shutting of their houses no grievance, and be so will-
ing to have it done as that they would give notice duly
and faithfully to the magistrates of their being infected,
as soon as it was known by themselves; but as that cannot
be expected from them, and the examiners cannot be
supposed, as above, to go into their houses to visit and
search, all the good of shutting up houses will be de-
feated, and few houses will be shut up in time, except
those of the poor, who cannot conceal it, and of some
people who will be discovered by the terror and conster-
nation which the thing put them into.

I got myself discharged ofthe dangerous office I was
in as soon as I could get another admitted, whom I had
obtained for a little money to accept of it; and so, instead
of serving the two months, which was directed, I was not
above three weeks in it; and a great while too, consider-
ing it was in the month of August, at which time the
distemper began to rage with great violence at our end
of the town.
In the execution of this office I could not refrain speak-
ing my opinion among my neighbours as to this shutting
up the people in their houses; in which we saw most
evidently the severities that were used, though grievous
in themselves, had also this particular objection against
them, namely, that they did not answer the end, as I have
said, but that the distempered people went day by day
about the streets; and it was our united opinion that a
method to have removed the sound from the sick, in case
of a particular house being visited, would have been
much more reasonable on many accounts, leaving nobody
with the sick persons but such as should, on such occa-
sion, request to stay and declare themselves content to
be shut up with them.

Our scheme for removing those that were sound from
those that were sick was only in such houses as were in-
fected, and confining the sick was no confinement; those
that could not stir would not complain while they were
in their senses, and while they had the power of judging.
Indeed, when they came to be delirious and light-
headed, then they would cry out of the cruelty of being
confined; but for the removal of those that were well, we
thought it highly reasonable and just, for their own sakes,
they should be removed from the sick, and that, for other
people's safety, they should keep retired for a while, to
see that they were sound, and might not infect others;
and we thought twenty or thirty days enough for this.

Now, certainly, if houses had been provided on pur-
pose for those that were sound to perform this demi-
quarantine in, they would have much less reason to think
themselves injured in such a restraint than in being con-
fined with infected people in the houses where they lived.

It is here, however, to be observed that after the
funerals became so many that people could not toll the
bell, mourn or weep, or wear black for one another, as
they did before; no, nor so much as make coffins for those
that died; so after a while the fury of the infection ap-
peared to be so increased that, in short, they shut up no
houses at all. It seemed enough that all the remedies of
that kind had been used till they were found fruitless,
and that the plague spread itself with an irresistible fury;
so that as the fire the succeeding year spread itself, and
burned with such violence that the citizens, in despair,
gave over their endeavours to extinguish it, so in the
plague it came at last to such violence that the people
sat still looking at one another, and seemed quite aban-
doned to despair; whole streets seemed to be desolated,
and not to be shut up only, but to be emptied of their in-
habitants; doors were left open, windows stood shattering
with the wind in empty houses for want of people to shut
them. In a word, people began to give up themselves to
their fears, and to think that all regulations and methods
were in vain, and that there was nothing to be hoped for
but an universal desolation; and it was even in the height
of this general despair that it pleased God to stay His
hand, and to slacken the fury of the contagion in such a
manner as was even surprising, like its beginning, and '
demonstrated it to be His own particular hand, and that
above, if not without the agency of means, as I shall take
notice of in its proper place.

But I must still speak of the plague as in its height,
raging even to desolation, and the people under the most
dreadful consternation, even, as I have said, to despair.
It is hardly credible to what excesses the passions of men
carried them in this extremity of the distemper, and this
part, I think, was as moving as the rest. What could affect
a man in his full power of reflection, and what could
make deeper impressions on the soul, than to see a man
almost naked, and got out of his house, or perhaps out of
his bed, into the street, come out of Harrow Alley, a
populous conjunction or collection of alleys, courts, and
passages in the Butcher Row in VVhitechapel,--I say,
what could be more affecting than to see this poor man
come out into the open street, run dancing and singing,
and making a thousand antic gestures, with five or six
women and children running after him, crying and call-
ing upon him for the Lord's sake, to come back, and en-
treating the help of others to bring him back, but all in
vain, nobody daring to lay a hand upon him or to come
near him?

This was a most grievous and afflicting thing to me,
who saw it all from my own windows; for all this while
the poor afflicted man was, as I observed it, even then in
the utmost agony of pain, having, as they said, two swell-
ings upon him, which could not be brought to break or
to suppurate; but, by laying strong caustics on them, the
surgeons had, it seems, hopes to break them, which
caustics were then upon him, burning his flesh as with
a hot iron. I cannot say what became of this poor man,
but I think he continued roving about in that manner till
he fell down and died.

No wonder the aspect of the city itself was frightful.
The usual concourse of people in the streets, and which
used to be supplied from our end of the town, was
abated. The Exchange was not kept shut, indeed, but
it was no more frequented. The fires were lost; they had
been almost extinguished for some days by a very smart
and hasty rain. But that was not all; some of the physi-
cians insisted that they were not only no benefit, but in-
jurious to the health of people. This they made a loud
clamor about, and complained to the Lord Mayor about
it. On the other hand, others of the same faculty, and emi-
nent too, opposed them, and gave their reasons why the
fires were, and must be, useful to assuage the violence of
the distemper. I cannot give a full account of their argu-
ments on both sides; only this I remember; that they
cavilled very much with one another. Some were for fires,
but that they must be made of wood and not coal, and of
particular sorts of wood too, such as fir in particular, or
cedar, because of the strong eflluvia of turpentine; others
were for coal and not wood, because of the sulphur and
bitumen; and others were for neither one or other. Upon

[the whole, the Lord Mayor ordered no more fires, and
especially on this account, namely, that the plague was
so fierce that they saw evidently it defied all means, and
rather seemed to increase than decrease upon any appli-
cation to check and abate it; and yet this amazement of
the magistrates proceeded rather from want of being able
to apply any means successfully than from any unwilling-
ness either to expose themselves or undertake the (rare
and weight of business; for, to do them justice, they
neither spared their pains or their persons. But nothing
answered; the infection raged, and the people were now
frighted and terrified to the last degree, so that, as I may
say, they gave themselves up, and, as I mentioned above,
abandoned themselves to their despair.

But let me observe here, that when I say the people
abandoned themselves to despair, I do not mean to what
men call a religious despair, or a despair of their eternal
state, but I mean a despair of their being able to escape
the infection or to outlive the plague, which, they saw,
was so raging and so irresistible in its force, that indeed
few people that were touched with it in its height, about
August and September, escaped; and, which is very par-
ticular, contrary to its ordinary operation in June and
July, and the beginning of August, when, as I have ob-
served, many were infected, and continued so many days,
and then went oif, after having had the poison in their
blood a long time; but now, on the contrary, most of the
people who were taken during the two last weeks in
August, and in the three first weeks in September, gen-
erally died in two or three days at furthest, and many the
very same day they were taken; whether the dog-days,
or, as our astrologers pretended to express themselves,
the influence of the dog-star had that malignant efiect,
or all those who had the seeds of infection before in them
brought it up to a maturity at that time altogether, I
know not; but this was the time when it was reported,
that above 3000 people died in one night; and they that
would have us believe they more critically observed it
pretend to say that they all died within the space of two
hours, viz., between the hours of one and three in the
morning.

As to the suddenness of people's dying at this time,
more than before, there were innumerable instances of
it, and I could name several in my neighbourhood. One
family without the Bars, and not far from me, were all
seemingly well on the Monday, being ten in family. That
evening one maid and one apprentice were taken ill, and
died'the next morning, when the other apprentice and
two children were touched, whereof one died the same
evening, and the other two on Wednesday. In a word, by
Saturday at noon the master, mistress, four children, and
four servants were all gone, and the house left entirely
empty, except an ancient woman who came in to take
charge of the goods for the master of the family's brother,
who lived not far OH, and who had not been sick.

Many houses were then left desolate, all the people
being carried away dead; and especially in an alley
farther on the same side beyond the Bars, going in at the
sign of Moses and Aaron, there were several houses to-
gether, which, they said, had not one person left alive in
them, and some that died last in several of those houses
were left a little too long before they were fetched out to
be buried; the reason of which was not, as some have
written, very untruly, that the living were not suficient
to bury the dead, but that the mortality was so great in
the yard or alley that there was nobody left to give notice
to the buriers or sextons that there were any dead bodies
there to be buried. It was said, how true I know not, that
some of those bodies were so much corrupted and so
rotten that it was with dificulty they were carried; and
as the carts could not come any nearer than to the Alley
Gate in the High Street, it was so much the more difficult
to bring them along; but I am not certain how many
bodies were then left. I am sure that ordinarily it was
not so.

As I have mentioned how the people were brought
into a condition to despair of life and abandon them-
selves, so this very thing had a strange effect among us
for three or four weeks; that is, it made them bold and
venturous, they were no more shy of one another, or re-
strained within doors, but went anywhere and every-
where, and began to converse. One would say to another,
"I do not ask you how you are, or say how I am; it is cer-
tain we shall all go; so 't is no matter who is sick or who
is sound;" and so they ran desperately into any place or
any company.

As it brought the people into public company, so it was
surprising how it brought them to crowd into the
churches. They inquired no more into whom they sat near
to or far from, what offensive smells they met with, or
what condition the people seemed to be in, but looking
upon themselves all as so many dead corpses, they come

to the churches without the least caution, and crowded

together, as if their lives were of no consequence com-
pared to the work which they came' about there. Indeed,
the zeal which they showed in coming, and the earnest-
ness and afiection they showed in their attention to what
they heard, made it manifest what a value people would
all put upon the worship of God if they thought every
day they attended at the church that it would be their
last

Nor was it without other strange effects, for it took
away all manner of prejudice at or scruple about the
person whom they found in the pulpit when they came
to the churches. It cannot be doubted but that many of
the ministers of the parish churches were cut off, among
others, in so common and dreadful a calamity; and others
had not courage enough to stand it, but removed into the
country as they found means for escape. As then some
parish churches were quite vacant and forsaken, the
people made no scruple of desiring such Dissenters as
had been a few years before deprived of their livings by
virtue of the Act of Parliament called the Act of Uni-
formity to preach in the churches; nor did the church
ministers in that case make any difficulty of accepting
their assistance; so that many of those whom they called
silenced ministers had their mouths opened on this oc-
casion and preached publicly to the people.

Here we may observe, and I hope it will not be amiss
to take notice of it, that a near View of death would soon
reconcile men of good principles one to another, and that
it is chiefly owing to our easy situation in life and our
putting these things far from us that our breaches are
fomented, ill blood continued, prejudices, breach of char-
ity and of Christian union, so much kept and so far car-
ried on among us as it is. Another plague year would
reconcile all these differences; a close conversing with
death, or with diseases that threaten death, would scum
OR the gall from our tempers, remove the animosities
among us, and bring us to see with differing eyes than
those which we looked on things with before. As the
people who had been used to join with the Church were
reconciled at this time with the admitting the Dissenters
A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 5'39

to preach to them, so the Dissenters, who with an un-
common prejudice had broken off from the communion
of the Church of England, were now content to come to
their parish churches, and to conform to the worship
which they did not approve of before; but as the terror
of the infection abated, those things all returned again
to their less desirable channel, and to the course they
were in before.

I mention this but historically. I have no mind to enter
into arguments to move either or both sides to a more
charitable compliance one with another. I do not see that
it is probable such a discourse would be either suitable
or successful; the breaches seem rather to widen, and
tend to a widening further, than to closing, and who am
I that I should think myself able to influence either one
side or other? But this I may repeat again, that 't is evi-
dent death will reconcile us all; on the other side the
grave we shall be all brethren again. In heaven, whither
I hope we may come from all parties and persuasions, we
shall find neither prejudice or scruple; there we shall be
of one principle and of one opinion. Why we cannot be
content to go hand in hand to the place where we shall
join heart and hand without the least hesitation, and with
the most complete harmony and affection,---I say, why
we cannot do so here I can say nothing to, neither shall
I say anything more of it but that it remains to be la-
mented.

I could dwell a great while upon the calamities of this
dreadful time, and go on to describe the objects that ap-
peared among us every day, the dreadful extravagancies
which the distraction of sick people drove them into; how
the streets began now to be fuller of frightful objects, and
families to be made even a terror to themselves. But after
I have told you, as I have above, that one man, being
tied in his bed, and finding no other way to deliver him-
self, set the bed on fire with his candle, which unhappily
stood within his reach, and burnt himself in his bed; and
how another, by the insufferable torment he bore, danced
and sung naked in the streets, not knowing one ecstasy
from another; I say, after I have mentioned these things,
what can be added more? What can be said to represent
the misery of these times more lively to the reader, or to
give him a more perfect idea of a complicated distress?

I must acknowledge that this time was terrible, that
I was sometimes at the end of all my resolutions, and that
I had not the courage that I had at the beginning. As the
extremity brought other people abroad, it drove me
home, and except having made my voyage down to
Blackwall and Greenwich, as I have related, which was
an excursion, I kept afterwards very much within doors,
as I had for about a fortnight before. I have said already
that I repented several times that I had ventured to stay
in town, and had not gone away with my brother and his
family, but it was too late for that now; and after I had
retreated and stayed within doors a good while before
my impatience led me abroad, then they called me, as I
have said, to an ugly and dangerous office, which brought
me out again; but as that was expired while the height of
the distemper lasted, I retired again, and continued close
ten or twelve days more, during which many dismal
spectacles represented themselves in my view, out of my
own windows and in our own street, as that particularly
from Harrow Alley, of the poor outrageous creature
which danced and sung in his agony; and many others
there were. Scarce a day or night passed over but some
dismal thing or other happened at the end of that Harrow
Alley, which was a place full of poor people, most of
them belonging to the butchers, or to employments de-
pending upon the butchery.

Sometimes heaps and throngs of people would burst
out of the alley, most of them women, making a dreadful .
clamour, mixed or compounded of screeches, cryings, and
calling one another, that we could not conceive what to
make of it. Almost all the dead part of the night the dead-
cart stood at the end of that alley, for if it went in it could
not well turn again, and could go in but a little way.
There, I say, it stood to receive dead bodies, and as the
churchyard was but a little way off, if it went away full it
would soon be back again. It is impossible to describe
the most horrible cries and noise the poor people would
make at their bringing the dead bodies of their children
and friends out of the cart, and by the number one would
have thought there had been none left behind, or that
there were people enough for a small city living in those
places. Several times they cried "Murder," sometimes
"Fire;" but it was easy to perceive it was all distraction,
and the complaints of distressed and distempered people.

I believe it was everywhere thus at that time, for the
plague raged for six or seven weeks beyond all that I have
expressed, and came even to such a height that, in the
extremity, they began to break into that excellent order
of which I have spoken so much in behalf of the magis-
trates, namely, that no dead bodies were seen in the
streets or burials in the daytime, for there was a neces:
sity in this extremity to bear with its being otherwise for
a little while. -

One thing I cannot omit here, and indeed I thought it
was extraordinary, at least it seemed a remarkable hand
of Divine justice, viz., that all the predictors, astrologers,
fortune-tellers, and what they called cunning-men, con-
jurers, and the like; calculators of nativities and dreamers
of dreams, and such people, were gone and vanished; not
one of them was to be found. I am verily persuaded that
a great number of them fell in the heat of the calamity,
having ventured to stay upon the prospect of getting
great estates; and indeed their gain was but too great for
a time, through the madness and folly of the people. But
now they were silent; many of them went to their long
home, not able to foretell their own fate or to calculate
their own nativities. Some have been critical enough to
say that every one of them died. I dare not affirm that;
but this I must own, that I never heard of one of them
that ever appeared after the calamity was over.

But to return to my particular observations during this
dreadful part of the visitation. I am now come, as I have
said, to the month of September, which was the most
dreadful of its kind, I believe, that ever London saw; for,
by all the accounts which I have seen of the preceding
visitations which have been in London, nothing has been
like it, the number in the weekly bill amounting to almost
40,000 from the 22nd of August to the 26th of September,
being but five weeks. The particulars of the bills are as
follows, viz.:--

 

From August the 22nd to the 29th . . . . . . . 7496
" " 29th " 5th September . . . 8252

" September the 5th " 12th " . . . 7690

" " 12th " 19th " . . . 8297

" " 19th " 26th " . . . 6460
38,195

This was a prodigious number of itself, but if I should
add the reasons which I have to believe that this account
was deficient, and how deficient it was, you would, with
me, make no scruple to believe that there died above ten
thousand a week for all those weeks, one week with an-
other, and a proportion for several weeks both before and
after. The confusion among the people, especially within
the city at that time, was inexpressible. The terrOr was so
great at last that the courage of the people appointed to
carry away the dead began to fail them; nay, several of
them died, although they had the distemper before and
were recovered, and some of them dropped down when
they have been carrying the bodies even at the pit side,
and just ready to throw them in; and this confusion was
greater in the city, because they had flattered themselves
with hopes of escaping, and thought the bitterness of
death was past. One cart, they told us, going up Shore-
ditch was forsaken of the drivers, or being left to one man
to drive, he died in the street, and the horses going on,
overthrew the cart, and left the bodies, some thrown out
here, some there, in a dismal manner. Another cart was,
it seems, found in the great pit in Finsbury Fields, the
driver being dead, or having been gone and abandoned
it, and the horses running too near it, the cart fell in and
drew the horses in also. It was suggested that the driver
was thrown in with it, and that the cart fell upon him, by
reason his whip was seen to be in the pit among the
bodies; but that, I suppose, could not be certain.

In our parish of Aldgate the dead-carts were several
times, as I have heard, found standing at the churchyard
gate full of dead bodies, but neither bellman or driver
or any one else with it; neither in these or many other
cases did they know what bodies they had in their cart,
for sometimes they were let down with ropes out of bal-
conies and out of windows, and sometimes the bearers
brought them to the cart, sometimes other people; nor,
as the men themselves said, did they trouble themselves
to keep any account of the numbers.

The vigilance of the magistrates was now put to the
utmost trial, and, it must be confessed, can never be
enough acknowledged on this occasion also; whatever
expense or trouble they were at, two things were never
neglected in the city or suburbs either--

1. Provisions were always to be had in full plenty, and

/
the price not much raised neither, hardly worth speaking.

2. No dead bodies lay unburied or uncovered; and if
one walked from one end of the city to another, no funeral
or sign of it was to be seen in the daytime, except a little,
as I have said above, in the three first weeks in Sep-
tember.

This last article perhaps will hardly be believed when
some accounts which others have published since that
shall be seen, wherein they say that the dead lay un-
buried, which I am assured was utterly false; at least, if
it had been anywhere so, it must have been in houses
where the living were gone from the dead, having found
means, as I have observed, to escape, and where no notice

at all in the case in hand; for this I am positive in, having
myself been employed a little in the direction of that part
in the parish in which I lived, and where as great a deso-
lation was made in proportion to the number of inhabit-
ants as was anywhere;--I say, I am sure that there were
no dead bodies remained unburied; that is to say, none
that the proper oflicers knew of; none for want of people
to carry them off, and buriers to put them into the ground
and cover them; and this is sufficient to the argument; for
what might lie in houses and holes, as in Moses and Aaron
Alley, is nothing; for it is most certain they were buried
as soon as they were found. As to the first article, namel ,
of provisions, the scarcity or deamess, though I have men-
tioned it before, and shall speak of it again, yet I must
observe here--

->. 1. The price of bread in particular was not much
raised; for in the beginning of the year, viz., in the first
week in March, the penny Wheaten loaf was ten ounces
and a half; and in the height of the contagion it was to
be had at nine ounces and a half, and never dearer, no,
not all that season. And about the beginning of Novem-
ber it was sold ten ounces and a half again; the like of
which, I believe, was never heard of in any city, under
so dreadful a visitation, before.

2. Neither was there (which I wondered much at) any
want of bakers or ovens kept open to supply the people
with bread; but this was indeed alleged by some families,
viz., that their maid-servants, going to the bakehouses
with their dough to be baked, which was then the custom,
sometimes came home with the sickness, that is to say,
the plague upon them.

In all this dreadful visitation there were, as I have said
before, but two pest-houses made use of, viz., one in the
fields beyond Old Street and one in Westminster; neither
was there any compulsion used in carrying people
thither. Indeed there was no need of compulsion in the
case, for there were thousands of poor distressed people
who, having no help, or conveniences, or supplies but of
charity, would have been very glad to have been carried
thither and been taken care of, which, indeed, was the
only thing that I think was wanting in the whole public
management of the city, seeing nobody was here allowed
to be brought to the pest-house but where money was
given, or security for money, either at their introducing
or upon their being cured and sent out, for very many
were sent out again whole; and very good physicians
were appointed to those places, so that many people did
very well there, of which I shall make mention again. The
principal sort of people sent thither were, as I have said,
servants who got the distemper by going of errands to
fetch necessaries to the families where they lived, and
who in that case, if they came home sick, were removed
to preserve the rest of the house; and they were so well
looked after that, in all the time of the visitation, that
there Was but 156 buried in all at the London pest-house,
and 159 at that of Westminster.
By having more pest-houses I am far from meaning a '
forcing all people into such places. Had the shutting up ~
of houses been omitted and the sick hurried out of their .

dwellings to pest-houses, as some proposed, it seems, at

that time as well as since, it would certainly have been

much worse than it was. The very removmg the sick
would have been a spreading of the infection and the
rather because that removing could not effectually clear
the house where the sick person was of the distemper,
and the rest of the family, being then left at liberty, would
certainly spread it among others.

The methods also in private families, which would
have been universally used to have concealed the dis-
temper, and to have concealed the persons being sick,

would have been such that the distemper would some-
times have seized a whole family before any visitors or :3
examiners could have known of it. On the other hand,
the prodigious numbers which would have been sick at
a time would have exceeded all the capacity of public f;
pest-houses to receive them, or of public oflicers to dis--

cover and remove them.

This was well considered in those days, and I have '2:
heard them talk of it often. The magistrates had enough e

to do to bring people to submit to having their houses
shut up, and many ways they deceived the watchmen and

got out, as I have observed. But that difliculty made it ap- =

parent that they would have found it impracticable to
have gone the other way to work, for they could never
have forced the sick people out of their beds and out of
their dwellings. It must not have been my Lord Mayor's
oflicers, but an army of officers that must have attempted
it; and the people, on the other hand, would have been
enraged and desperate, and would have killed those that
should have offered to have meddled with them or with

 

.. ;'-'--'wEUR,~' :yzwm w-'mytrhw
their children and relations, whatever had befallen them
for it; so that they would have made the people, who, as
it was, were in the most terrible distraction imaginable,
---I say, they would have made them stark mad; whereas
the magistrates found it proper on several accounts to
treat them with lenity and compassion, and not with
violence and terror, such as dragging the sick out of their
houses, or obliging them to remove themselves, would
have been.

This leads me again to mention the time when the
plague first began, that is to say, when it became certain
that it would spread over the whole town, when, as I
have said, the better sort of people first took the alarm,
and began to hurry themselves out of town. It was true,
as I observed in its place, that the throng was so great,
and the coaches, horses, waggons, and carts were so
many, driving and dragging the people away, that it
looked as if all the city was running away; and had any
regulations been published that had been terrifying at
that time, especially such as would pretend to dispose of
the people otherwise than they would dispose of them-
selves, it would have put both the city and suburbs into
the utmost confusion. '

But the magistrates wisely caused the people to be
encouraged, made very good bye-laws for the regulating
the citizens, keeping good order in the streets, and mak-
ing everything as eligible as possible to all sorts of people.

In the first place, the Lord Mayor and the sheriffs, the
Court of Aldermen, and a certain number of the Common
Council men, or their deputies, came to a resolution and
published it, viz., that they would not quit the city them-
selves, but that they would be always at hand for the pre-
serving good order in every place and for the doing jus-
tice on all occasions; as also for the distributing the public
charity to the poor; and, in a word, for the doing the duty
and discharging the trust reposed in them by the citizens
to the utmost of their power.

In pursuance of these orders, the Lord Mayor, sherifis,
&c., held councils every day more or less, for making such
dispositions as they found needful for preserving the civil
peace; and though they used the people with all possible
gentleness and clemency, yet all manner of presumptuous
rogues, such as thieves, housebreakers, plunderers of the
dead or of the sick, were duly punished, and several
declarations were continually published by the Lord
Mayor and Court of Aldermen against such.

Also all constables and churchwardens were enjoined
to stay in the city upon severe penalties, or to depute such
able and sufficient housekeepers as the deputy aldermen
or Common Council men of the precinct should approve,
and for whom they should give security; and also se-
curity in case of mortality, that they would forthwith
constitute other constables in their stead.

These things re-established the minds of the people
very much, especially in the first of their fright, when
they talked of making so universal a flight that the city
would have been in danger of being entirely deserted of
its inhabitants, except the poor, and the country of being
plundered and laid waste by the multitude. Nor were the
magistrates deficient in performing their part as boldly
as they promised it; for my Lord Mayor and the sheriffs
were continually in the streets, and at places of the great--
est danger, and though they did not care for having too
great a resort of people crowding about them, yet in
emergent cases they never denied the people access to
them, and heard with patience all their grievances and
complaints. My Lord Mayor had a low gallery built on
purpose in his hall, where he stood a little removed from
the crowd when any cornplaint came to be heard, that he
might appear with as much safety as possible.

Likewise the proper officers, called my Lord- Mayor's
officers, constantly attended in their turns, as they were
in waiting; and if any of them were sick or infected, as
some of them were, others were instantly employed to
fill up and oficiate in their places, till it was known
whether the other should live or die.

In like manner the sheriffs and aldermen did in their
several stations and wards, where they were placed by
office, and the sherifis' officers or sergeants were ap-
pointed to receive orders from the respective aldermen
in their turn, so that justice was executed in all cases
without interruption. In the next place, it was one of their
particular cares to see the orders for the freedom of the
markets observed, and in this part either the Lord Mayor
or one or both of the sherifis were every market-day on
horseback to see their orders executed, and to.see that
the country people had all possible encouragement and
freedom in their coming to the markets and going back
again, and that no nuisances or frightful objects should
be seen in the streets to terrify them or make them un-
willing to come. Also the bakers were taken under par-
ticular order, and the Master of the Bakers' Company
was, with his court of assistants, directed to see the order
of my Lord Mayor for their regulation put in execution,
and the due assize of bread, which was weekly appointed
by my Lord Mayor, observed, and all the bakers were _
obliged to keep their ovens going constantly, on pain of
losing the privileges of a freeman of the city of London. '

By this means bread was always to be had in plenty,
and as cheap as usual, as I said above; and provisions
were never wanting in the markets, even to such a de-
gree that I often wondered at it, and reproached myself
with being so timorous and cautious in stirring abroad,
when the country people came freely and boldly to mar-
ket, as if there had been no manner of infection in the

said magistrates that the streets were kept constantly
clear, and free from all manner of frightful objects, dead
bodies, or any such things as were indecent or unpleasant,
unless where anybody fell down suddenly or died in the
streets, as I have said above, and these were generally
covered with some cloth or blanket, or removed into the
next churchyard, till night. All the needful works that
carried terror with them, that were both dismal and dan-
gerous, were done in the night; if any diseased bodies
were removed, or dead bodies buried, or infected clothes
burnt, it was done in the night; and all the bodies which
were thrown into the great pits in the several churchyards
or burying-grounds, as has been observed, were so re-
moved in the night, and everything was covered and
closed before day. So that in the daytime there was not
the least signal of the calamity to be seen or heard of,
except what was to be observed from the emptiness of
the streets, and sometimes from the passionate outcries
and lamentations of the people, out at their windows, and
from the numbers of houses and shops shut up.

came east and spread over all the city. It was indeed a
merciful disposition of God, that as the plague began at
one end of the town first, as has been observed at large,
so it proceeded progressively to other parts, and did not
come on this way, or eastward, till it had spent its fury
in the west part of the town; and so, as it came on one
way, it abated another. For example, it began at St.
' Giles's and the Westminster end of the town, and it was
in its height in all that part by about the middle of July,

viz., in St. Giles-in-the-Fields, St. Andrew's, Holbom, St.
Clement Danes, St. Martin-in-the--Fields, and in West-
minster. The latter end of July it decreased in those par-
ishes; and coming east, it increased prodigiously in Crip-
plegate, St. Sepulchre's, St. James's, Clerkenwell, and St.
Bride's and Aldersgate. While it was in all these parishes,
the city and all the parishes of the Southwark side of the
water, and all Stepney, Whitechapel, Aldgate, Wapping
and Batcliff, were very little touched, so that people went
about their business unconcerned, carried on their trades,
kept open their shops, and conversed freely with one an-
other in all the city, the east and north-east suburbs, and
in Southwark, almost as if the plague had not been
among us.

Even when the north and north-west suburbs were
fully infected, viz., Cripplegate, Clerkenwell, Bishops-
gate, and Shoreditch, yet still all the rest were tolerably
well. For example, from 25th July to lst August the bill
stood thus of all diseases:--

St. Giles, Cripplegate . . . . . . . ; t . . 554
St. Sepulchre . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Clerkenwell . . . . . . . : . . . : z . 103
Bishopsgate . . . . . . . . : . ; -. . . 116
Shoreditch . . . . . . . . . . . . -. . 110
Stepney parish . . . . . . . . . . '. . . 127
Aldgate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Whitechapel. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
All the ninety-seven parishes within the walls . .- -. . 2%
All the parishes in Southwark. . . . . . z : . 205

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1889

So that, in short, there died more that week in the two
parishes of Cripplegate and St. Sepulchre by forty-eight
than in all the city, all the east suburbs, and all the South.
wark parishes put together. This caused the reputation of
the city's health to continue all over England, and espe-
cially in the counties and markets adjacent, from whence
our supply of provisions chiefly came, even much longer
than that health itself continued; for when the people
came into the streets from the country by Shoreditch and
Bishopsgate, or by Old Street and Smithfield, they would
see the out-streets empty and the houses and sheps shut,
and the few people that were stirring there walk in the
middle of the streets. But when they came within the
city, there things looked better, and the markets and
shops were open, and the people walking about the
sheets as usual, though not quite so many; and this con-
tinued till the latter end of August and the beginning of
September. .

But then the case altered quite; the distemper abated
in the west and north-west parishes, and the weight of
the infection lay on the city and the eastern suburbs, and
the Southwark side, and this in a frightful manner.

Then, indeed, the city began to look dismal, shops to
be shut, and the streets desolate. In the High Street, in-
deed, necessity made people stir abroad on many occa-
sions; and there would be in the middle of the day a
pretty many people, but in the mornings and evenings
scarce any to be seen, even there, no, not in Comhill and
Cheapside.

These observations of mine were abundantly confirmed
by the weekly bills of mortality for those weeks, an ab-
stract of which, as they respect the parishes which I have
mentioned, and as they make the calculations I speak of
very evident, take as follows.

The weekly bill, which makes out this decrease of the

burials in the west and north side of the city, stands
thus:--From the 12th of September to the 19th--

St. Giles, Cripplegate . . . . . . . . 456
St. Giles-in-the-Fields. . . . . . . . 140
Clerkenwell . . . . . . . . . . 77
St. Sepulchre . . . . . . . . . . 214
St. Leonard, Shoreditch . . . . . . . 188
Stepney parish. . . . . . . . . . I716
Aldgate . . . . . . . . . . . 623
Whitechapel . . . . . . . . . . 582
In the ninety-seven parishes within the walls . 1498
In the eight parishes on Southwark side . . . 1686

Total . . . . . . . . . . . 6070

Here is a strange change of things indeed, and a sad
change it was, and had it held for two months more than
it did, very few people would have been left alive. But
then such, I say, was the merciful disposition of God,
that when it was thus the west and north part, which had
been so dreadfully visited at first, grew, as you see, much
better; and as the people disappeared here, they began
to look abroad again there; and the next week or two al-
tered it still more; that is, more to the encouragement of
the other part of the town. For example :--

From the 19th of September to the 26th--

St. Giles, Cripplegate . . . . . . . 277
St. Giles-in-the--Fields. . . .' . . . . 119
Clerkenwell . . . . . . . . . . '16
St. Sepulchre . . . . . . . . . . 198
St. Leonard, Shoreditch . . . . . . . 146
Stepney parish. . . . . . . . . . 616
Aldgate . . . . . . . . . . . 496
Whitechapel . . . . . . . . . . 346
In the ninety-seven parishes within the walls . 1268
In the eight parishes on Southwark side . . . 1390

Total. . . . . . . ._.4927

 

.I'
'5

t
5):.>> .

 

'3' 55.5 .~'|';~5!5Y="'}1'<.\From the 26th of September to the 3rd of October--

 

St. Giles, Cripplegate . . . . . . . . 196
St. Giles-in-the-Fields. . . . . . . . 95
Clerkenwell . . . . . . . . . . 48
St. Sepulchre . . . . . . . . . . 187
St. Leonard, Shoreditch . . . . . . . 128
Stepney parish . . . . . . . . . . 674
Aldgate . . . . . . . . . . . 37 2
Whitechapel . . . . . . . . . . 328
In the ninety-seven parishes within the walls . 1 149
In the eight parishes on Southwark side . . . 19.01

Total . . . . . . . . . . . 4328

And now the misery of the city, and of the said east and
south parts, was complete indeed; for, as you see, the
weight of the distemper lay upon those parts, that is to
say, the city, the eight parishes over the river, with the
parishes of Aldgate, Whitechapel, and Stepney; and this
was the time that the bills came up to such a monstrous
height as that I mentioned before, and that eight or nine,
and, as I believe, ten or twelve thousand a week, died;
for it is my settled opinion that they never could come at
any just account of the numbers, for the reasons which I
have given already.

Nay, one of the most eminent physicians, who has since
published in Latin an account of those times, and of his
observations, says that in one week there died twelve
thousand people, and that particularly there died four
thousand in one night; though I do not remember that
there ever was any such particular night so remarkably
fatal as that such a number died in it. However, all this
confirms what I have said above of the uncertainty of the
bills of mortality, &c., of which I shall say more hereafter.

And here let me take leave to enter again, though it
may seem a repetition of circumstances, into a descrip-
tion of the miserable condition of the city itself, and of
those parts where I lived at this particular time. The city
and those other parts, notwithstanding the great numbers
of people that were gone into the country, was vastly full
of people, and perhaps the fuller because people had for '
a long time a strong belief that the plague would not
come into the city, nor into Southwark, 'no, nor into
Wapping or Batcliff at all; nay, such was the assurance
of the people on that head that many removed from the
suburbs on the west and north sides, into those eastern
and south sides as for safety, and, as I verily believe,
carried the plague amongst them there, perhaps sooner
than they would otherwise have had it.

Here also I ought to leave a further remark for the use
of posterity, concerning the manner of people's infecting
one another; namely, that it was not the sick people only
from whom the plague was immediately received by
others that were sound, but the well. To explain myself,
by the sick people I mean those who were known to be
sick, had taken their beds, had been under cure, or had
swellings and tumours upon them, and the like; these
everybody could beware of; they were either in their beds
or in such condition as could not be concealed.

By the well I mean such as had received the contagion,
and had it really upon them, and in their blood, yet did
not show the consequences of it in their countenances;
nay, even were not sensible of it themselves, as many
were not for several days. These breathed death in every
place, and upon everybody who came near them; nay,
their very clothes retained the infection, their hands
would infect the things they touched, especially if they
were warm and sweaty, and they were generally apt to
sweat too.

Now it was impossible to know these people, nor did
they sometimes, as I have said, know themselves to be
infected. These were-the people that so often dropped
down and fainted in the streets; for oftentimes they would
go about the streets to the last, till on a sudden they i
would sweat, grow faint, sit down at a door and die. It
is true, finding themselves thus, they would struggle hard
to get home to their own doors, or at other times would i
be just able to go into their houses and die instantly; 1
other times they would go about till they had the very .
tokens come out upon them, and yet not know it, and
would die in an hour or two after they came home, but
be well as long as they were abroad. These were the '
dangerous people; these were the people of whom the
well people ought to have been afraid; but then, on
the other side, it was impossible to know them.

And this is the reason why it is impossible in a visita-
tion to prevent the spreading of the plague by the utmost
human vigilance, viz., that it is impossible to know the
infected people from the sound, or that the infected peo-
ple should perfectly know themselves. I knew a man who
conversed freely in London all the season of the plague
in 1665, and kept about him an antidote or cordial, on

urpose to take when he thought himself in any danger,-
and he had such a rule to know or have warning of the
danger by as indeed I never met with before or since.
How far it may be depended on I know not. He had a
wound in his leg, and whenever he came among any
people that were not sound, and the infection began to
affect him, he said he could know it by that signal, viz.,
that his wound in his leg would smart, and look pale and
white; so as soon as ever he felt it smart it was time for
him to withdraw, or to take care of himself, taking his
drink, which he always carried about him for that pur-
pose. Now it seems he f0und his wound would smart
many times when he was in company with such who
thought themselves to be sound, and who appeared so to
one another; but he would presently rise up and say pub-
licly, "Friends here is somebody in the room that has the
plague," and so w0uld immediately break up the com-
pany. This was indeed a faithful monitor to all people
that the-plague is not to be avoided by those that con-
verse promiscuously in a town infected, and people have
it when they know it not, and that they likewise give it
to others when they know not that they have it them-
selves; and in this case shutting up the well or removing
the sick will not do it, unless they can go back and shut
up all those that the sick had conversed with, even before
they knew themselves to be sick, and none knows how
far to carry that back, or where to stop; for none knows
when, or where, or how they may have received the in-
fection, or from whom.

This I take to be the reason which makes so many peo-
ple talk of the air being corrupted and infected, and that
they need not be cautious of whom they converse with,
for that the contagion was in the air. I have seen them in
strange agitations and surprises on this account. "I have
never come near any infected body," says the disturbed
person; "I have conversed with none but sound, healthy
people, and yet I have gotten the distemper!" "I am sure
I am struck from Heaven," says another, and he falls to -
the serious part. Again, the first goes on exclaiming, "I
have come near no infection or any infected person; I

am sure it is in the air. We draw in death when we .

breathe, and therefore 't is the hand of God; there is no
withstanding it." And this at last. made many people,
being hardened to the danger, grow less>>concerned at
it, and less cautious towards the latter end of the time,
and when it was come to its height, than they were at
first. Then, with a kind of a Turkish predestinarianism,
they would say, if it pleased God to strike them, it was
all one whether they went abroad or stayed at home; they _
could not escape it, and therefore they went boldly about,

W ..~a~..'.m-.-..r . .l - 2 . . 1

' V A..." .1
even into infected houses and infected company; visited
sick people; and, in short, lay in the beds with their wives
or relations when they were infected. And what was the
consequence, but the same that is the consequence in
Turkey, and in those countries where they do those
things, namely, that they were infected too, and died by
hundreds and thousands?

I would be far from lessening the awe of the judgments
of God and the reverence to His providence, which ought
always to be on our minds on such occasions as these.
Doubtless the visitation itself is a stroke from Heaven
upon a city, or country, or nation where it falls; a mes-
senger of His vengeance, and a loud call to that nation,
or country, or city to humiliation and repentance, ac-
cording to that of the prophet Jeremiah (xviii. 7, 8): "At
what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and con-
cerning a kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and
to destroy it; if that nation, against whom I have pro-
nounced, turn from their evil, I will repent of the evil
that I thought to do unto them." Now to prompt due im-
pressions of the awe of God on the minds of men on such
occasions, and not to lessen them, it is that I have left
those minutes upon record.

I say, therefore, I reflect upon no man for putting the
reason of those things upon the immediate hand of God,
and the appointment and direction of His providence;
nay, on the contrary, there were many wonderful deliv-
erances of persons from infection, and deliverances of
persons when- infected, which intimate singular and re-
markable providence in the particular instances to which
they refer, and I esteem my own deliverance to be one
next to miraculous, and do record it with thankfulness.

But when I am speaking of the plague as a distemper
' arising from natural causes, we must consider it as it was
really propagated by natural means; nor is it at all the
less a judgment for its being under the conduct of human
causes and effects; for, as the Divine Power has formed
the whole scheme of nature and maintains nature in its
course, so the same Power thinks fit to let His own actings
with men, whether of mercy or judgment, to go on in the
ordinary course of natural causes, and He is pleased to
act by those natural causes as the ordinary means, ex-
cepting and reserving to Himself nevertheless a power to
act in a supernatural way when He sees occasion. Now
't is evident that in the case of an infection there is no
apparent extraordinary occasion for supernatural opera-
tion, but the ordinary course of things appears suficiently
armed, and made capable of all the eflects that Heaven'
usually directs by a contagion. Among these causes and
effects, this of the secret conveyance of infection, imper-
ceptible and unavoidable, is more than sufficient to exe-
cute the fierceness of Divine vengeance, without putting
it upon supematurals and miracle.

The acute penetrating nature of the disease itself was
such, and the infection was received so imperceptibly,
that the most exact caution could not secure us while in
the place. But I must be allowed to believe--and I have
so many examples fresh in my memory to convince me of
it, that I think none can resist their evidence--I say, I
must be allowed to believe that no one in this whole
nation ever received the sickness or infection but who
received it in the ordinary way of infection from some-
body, or the clothes, or touch, or stench of somebody that
was infected before. '

The manner of its coming first to London proves this
also, viz., by goods brought over from Holland, and
brought thither from the Levant, the first breaking of it
out in a house in Long Acre where those goods were car:
ried and first opened, its spreading from that house to
other houses by the visible unwary conversing with those
who were sick, and the infecting the parish officers who
were employed about the persons dead, and the like.
These are known authorities for this great foundation
point, that it went on and proceeded from person to per-
son and from house to house, and no otherwise. In the
first house that was infected there died four persons. A
neighbour, hearing the mistress of the first house was
sick, went to visit her, and went home and gave the dis-
temper to her family, and died, and all her household.
A minister, called to pray with the first sick person in the
secOnd house, was said to sicken immediately, and die
with several more in his house. Then the physicians be-
gan to consider, for they did not at first dream of a gen-
eral contagion. But the physicians being sent to inspect
the bodies, they assured the people that it was neither
more or less than the plague, with all its terrifying par-
ticulars, and that it threatened an universal infection, so
many people having already conversed with the sick or
distempered, and having, as might be supposed, received
infection from them, that it would be impossible to put a
stop to it.

Here the opinion of the physicians agreed with my
observation afterwards, namely, that the danger was
spreading insensibly, for the sick could infect none but
those that came within reach of the sick person, but that
one man who may have really received the infection and
knows it not, but goes abroad and about as a sound per-
son, may give the plague to a thousand people, and they
to greater numbers in proportion, and neither the person
giving the infection or the persons receiving it know any-
thing of it, and perhaps not feel the effects of it for sev-
eral days after.

For example, many persons in the time of this visitation
never perceived that they were infected till they found,
to their unspeakable surprise, the tokens come out upon
them; after which they seldom lived six hours, for those
spots they called the tokens were really gangrene spots,
or mortified flesh in small knobs as broad as a little silver
penny, and hard as a piece of callus or horn; so that,
when the disease was come up to that length, there was
nothing could follow but certain death, and yet, as I said,
they knew nothing of their being infected, nor found
themselves so much as out of order, till those mortal
marks were upon them. But everybody must allow that
they were infected in a high degree before, and must
have been so some time, and consequently their breath,
their sweat, their very clothes, were contagious for many
days before. '

This occasioned a vast variety of cases, which physi-
cians would have much more opportunity to remember
than I; but some came within the compass of my observa-
tion or hearing, of which I shall name a few.

A certain citizen who had lived safe and untouched
till the month of September, when the weight of the dis-
temper lay more in the city than it had done before, was
mighty cheerful, and something too bold, as I think it
was, in his talk of how secure he was, how cautious he
had been, and how he had never come near any sick
body. Says another citizen, a neighbour of his, to him one
day, "Do not be too confident, Mr --; it is hard to say
who is sick and who is well, for we see men alive and
well to outward appearance one hour, and dead the
next." "That is true," says the first man, for he was not a
man presumptuously secure, but had escaped a long
while, and men, as I said above, especially in the city,
began to be over-easy upon that score. "That is true,"
says he; "I do not think myself secure, but I hope I have
not been in company with any person that there has been
any danger in." "No?" says his neighbour. "Was not you '
at the Bull Head Tavern in Gracechurch Street with Mr.
-- the night before last?" "Yes," says the first, "I was;
but there was nobody there that we had any reason to
think dangerous." Upon which his neighbour said no
more, being unwilling to surprise him; but this made him
more inquisitive, and as his neighbour appeared back--
ward, he was the more impatient, and in a kind of warmth
says he aloud, "Why, he is not dead, is he?" Upon which
his neighbour still was silent, but cast up his eyes and
said something to himself; at which the first citizen
turned pale, and said no more but this, "Then I am a dead
man too," and went home immediately and sent for a
neighbouring apothecary to give him something pre-
ventive, for he had not yet found himself ill; but the
apothecary, opening his breast, fetched a sigh, and said
no more but this, "Look up to God;" and the man died
in a few hours.

Now let any man judge from a case like this if it is
possible for the regulations of magistrates, either by shut-
ting up the sick or removing them, to stop an infection
which spreads itself from man to man, even while they
are perfectly well and insensible of its approach, and
may be so for many days.

It may be proper to ask here how long it may be sup-
posed men might have the seeds of the contagion in them
before it discovered itself in this fatal manner, and how
long they might go about seemingly whole, and yet be
contagious to all those that came near them. I believe
the most experienced physicians cannot answer this ques-
tion directly any more than I can; and something an ordi-
nary observer may take notice of, which may pass their
observation. The opinion of physicians abroad seems to
be that it may lie dormant in the spirits, or in the blood-
vessels, a very considerable time. Why else do they exact
a quarantine of those who come into their harbours and
ports from suspected places? Forty days is, one would
think, too long for nature to struggle with such an enemy
as this, and not conquer it or yield to it. But I could not
think, by my own observation, that they can be infected
so as to be contagious to others above fifteen or sixteen
days at furthest; and on that score it was, that when a
house was shut up in the city, and any one had died of
the plague, but nobody appeared to be ill in the family
for sixteen or eighteen days after, they were not so strict
but that they would connive at their going privately
abroad; nor would people be much afraid of them after-
ward, but rather think they were fortified the better, hav-
ing not been vulnerable when the enemy was in their
own house; but we sometimes found it had lain much
longer concealed.

Upon the foot of all these observations I must say, that
though Providence seemed to direct my conduct to be
otherwise, yet it is my opinion, and I must leave it as a
prescription, viz., that the best physic against the plague
is to run away from it. I know people encourage them-
selves by saying God is able to keep us in the midst of
danger, and able to overtake us when we think ourselves
out of danger; and this kept thousands in the town, whose
carcasses went into the great pits by cartloads, and who,
if they had fled from the danger, had, I believe, been safe
from the disaster; at least 't is probable they had been
safe.

And were this very fundamental only duly considered
by the people on any future occasion of this or the like
nature, I am persuaded it would put them upon quite
different measures for managing the people from those
that they took in 1665, or than any that have been taken
abroad that I have heard of. In a word, they would con-
sider of separating the people into smaller bodies, and
removing them in time farther from one another, and not
let such a contagion as this, which is indeed chiefly dan-
gerous to collected bodies of people, find a million of
people in a body together, as was very near the case be-
fore, and would certame be the case if it should ever
appear again.

The plague, like a great fire, if a few houses only are
contiguous where it happens, can only burn a few houses;
or if it begins in a single, or, as we call it, a lone house,
can only burn that lone house where it begins. But if it
begins in a close-built town or city and gets a head, there
its fury increases, it rages over the whole place, and con-
sumes all it can reach.

I could propose many schemes on the foot of which
the government of this city, if ever they should be under
the apprehensions of such another enemy (God forbid
they should), might ease themselves of the greatest part
of the dangerous people that belong to them; I mean
such as the begging, starving, labouring poor, and among
them chiefly those who, in case of a siege, are called the
useless mouths, who being then prudently and to their
own advantage disposed of, and the wealthy inhabitants
disposing of themselves, and of their servants and chil-
dren, the city and its adjacent parts would be so effectu-
ally evacuated that there would not be above a tenth part
of its people left together for the disease to take hold
upon. But suppose them to be a fifth part, and that two
hundred and fifty thousand people were left, and if it
did seize upon them, they would, by their living so much
at large, be much better prepared to defend themselves

it than if the same number of people lived close together
in one smaller city, such as Dublin or Amsterdam, or
the like.

It is true hundreds, yea, thousands of families fled
away at this last plague, but then, of them, many fled
too late, and not only died in their flight, but denied the
distemper with them into the countries where they went,
and infected those whom they went among for safety;
which confounded the thing, and made that be a propa-
gation of the distemper which was the best means to
prevent it; and this too is an evidence of it, and brings me
back to what I only hinted at before, but must speak
more fully ti here, namely, that men went about appar-
ently well many days after they had the taint of the dis-
ease in their vitals, and after their spirits were so seized
as that they could never escape it, and that all the while
they did so they were dangerous to others; I say, this
proves that so it was; for such people infected the very
towns they went through, as well as the families they
went among; and it was by that means that almost all the
great towns in England had the distemper among them,
more or less,- and always they would tell you such a Lon-
doner or such a Londoner brought it down. V

It must not be omitted that when I speak of those peo-
ple who were really thus dangerous, I suppose them to
be utterly ignorant of their own condition; for if they
really knew their circumstances to be such as indeed they
were, they must have been a kind of wilful murderers if
they would have gone abroad among healthy people, and
it would have verified indeed the suggestion which 'I
mentioned above, and which I thought seemed untrue,
viz., that the infected people were utterly careless as to
. giving the infection to others, and rather forward to do it
than not; and I believe it was partly from this very thing
that they raised that suggestion, which I hope was not
really true in fact.

I confess no particular case is sufficient to prove a gen-
eral, but I could name several people within the knowl-
edge of some of their neighbours and families yet living
who showed the contrary to an extreme. One man, a
master of a family in.my neighbourhood, having had the
distemper, he thought he had it given him by a poor
workman whom he employed, and whom he went to his
house to see, or went for some work that he wanted to
have finished, and he had some apprehensions even while
he was at the poor workman's dobr, but did not discover
it fully; but the next day it discovered itself, and he was
taken very ill, upon which he immediately caused him-
self to be carried into an outbuilding which he had in
his yard, and where there was a chamber over a work-
house, the man being a brazier. Here he lay, and here he
died, and would be tended by none of his neighbours,
but by a nurse from abroad; and would not suffer his
wife, nor children, nor servants to come up into the room,
lest they should be infected, but sent them his blessing
and prayers for them by the nurse, who spoke it to them
at a distance, and all this for fear of giving them the
distemper, without which he knew, as they were kept up,
they could not have it.

And here I must observe also that the plague, as I sup-
pose all distempers do, operated in a different manner on
differing constitutions; some were immediately over-
whelmed with it, and it came to violent fevers, vomit-
ings, insufferable headaches, pains in the back, and so
up to ravings and ragings with those pains; others with
swellings and tumours in the neck or groin, or armpits,
which till they could be broke put them into insufferable
agonies and torment; while others, as I have observed,
were silently infected, the fever preying upon their spir-
its insensibly, and they seeing little of it till they fell into
swooning, and faintings, and death without pain.

I am not physician enough to enter into the particular
reasons and manner of these differing eflects of one and
the same distemper, and of its differing operation in sev-
eral bodies; nor is it my business here to record the ob-
servations which I really made, because the doctors them-selves have done that part much more effectually than I'

can do, and because my opinion may in some thingsdif-
fer from theirs.-I am only relating what I know, or have
heard, or believe of the particular cases, and what fell
within the compass of my view, and the difierent nature
of the infection, as it appeared in the particular cases
Which I have related; but this may be added too, that
though the former sort of those cases, namely, those
openly visited, were the worst for themselves as to pain
----I mean those that had such fevers, vomitings, head-
aches, pains, and swellings, because they died in such a
dreadful manner--yet the latter had the worst state of
the disease; for in the former they frequently recovered,
especially if the swellings broke, but the latter was in-
evitable death; no cure, no help could be possible, noth-
ing could follow but death.

And it was worse also to others, because, as above, it
secretly, and unperceived by others, or by themselves,
cormnunicated death to those they conversed with, the
penetrating poison insinuating itself into their blood in
a manner which it is impossible to describe, or indeed
conceive.

This infecting and being infected without so much as
its being known to either person is evident from two sorts
of cases which frequently happened at that time; and
there is hardly anybody living who was in London dur-
ing the infection but must have known several of the
cases of both sorts. .

1. Fathers and mothers have gone about as if they ha
been well, and have believed themselves to be so, till
they have insensibly infected and been the destruction
of their whole families, which they would have been far
from doing if they had the least apprehensions of their

being unsound and dangerous themselves. A family, -

' I Vila,"

whose story I have heard, was thus infected by the fa- .

35).". .<
ther; and the distemper began to appear upon some of
them even before he found it upon himself. But search-
ing more narrowly, it appeared he had been affected
some time, and as soon as he found that his family had
been poisoned by himself he went distracted, and would
have laid violent hands upon himself, but was kept from
that by those who looked to him, and in a few days died.

2. The other particular is, that many people having
been well to the best of their own judgment, or by the
best observation which they could make of themselves
for several days, and only finding a decay of appetite, or
a light sickness upon their stomachs; nay, some whose
appetite has been strong, and even craving, and only a
light pain in their heads, have sent for physicians to
know what ailed them, and have been found, to their
great surprise, at the brink of death, the tokens upon
them, or the plague grown up to an incurable height.

It was very sad to reflect how such a person as this last
mentioned above had been a walking destroyer perhaps
for a week or a fortnight before that; how he had ruined
those that he would have hazarded his life to save, and
had been breathing death upon them, even perhaps in
his tender kissing and embracings of his own children.
Yet thus certainly it was, and often has been, and I could
give many particular cases where it has been so. If then
the blow is thus insensibly striking; if the arrow flies
thus unseen, and cannot be discovered, to what purpose
are all the schemes for shutting up or removing the sick
people? Those schemes cannot take place but upon those
that appear to be sick, or to be infected; whereas there
are among them at the same time thousands of people
who seem to be well, but are all that while carrying
death with them into all companies which they come
into.

This frequently puzzled our physicians, and especially
the apothecaries and surgeons, who knew not how to dis-
cover the sick from the'sound; they all allowed that it
was really so, that many people had the plague in their
very blood, and preying upon their spirits, and were in
themselves but walking putrefied carcasses, whose breath
was infectious and their sweat poison, and yet were as
well to look on as other people, and even knew it not
themselves; I say, they all allowed that it was really true
in fact, but they knew not how to propose a discovery.

My friend Dr. Heath was of opinion that it might be
known by the smell of their breath; but then, as he said,
who durst smell to that breath for his information? since,
to know it, he must draw the stench of the plague up into
his own brain, in order to distinguish the smell! I have
heard it was the opinion of others that it might be dis-
tinguished by the party's breathing upon a piece of glass,
where, the breath condensing, there might living crea-
tures be seen by a microscope, of strange, monstrous, and
frightful shapes, such as dragons, snakes, serpents, and
devils, horrible to behold. But this I very much question
the truth of, and we had no microscopes at that time, as
I remember, to make the experiment with.

It was the opinion also of another learned man, that
the breath of such a person would poison and instantly
kill a bird; not only a small bird, but even a cock or hen,
and that, if it did not immediately kill the latter, it would
cause them to be roupy, as they call it; particularly that
if they had laid any eggs at any time, they would be all
rotten. But those are opinions which I never found sup-
ported by any experiments, or heard of others that had
seen it; so I leave them as I find them, only with this re-
mark, namely, that I think the probabilities are very
strong for them.

Some have proposed that such persons should breathe
hard upon warm water, and that they would leave an un-
usual scum upon it, or upon several other things, espe-
cially such as are of a glutinous substance and are apt to
receive a scurn and support it.

But from the whole I found that the nature of this con-
tagion was such that it was impossible to discover it at
all, or to prevent its spreading from one to another by
any human skill.

Here was indeed one dificulty which I could never
thoroughly get over to this time, and which there is but
one way of answering that I know of, and it is this, viz.,
the first person that died of the plague was on Decem-
ber 20, or thereabouts, 1664, and in or about Long Acre;
whence the first person had the infection was generally
said to be, from a parcel of silks imported from Holland,
and first opened in that house.

But after this we heard no more of any person dying of
the plague, or of the distemper being in that place, till
the 9th of February, which was about seven weeks after,
and then one more was buried out of the same house.
Then it was hushed, and we were perfectly easy as to the
public for a great while; for there were no more entered
in the weekly bill to be dead of the plague till the 22nd
of April, when there was two more buried, not out of the
same house, but out of the same street; and, as near as I
can remember, it was out of the next house to the first.
This was nine weeks asunder, and after this we had no
more till a fortnight, and then it broke out in several
streets, and spread every way. Now the question seems to
lie thus: Where lay the seeds of the infection all this
while? How came it to stop so long, and not stop any
longer? Either the distemper did not come immediately
by contagion from body to body, or if it did, then a body
may be capable to continue infected without the disease
discovering itself many days, nay, weeks together; even
not a quarantine of days only, but soixantine; not only
forty days, but sixty days or longer.

It is true there was, as I observed at first, and is well
known to many yet living, a very cold winter and a long
frost, which continued three months, and this, the doc-
tors say, might check the infection; but then the learned
must allow me to say, that if, according to their notion,
the disease was, as I may say, only frozen up, it would,
like a frozen river, have returned to its usual force and
current when it thawed, whereas the principal recess of
this infection, which was from February to April, was
after the frost was broken and the weather mild and
warm.

But there is another way of solving all this difficulty,
which I think my own remembrance of the thing will
supply; and that is, the fact is not granted, namely, that
there died none in those long intervals, viz., from the 20th
of December to the 9th of February, and from thence to
the 22nd of April. The weekly bills are the only evidence
on the other side, and those bills were not of credit
enough, at least with me, to support an hypothesis or de-
termine a question of such importance as this; for it was
our received opinion at that time, and I believe upon
very good grounds, that the fraud lay in the parish offi-
cers, searchers, and persons appointed to give account
of the dead, and what diseases they died of; and as peo-
ple were very loth at first to have the neighbours believe
their houses were infected, so they gave money to pro-
cure, or otherwise procured, the dead persons to be re-
turned as dying of other distempers; and this I know was
practised afterwards in many places, I believe I might V
say in all places where the distemper came, as will be
seen by the vast increase of the numbers placed in the
weekly bills under other articles of diseases during the
time of the infection. For example, in the months of July
and August, when the plague was coming on to its high-
est pitch, it was very ordinary to have from a thousand
to twelve hundred, nay, to almost fifteen hundred a week
of other distempers. Not that the numbers of those dis-
tempers were really increased to such a degree, but the
great number of families and houses where really the in-
fection was, obtained the favour to have their dead be

returned of other distempers, to prevent the shutting up
their houses. For example:--

Dead of other diseases beside the plague---

From the 18th July to the 25th . . . . . . . 942
" 25th July " 1st August . . . . . 1004
" lst August " 8th . . . . . . . 1213
" 8th " 15th . . . . . . . 1439
" 15th " 22nd . . . . . . . 1331
" 22nd " 29th . . . . . . . 1394
" 29th " 5th September . . . . 1264
" 5th September to the 12th. . . . . . 1056
" 12th " 19th . . . . . . . 1132
" 19th " 26th . . . . . . . 927

Now it was not doubted but the greatest part of these,
or a great part of them, were dead of the plague, but the
officers were prevailed with to retum them as above, and
the numbers of some particular articles of distempers dis-
covered it as follows:--

Aug. Aug. Aug. Aug. Aug. Sept. Sept. Sept.
lto 8to 15m 22 to "to 60.6 lite 191:0
8. 15. 22. 29. Sept. 5. 12 19 26.

Fever. . . . 314 858 848 388 364 382 309 268
Spotted Fever . 174 190 166 165 157 97 101 65
Surfeit . . . 85 87 74 99 68 45 49 so
Teeth. . . . 90 113 111 133 188 128 121 112,'

------_--------_
There were several other articles which bore a propor- .
tion to these, and which, it is easy to perceive, were in-
creased on the same account, as aged, consumptions,
vomitings, imposthumes, gripes, and the like, many of
which were not doubted to be infected people; but as it
was of the utmost consequence to families not to be
known to be infected, if it was possible to avoid it, so
they took all the measures they could to have it not be-
lieved, and if any died in their houses, to get them re-
turned to the examiners, and by the searchers, as having
died of other distempers.

This, I say, will account for the long interval which, as
I have said, was between the dying of the first persons
that were returned in the bill to be dead of the plague
and the time when the distemper spread openly and
could not be concealed.

Besides, the weekly bills themselves at that time evi-
dently discover this truth; for, while there was no men-
tion of the plague, and no increase after it had been
mentioned, yet it was apparent that there was an increase
of those distempers which bordered nearest upon it; for
example, there were eight, twelve, seventeen of the
spotted fever in a week, when there were none, or but
very few, of the plague; whereas before, one, three, or
four were the ordinary weekly numbers of that distem-
per. Likewise, as I observed before, the burials increased
weekly in that particular parish and the parishes adjacent
more than in any other parish, although there were none
set down of the plague; all which tell us, that the infec-
tion was handed on, and the succession of the distemper
really preserved, though it seemed to us at that time to
be ceased, and to come again in a manner surprising.

It might be, also, that the infection might remain in
other parts of the same parcel of goods which atfirst it
came in, and which might not be perhaps opened, or at
least not fully, or in the clothes of the first infected per-
son; for I cannot think that anybody could be seized with
the contagion in a fatal and mortal degree for nine weeks

namely, that the infection is retained in bodies appar-
ently well, and conveyed from them to those they con-
verse with, while it is known to neither the one nor the

Great were the confusions at that time upon this very
account, and when people began to be convinced that
the infection was received in this surprising manner from
persons apparently well, they began to be exceeding shy
and jealous of every one that came near them. Once, on
a public day, whether a Sabbath-day or not I do not re-
member, in Aldgate Church, in a pew full of people, on a
sudden one fancied she smelt an ill smell. Immediately
she fancies the plague was in the pew, whispers her no-
tion or suspicion to the next, then rises and goes out of
the pew. It immediately took with the next, and so to

adjoining pews, got up and went out of the church, no-
body knowing what it was offended them, or from whom.

This immediately filled everybody's mouths with one
preparation or other, such as the old women directed, and
some perhaps as physicians directed, in order to prevent
infection by the breath of others, insomuch that if we
came to go into a church when it was anything full of
people, there would be such a mixture of 'smells at the

was like a smelling-bottle; in one comer it was all per-
fumes; in another, aromatics, balsamics, and variety of
drugs and herbs; in another, salts and spirits, as every
one was furnished for their own preservation. Yet I ob-
served that after people were possessed, as I have said,
With the belief, or rather assurance, of the infection be-
ing thus carried on by persons apparently in health, the
churches and meeting-houses were much thinner of peo-
ple than at other times before that they used to be. For
this is to be said of the people of London, that during
the whole time of the pestilence the churches or meetings
were never wholly shut up, nor did the people decline
coming out to the public worship of God, except only in
some parishes when the violence of the distemper was
more particularly in that parish at that time, and even
then no longer than it continued to be so.

Indeed nothing was inore strange than to see with what
courage the people went to the public service of God
even at that time, when they were afraid to stir out of
their own houses upon any other occasion; this, I mean,
before the time of desperation, which I have mentioned
already. This was a proof of the exceeding populousness
of the city at the time of the infection, notwithstanding
the great numbers that were gone into the country at the
first alarm, and that fled out into the forests and woods
when they were further terrified with the extraordinary
increase of it. For when we came to see the crowds and
throngs of people which appeared on the Sabbath-days
at the churches, and especially in those parts of the town
where the plague was abated, or where it was not yet
come to its height, it was amazing. But of this I shall
speak again presently. I return in the meantime to the
arh'cle of infecting one another at first, before people
came to right notions of the infection, and of infecting
one another. People were only shy of those that were
really sick, a man with a cap upon his head, or with
clothes round his neck, which was the case of those that
had swellings there. Such was indeed frightful; but when
we saw a gentleman dressed, with his band on and his
gloves in his hand, his hat upon his head, and his hair
combed, of such we had not the least apprehensions, and
people conversed a great while freely, especially with
their neighbours and such as they knew. But when the
physicians assured us that the danger was as Well from
the sound, that is, the seemingly sound, as the sick, and
that those people who thought themselves entirely free
were oftentimes the most fatal, and that it came to be
generally understood that people were sensible of it, and
of the reason of it; then, I sa , they began to be jealous of
everybody, and a vast number of people locked them-
selves up, so as not to come abroad into any company at
all, nor sufier any that had been abroad in promiscuous
company to come into their houses, or near them, at least
not so near them as to be within the reach of their breath
or of any smell from them; and when they were obliged
to converse at a distance with strangers, they would al-
ways have preservatives in their mouths and about their
clothes to repel and keep oif the infection.

It must be acknowledged that when people began to
use these cautions they were less exposed to danger, and
the infection did not break into such houses so furiously
as it did into others before; and thousands of families
were preserved, speaking with due reserve to the direc-
tion of Divine Providence, by that means.

But it was impossible to beat anything into the heads
of the poor. They went on with the usual impetuosity of
their tempers, full of outcries and lamentations when
taken, but madly careless of themselves, foolhardy and
obstinate, while they were well. Where they could get
_ employment they pushed into any kind of business, the

most dangerous and the most liable to infection; and if
they were spoken to, their answer would be, "I must trust
toGodfmthahifIamtakemthenIamprovidedfor,
and there is an end of me," and the like. Or thus, "Why,
what must I do? 'I can't starve. I had as good have the
plague as perish for want. I have no work; what could I
do? I must do this or beg." Suppose it was burying the
dead, or attending the sick, or watching infected houses,
which were all terrible hazards; but their tale was gen-
erally the same. It is true, necessity was a very justifiable,
warrantable plea, and nothing could be better; but their
way of talk was much the same where the necessities
were not the same. This adventurous conduct of the poor
was that which brought the plague among them in a most
furious manner, and this, joined to the distress of their
circumstances when taken, was the reason why they died
so by heaps; for I cannot say I could observe one jot of
better husbandry among them, I mean the labouring
poor, while they were all well and getting money than
there was before, but as lavish, as extravagant, andas
thoughtless for to-morrow as ever; so that when they
came to be taken sick they were immediately in the ut-
most distress, as well for want as for sickness, as well for
lack of food as lack of health.

This misery of the poor I had many occasions to be an
eye-witness of, and sometimes also of the charitable as-
sistance that some pious people daily gave to such, send-
ing them relief and supplies both of food, physio, and
other help, as they found they wanted; and indeed it is
a debt of justice due to the temper of the people of that
day to take notice here, that not Only great sums, very
great sums of money were charitably sent to the Lord
Mayor and aldermen for the assistance and support of
the poor distempered people, but abundance of private
people daily distributed large sums of money for their

relief, and sent people about to inquire into the condi- ,

tion of particular distressed and visited families, and re-
lieved them; nay, some pious ladies were so transported
with zeal in so good a work, and so confident in the pro-
tection of Providence in discharge of the great duty of
charity, that they went about in person distributing ahns
to the poor, and even visiting poor families, though sick
and infected, in their very houses, appointing nurses to
attend those that wanted attending, and ordering apothe-
caries and surgeons, the first to supply them with drugs or
plaisters, and such things as they wanted; and the last to
lance and dress the swellings and tumours, where such
were wanting; giving their blessing to the poor in sub-
stantial relief to them, as well as hearty prayers for them.

I will not understake to say, as some do, that none of
those charitable people were sufiered to fall under the
calamity itself; but this I may say, that I never knew any
one of them that miscarried, which I mention for the
encouragement of others in case of the like distress; and
doubtless, if they that give to the poor lend to the Lord,
and He will repay them, those that hazard their lives to
give to the poor, and to comfort and assist the poor in
such a misery as this, may hope to be protected in the
work.

Nor was this charity so extraordinary eminent only in a
few, but (for I cannot lightly quit this point) the charity
of the rich, as well in the city and suburbs as from the
country, was so great that, in a word, a prodigious num-
ber of people who must otherwise inevitably have per-
ished for want as well as sickness were supported and
subsisted by it; and though I could never, nor I believe
any one else, come to a full knowledge of what was so
contributed, yet I do believe that, as I heard one say that
was a critical observer of that part, there was not only
many thousand pounds contributed, but many hundred
thousand pounds, to the relief of the poor of this dis-
tressed, afllicted city; nay, one man affirmed to me that
he could reckon .up above one hundred thousand pounds
a week, which was distributed by the church wardens at
the several parish vestries by the Lord Mayor and alder-
men in the several wards and precincts, and by the par-
ticular direction of the'court and of the justices respec-
tively in the parts where they resided, over and above the
private charity distributed by pious hands in the manner
I speak of; and this continued for many weeks together.

I confess this is a very great sum; but if it be true that
there was distributed in the parish of Cripplegate only,
PS17,800 in one week to the relief of the poor, as I heard
reported, and which I really believe was true, the other
may not be improbable.

It was doubtless to be reckoned among the many sig-
nal good providences which attended this great city, and
of which there were many other worth recording,--I say,
this was a very remarkable one, that it pleased God thus
to move the hearts of the people in all parts of the king-
dom so cheerfully to contribute to the relief and support
of the poor at London, the good consequences of which
were felt many ways, and particularly in preserving the
lives and recovering the health of so many thousands, and
keeping so many thousands of families from perishing
and starving.

And now I am talking of the merciful disposition of
Providence in this time of calamity, I cannot but men-
tion again, though I have spoken several times of it al-
ready on other accounts, I mean that of the progression
of the distemper; how it began at one end of the town,
and proceeded gradually and slowly from one part to
another, and like a dark cloud that passes over our heads,
which, as it thickens and overcasts the air at one end,
clears up at the other end; so, while the plague went on
raging from west to east, as it went forwards east, it .
abated in the west, by which means those partsof the
town which were not seized, or who were left, and where
it had spent its fury, were (as it were) spared to help and
assist the other; whereas, had the distemper spread itself
over the whole city and suburbs at once, raging in all
places alike, as it has done since in some places abroad,
the whole body of the people must have been over-
whelmed, and there would have died twenty thousand a
day, as they say there did at Naples; nor would the peo-
ple have been able to have helped or assisted one an-
other.

For it must be observed that where the plague was in
its full force, there indeed the people were very miser-
able, and the consternation was inexpressible. But a little
before it reached even to that place, or presently after it
was gone, they were quite another sort of people; and
I cannot but acknowledge that there was too much of
that common temper of mankind to be found among us
all at that time, namely, to forget the deliverance when
the danger is past. But I shall come to speak of that part
a am.

gIt must not be forgot here to take some notice of the
state of trade during the time of this common calamity,
and this with respect to foreign trade, as also to our home
trade. .

As to foreign 'trade, there needs little to be said. The
trading nations of Europe were all afraid of us; no port
of France, or Holland, or Spain, or Italy would admit our
ships or correspond with us; indeed we stood on ill terms
with the Dutch, and were in a furious war with them,
but though in a bad condition to fight abroad, who had
such dreadful enemies to struggle with at home.

Our merchants were accordingly at a full stop; their
ships could go nowhere, that is to say, to no place abroad;
their manufactures and merchandise, that is to say, of
our growth, would not be touched abroad. They were as
A JOURNAL or THE PLAGUE YEAR 581'

much afraid of our goods as they were of our people;
and indeed they had reason, for our woollen manufac-
tures are as retentive of infection as human bodies, and
if packed up by persons infected, would receive the in-
fection, and be as dangerous to touch as a man would be
that was infected; and therefore, when any English vessel
arrived in foreign countries, if they did take the goods on
shore, they always caused the bales to be opened and
aired in places appointed for that purpose. But from Lon-
don they would not suffer them to come into port, much
less to unlade their goods, upon any terms whatever;
and this strictness was especially used with them in Spain
and Italy. In Turkey, and the islands of the Arches in-
deed, as they are called, as well those belonging to the
Turks as to the Venetians, they were not so very rigid.
In the first there was no obstruction at all; and four ships
which were then in the river loading for Italy, that is, for
Leghorn and Naples, being denied product, as they call
it, went on to Turkey, and were freely admitted to un-
lade their cargo without any difficulty, only that when
they arrived there, some of their cargo was not fit for sale
in that country, and other parts of it being consigned to
merchants at Leghorn, the captains of the ships had no
right nor any orders to dispose of the goods; so that great
incouveniences followed to the merchants. But this was
nothing but what the necessity of affairs required, and
the merchants at Leghorn and Naples having notice given
them, sent again from thence to take care of the effects,
which were particularly consigned to those ports, and to
bring back in other ships such as were improper for the
markets at Smyrna and Scanderoon.

The inconveniences in Spain and Portugal were still
greater, for they would by no means suffer our ships,
especially those from London, to come into any of their
ports, much less to unlade. There was a report that one
of our ships having by stealth delivered her cargo, among
which was some bales of English cloth, cotton, kerseys,
and such-like goods, the Spaniards caused all the goods
to be burned, and punished the men with death who
were concerned in carrying them on shore. This, I be-
lieve, was in part true, though I do not aflirm it; but it is
not at all unlikely, seeing the danger was really very
great, the infection being so violent in London.

I heard, likewise, that the plague was carried into those
countries by some of our ships, and particularly to the
port of Faro, in the kingdom of Algarve, belonging to the
King of Portugal, and that several persons died of it
there, but it was not confirmed.

On the other hand, though the Spaniards and Portu-
guese were so shy of us, it is most certain that the plague,
as has been said, keeping at first much at that end of the
town next Westminster, the merchandising part of the
town, such as the city and the water-side, was perfectly
sound till at least the beginning of July, and the ships in
the river till the beginning of August; for to the lst of
July there had died but seven within the whole city, and
but sixty within the liberties, but one in all the parishes
of Stepney, Aldgate, and Whitechapel, and but two in all
the eight parishes of Southwark. But it was the same
thing abroad, for the bad news was gone over the whole
world that the city of London was infected with the
plague, and there was no inquiring there how the infec-
tion proceeded, or at which part of the town it was begun
or was reached to.

Besides, after it began to spread it increased so fast,
and the bills grew so high all on a sudden, that it was to
no purpose to lessen the report of it, or endeavour to
:make the people abroad think it better than it was; the
account which the weekly bills gave in was sufficient;
and that there died two thousand to three or four thou-
sand a week was sufficient to alarm the whole trading
part of the world, and the following time being so dread-
ful also in the very city itself put the whole world, I say,
upon their guard against it.

You may be sure, also, that the report of these things
lost nothing in the carriage. The plague was itself very
terrible, and the distress of the people very great, as you
may observe of what I have said. But the rumour was
infinitely greater, and it must not be wondered that our
friends abroad, as my brother's correspondents in par-
ticular were told there, namely, in Portugal and Italy,
where he chiefly traded, [said] that in London there died
twenty thousand in a week; that the dead bodies lay un-
buried by heaps; that the living were not sufficient to
bury the dead or the sound to look after the sick; that all
the kingdom was infected likewise, so that it was an uni-
versal malady, such as was never heard of in those parts
of the world; and they could hardly believe us when we
gave them an account how things really were, and how
there was not above one-tenth part of the people dead;
that there was 500,000 left that lived all the time in the
town; that now the people began to walk the streets
again, and those who were fled to return, there was no
miss of the usual throng of people in the streets, except
as every family might miss their relations and neighbours,
and the like. I say they could not believe these things;
and if inquiry were now to be made in Naples, or in other
cities on the coast of Italy, they would tell you that there
was a dreadful infection in London so many years ago, in
which, as above, there died twenty thousand in a week,
810., just as we have had it reported in London that there
was a plague in the city of Naples in the year 1656, in
which there died 20,000 people in a day, of which I have
had very good satisfaction that it was utterly false.

But these extravagant reports were very prejudicial to
our trade, as well as unjust and injurious in themselves,
for it was a long time after the plague was quite over
before our trade could recover itself in those parts of the
world; and the Flemings and Dutch, but especially the
last, made very great advantages of it, having all the mar-
ket to themselves, and even buying our manufactures in
several parts of England where the plague was not, and
carrying them to Holland and Flanders, and from thence
transporting them to Spain and to Italy, as if they had
been of their own making.

But they were detected sometimes and punished, that
is to say, their goods confiscated, and ships also; for if it
was true that our manufactures as well as our people
were infected, and that it was dangerous to touch or to
open and receive the smell of them, then those people
ran the hazard by that clandestine trade, not only of car-
rying the contagion into their own country, but also of
infecting the nations to whom they traded with those
goods, which, considering how many lives might be
lost in consequence of such an action, must be a trade
that no men of conscience could suffer themselves to be
concerned in.

I do not take upon me to say that any harm was done,
I mean of that kind, by those people. But I doubt I need
not make any such proviso in the case of our own coun-
try; for either by our people of London, or by the com-
merce which made' their conversing with all sorts of
people in every county and of every considerable town
necessary, I say, by this means the plague was first or
last spread all over the kingdom, as well in London as
in all the cities and great towns, especially in the trading
manufacturing towns and seaports; so that, first or last,
all the considerable places in England were visited more
or less, and the kingdom of Ireland in some places, but
not so universally. How it fared with the people in Scot-
land I had no opportunity to inquire.
It is to be observed that while the plague continued so
violent in London, the outports, as they are called, en-
joyed a very great trade, especially to the adjacent coun-
tries and to our own plantations. For example, the towns
of Colchester, Yarmouth, and Hull, on that side of Eng-
land, exported to Holland and Hamburg the manufac-

tures of the adjacent counties for several months after the
' trade with London was, as it were, entirely shut up; like-
wise the cities of Bristol and Exeter, with the port of
Plymouth, had the like advantage to Spain, to the Ca-
naries, to Guinea, and to the West Indies, and particu-
larly to Ireland; but as the plague spread itself every way
after it had been in London to such a degree as it was in
August and September, so all, or most of those cities and
towns, were infected first or last, and then trade was, as
it were, under a general embargo, or at a full stop, as I
shall observe further when I speak of our home trade.

One thing, however, must be observed, that as to ships
coming in from abroad, as many you may be sure did,
some who were out in all parts of the world a consider-
able while before, and some who when they went out
knew nothing of an infection, or at least of one so ter-
rible; these came up the river boldly, and delivered their
cargoes as they were obliged to do, except just in the two
months of August and September, when the weight of
the infection lying, as I may say, all below Bridge, no-
body durst appear in business for a while. But as this
continued but for a few weeks, the homeward-bound
ships, especially such whose cargoes were not liable to
spoil, came to an anchor for a time, short of the Pool,1 or
freshwater part of the river, even as low as the river
Medway, where several of them ran in, and others lay at
the Nore, and in the Hope below Gravesend. So that by

1 That part of the river where the shllps lie up when they come
home is called the Pool, and takes in al the river on both sides of
the water, from the Tower to Cuckold's Point and Limehouse.
the latter end of October there was a very great fleet of
homeward-bound ships to come up, such as the like had
not been known for many years.

Two particular trades were carried on by water-
carriage all the while of the infection, and that with
little or no interruption, very much to the advantage and
comfort of the poor distressed people of the city, and
those were the coasting trade for corn and the Newcastle
trade for coals.

The first of these was particularly carried on by small
vessels from the port of Hull and other places on the
Number, by which great quantities of corn were brought
in from Yorkshire and Lincolushire. The other part of this
corn-trade was from Lynn, in Norfolk, from Wells and
Burnham, and from Yarmouth, all in the same county;
and the third branch was from the river Medway, and
from Milton, Feversham, Margate, and Sandwich, and
all the other little places and ports round the coast of
Kent and Essex.

There was also a very good trade from the coast of
Suffolk with corn, butter, and cheese; these vessels kept
a constant course of trade, and without interruption came
up to that market known still by the name of Bear Key,
where they supplied the city plentifully with corn when
land-carriage began to fail, and when the people began
to be sick of coming from many places in the country.

This also was, much of it, owing to the prudence and
conduct of the Lord Mayor, who took such care to keep
the masters and seamen from danger when they came up,
causing their corn to be bought off at any time they
wanted a market (which, however, was very seldom),
and causing the corn-factors immediately to unlade and
deliver the vessels loaden with corn, that they had very
little occasion to come out of their ships or vessels, the
money being always carried on board to them, and put
into a pail of vinegar before it was carried.
The second trade was that of coals from Newcastle-
upon-Tyne, without which the city would have been
greatly distressed; for not in the streets only, but in pri-
vate houses and families, great quantities of coals were
then burnt, even all the summer long, and when the
weather was hottest, which was done by the advice of
the physicians. Some indeed opposed it, and insisted that
to keep the houses and rooms hot was a means to propa-
gate the distemper, which was a fermentation and heat
already in the blood; that it was known to spread and
increase in hot weather, and abate in cold; and there-
fore they alleged that all contagious distempers are the
worse for heat, because the contagion was nourished and
gained strength in hot weather, and was, as it were,
propagated in heat.

Others said they granted that heat in the climate might
propagate infection, as sultry, hot weather fills the air
with vermin and nourishes innumerable numbers and
kinds of venomous creatures, which breed in our food,
in the plants, and even in our bodies, by the very stench
of which infection may be propagated; also, that heat in
the air, or heat of weather, as we ordinarily call it, makes
bodies relax and faint, exhausts the spirits, opens the
pores, and makes us more apt to receive infection, or any
evil influence, be it from noxious pestilential vapours, or
any other thing in the air; but that the heat of fire, and
especially of coal fires kept in our houses, or near us, had
a quite diEerent operation, the heat being not of the same
kind, but quick and fierce, tending not to nourish but to
consume and dissipate all those noxious fumes which the
other kind of heat rather exhaled and stagnated than
separated and burnt up. Besides, it was alleged that the
sulphurous and nitrous particles that are often found to
be in the coal, with that bituminous substance which
burns, are all assisting..to clear and purge the air, and
render it wholesome and safe to breathe in, after the
noxious particles, as above, are dispersed and burnt up.

The latter opinion prevailed at that time, and, as I
must confess, I think with good reason, and the experi-
ence of the citizens confirmed it, many houses which had
constant fires kept in the rooms having never been in-
fected at all; and I must join my experience to it, for I
found the keeping good fires kept our rooms sweet and
wholesome, and I do verily believe made our whole fam-
ily so, more than would otherwise have been.

But I return to the coals as a trade. It was with no
little difficulty that this trade was kept open, and par-
ticularly because, as we were in an open war with the
Dutch at that time, the Dutch capers at first took a great
many of our collier--ships, which made the rest cautious,
and made them to stay to come in fleets together. But
after some time the capers were either afraid to take
them, or their masters, the States, were afraid they
should, and forbade them, lest the plague should be
among them, which made them fare the better.

For the security of these northern traders, the coal-
ships were ordered by my Lord Mayor not to come up
into the Pool above a certain number at a time, and
ordered lighters and other vessels, such as the wood-
mongers, that is, the wharf-keepers or coal-sellers, fur-
nished, to go down and take out the coals as low as
Deptford and Greenwich, and some farther down.

Others delivered great quantities of coals in particular
places, where the ships could come to the shore, as at
Greenwich, Blackwall, and other places, in vast heaps,
as if to be kept for sale, but were then fetched away, after
the ships which brought them were gone, so that the
seamen had no communication with the river-men, nor
so much as came near one another.

Yet all this caution could not effectually prevent the
distemper getting among the colliery, that is to say,
among the ships, by which a great many seamen died of
it; and that which was still worse was, that they carried
it down to Ipswich and Yarmouth, to Newcastle-upon-
Tyne, and other places on the coast, where, especially at
Newcastle and at Sunderland, it carried OR a great num-
ber of people.

The making so many fires, as above, did indeed con-
sume an unusual quantity of coals; and that upon one or
two stops of the ships coming up, whether by contrary
weather or by the interruption of enemies I do not re-
member, but the price of coals was exceeding dear, even
as high as PS4 a chalder; but it soon abated when the
ships came in, and as afterwards they had a freer passage,
the price was very reasonable all the rest of that year.

The public fires which were made on these occasions,
as I have calculated it, must necessarily have cost the city
about 200 chalders of coals a week, if they had contin-
ued, which was indeed a very great quantity; but as it
was thought necessary, nothing was spared. However, as
some of the physicians cried them down, they were not
kept alight above four or five days. The fires were or-
dered thus:--

One at the Custom House, one at Billingsgate, one at'
Queenhithe, and one at the Three Cranes; one in Black-
friars, and one at the gate of Bridewell; one at the corner
of Leadenhall Sheet and Gracechurch; one at the north
and one at the south gate of the Royal Exchange; one at
Guild Hall, and one at Blackwell Hall gate; one at the
Lord Mayor's door in St. Helen's, one at the west en-
trance into St. Paul's, and one at the entrance into Bow
Church. I do not remember whether there was any at the
city gates, but one at the Bridge-foot there was, just by
St. Magnus Church.

I know some have quarrelled since that at the ex-
periment, and said thatthere died the more people be
cause of those fires; but I am persuaded those that say so
offer no evidence to prove it, neither can I believe it on
any account whatever.

It remains to give some account of the state of trade at
home in England during this dreadful time, and particu-
larly as it relates to the manufactures and the trade in the
city. At the first breaking out of the infection there was, '
as it is easy to suppose, a very great fright among the
people, and consequently a general stop of trade, except
in provisions and necessaries of life; and even in those
things, as there was a vast number of people fled and a
very great number always sick, besides the number which
died, so there could not be above two-thirds, if above
one-half, of the consumption of provisions in the city as
used to be.

It pleased God to send a very plentiful year of corn
and fruit, but not of hay or grass, by which means bread
was cheap, by reason of the plenty of corn. Flesh was
cheap, by reason of the scarcity of grass; but butter and
cheese were dear, for the same reason, and hay in the
market just beyond Whitechapel Bars was sold at PS4
per load. But that affected not the poor. There was a
most excessive plenty of all sorts of fruit, such as apples,
pears, plums, cherries, grapes, and they were the cheaper
because of the want of people; but this made the poor
eat them to excess, and this brought them into fluxes,
griping of the guts, surfeits, and the like, which often
precipitated them into the plague.

But to come to matters of trade. First, foreign exporta-
tion being stopped or at least very much interrupted and
rendered difficult, a general stop of all those manufac-
tures followed of course which were usually brought for
exportation; and though sometimes merchants abroad
were importunate for goods, yet little was sent, the pas-
sages being so generally stopped that the English ships
would not be admitted, as is said already, into their port.

This put a stop to the manufactures that were for ex-
portation in most parts of England, except in some out-
ports; and even that was soon stopped, for they all had
the plague in their turn. But though this was felt all over
England, yet, what was still worse, all intercourse of trade
for home consumption of manufactures, especially those
which usually circulated through the Londoners' hands,
was stopped at once, the trade of the city being stopped.

All kinds of handicrafts in the city, &c., tradesmen and
mechanics, were, as I have said before, out of employ,
and this occasioned the putting off and dismissing an in-
numerable number of journeymen and workmen of all
sorts, seeing nothing was done relating to such trades
but what might be said to be absolutely necessary.

This caused the multitude of single people in London
to be unprovided for, as also of families whose living de-
pended upon the labour of the heads of those families;
I say, this reduced them to extreme misery; and I must
confess it is for the honour of the city of London, and
will be for many ages, as long as this is to be spoken of,
that they were able to supply with charitable provision
the wants of so many thousands of those as afterwards.
fell sick and were distressed, so that it may be safely
aver-red that nobody perished for want, at least that the
magistrates had any notice given them of.

This stagnation of our manufacturing trade in the coun-
try would have put the people there to much greater
difficulties, but that the master-workmen, clothiers and
others, to the uttermost of their stocks and strength, kept
on making their goods to keep the poor at work, believ-
ing that as soon as the sickness should abate they would
have a quick demand in proportion to the decay of their
trade at that time. But as none but those masters that
were rich could do thus, and that many were poor and
not able, the manufacturing trade in England sufiered
greatly, and the poor were pinched all over England by
the calamity of the city of London only.

It is true that the next year made them full amends by
another terrible calamity upon the city; so that the city
by one calamity impoverished and weakened the coun-
try, and by another calamity, even terrible too of its kind,
enriched the country and made them again amends; for
an infinite quantity of household stuff, wearing apparel,
and other things, besides whole warehouses filled with
merchandise and manufactures, such as come from all
parts of England, were consumed in the fire of London
the next year after this terrible visitation. It is incredible
what a trade this made all over the whole kingdom, to
make good the want and to supply that loss; so that, in
short, all the manufacturing hands in the nation were set
on work, and were little enough for several years to sup-
ply the market and answer the demands. All foreign mar-
kets also were empty of our goods by the stop which had
been occasioned by the plague, and before an open trade
was allowed again; and the prodigious demand at home
falling in, joined to make a quick vent for all sorts of
goods; so that there never was known such a trade all
over England for the time as was in the first seven years
after the plague, and after the fire of London.

It remains now that I should say something of the mer-
ciful part of this terrible judgment. The last week in
September, the plague being come to its crisis, its fury
began to assuage. I remember my friend Dr. Heath,
coming to see me the week before, told me he was sure
that the violence of it would assuage in a few days; but
when I saw the weekly bill of that week, which was the
highest of the whole year, being 8297 of all diseases, I
upbraided him with it; and asked him what he had made
his judgment from. His answer, however, was not so
much to seek as I thought it would have been. "Look
you," says he, "by the number which are at this time sick
and infected, there should have been twenty thousand
dead the last week instead of eight thousand, if the in-
veterate mortal contagion had been as it was two weeks
ago; for then it ordinarily killed in two or three days,
now not under eight or ten; and then not above one in
five recovered, whereas I have observed that now not
above two in five miscarry. And, observe it from me, the
next bill will decrease, and you will see many more peo-
ple recover than used to do; for though a vast multitude
are now everywhere infected, and as many every day fall
sick, yet there will not so many die as there did, for the
malignity of the distemper is abated;" adding that he be-
gan now to hope, nay, more than hope, that the infection
had passed its crisis and was going off; and accordingly
so it was, for the next week being, as I said, the last in
September, the bill decreased almost two thousand.

It is true the plague was still at a frightful height, and
the next bill was no less than 6460, and the next to that,
5720; but still my friend's observation was just, and it did
appear the people did recover faster and more in num-
ber than they used to do; and indeed, if it had not been
so, what had been the condition of the city of London?
For, according to my friend, there were not fewer than
60,000 people at that time infected, whereof, as above,
20,477 died, and near 40,000 recovered; whereas, had it
' been as it was before, 50,000 of that number would very
probably have died, if not more, and 50,000 more would
have sickened; for, in a word, the whole mass of pedple
began to sicken, and it looked as' if none would escape.

But this remark of my friend's appeared more evident
in a few weeks more, for the decrease went on, and an-
other week in October it decreased 1843, so that the
number dead of the plague was but 2665; and the next
week, it decreased 1413 more, and yet it was seen plainly
that there was abundance of people sick, nay, abundance
more than ordinary, and abundance fell sick every day,
but ( as above) the malignity of the disease abated.

Such is the precipitant disposition of our people
(whether it is so or not all over the world, that's none
of my particular business to inquire), but I saw it ap-
parently here, that as upon the first fright of the infec-
tion, they shunned one another, and fled from one an-
other's houses and from the city with an unaccountable
and, as I thought, unnecessary fright, so now, upon this
notion spreading, viz., that the distemper was not so
catching as formerly, and that if it was catched it was
not so mortal, and seeing abundance of people who really
fell sick recover again daily, they took to such a pre-
cipitant courage, and grew so entirely regardless of them-
selves and of the infection, that they made no more of
the plague than of an ordinary fever, nor indeed so much.
They not only went boldly into company with those who
had tumours and carbuncles upon them that were run-
ning, and consequently contagious, but ate and drank
with them, nay, into their houses to visit them, and even,
as I was told, into their very chambers where they lay
sick.

This I could not see rational. My friend Dr. Heath
allowed, and it was plain to experience, that the distem-
per was as catching as ever, and as many fell sick, but
only he alleged that so many of those that fell sick did
not die; but I think that while many did die, and that at
best the distemper itself was very terrible, the sores and
swellings'very tormenting, and the danger of death not
left out of the circumstance of sickness, though not so
frequent as before; all those things, together with the
exceeding tediousness of the cure, the loathsomeness of
the disease, and many other articles, were enough to de-
ter any man living from a dangerous mixture with the
sick people, and make them as anxious almost to avoid
the infection as before. .

Nay, there was another thing which made the mere
catching of the distemper frightful, and that was the ter-
rible burning of the caustics which the surgeons laid on
the swellings to bring them to break and to run, without
which the danger of death was very great, even to the
last. Also, the insufferable torment of the swellings,
which, though it might not make people raving and dis-
tracted, as they were before, and as I have given several _
instances of already, yet they put the patient to inex-
pressible torment; and those that fell into it, though they
did escape with life, yet they made bitter complaints of
those that had told them there was no danger, and sadly
repented their rashness and folly in venturing to run into
the reach of it.

Nor did this unwary conduct of the people end here,
for a great many that thus cast off their cautions suEered
more deeply still, and though many escaped, yet many
died; and at least it had this public mischief attending it,
that it made the decrease of burials slower than it would
otherwise have been. For as this notion ran like lightning
through the city, and people's heads were possessed with
it, even as soon as the first great decrease in the bills ap-
peared, we found that the two next bills did not de-
crease in proportion; the reason I take to be the people's _
running so rashly into danger, giving up all their former
cautious and care, and all the shyness which they used to
practise, depending that the sickness would not reach
them, or that if it did, they should not die.

The physicians opposed this thoughtless humour of the
people with all their might, and gave out printed direc-
tions, spreading them all over the city and suburbs, ad- s
vising the people to continue reserved, and to use still
the utmost caution in their ordinary conduct, notwith-
standing the decrease of the distemper, terrifying them
with the danger of bringing a relapse upon the whole
city, and telling them how such a relapse might be more
fatal and dangerous than the whole visitation that had
been already; with many arguments and reasons to ex-
plain and prove that part to them, and which are too
long to repeat here.

But it was all to no purpose; the audacious creatures
were so possessed with the first joy and so surprised with
the satisfaction of seeing a vast decrease in the weekly
bills, that they were impenetrable by any new terrors,
and would not be persuaded but that the bitterness of
death was past; and it was to no more purpose to talk to
them than to an east wind; but they opened shops, went
about streets, did business, and conversed with anybody
that came in their way to converse with, whether with
business or without, neither inquiring of their health or
so much as being apprehensive of any danger from them,
though they knew them not to be sound.

This imprudent, rash conduct cost a great many their
lives who had with great care and caution shut them-
selves up and kept retired, as it were, from all mankind,
and had by that means, under God's providence, been
preserved through all the heat of that infection.

This rash and foolish conduct, I say, of the people went
so far that the ministers took notice to them of it at last,
and laid before them both the folly and danger of it; and
this checked it a little, so that they grew more cautious.
But it had another effect, which they could not check;
for as the first rumour had spread not over the city only,
but into the country, it had the like effect, and the people
were so tired with being so long from London, and so
eager to come back, that they flocked to town without
fear or forecast, and began to show themselves in the"\_ ,1 ,
A JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR 597

streets, as if all the danger was over. It was indeed sur-
prising to see it, for though there died still from 1000 to
1800 a week, yet the people flocked to town as if all had
been well. _

The consequence of this was, that the bills increased
again 400 the very first week in November; and if I
might believe the physicians, there was above 3000 fell
sick that week, most of them newcomers, too.

One John Cook, a barber in St. Martin's-le-Grand, was
an eminent example of this; I mean of the hasty return
of the people when the plague was abated. This John
Cock had left the town with his whole family, and locked
up his house, and was gone in the country, as many others
did; and finding the plague so decreased in November
that there died but 905 per week of all diseases, he ven-
tured home again. He had in his family ten persons; that
is to say, himself and wife, five children, two apprentices,
and a maid-servant. He had not been returned to his
house above a week, and began to open his shop and
carry on his trade, but the distemper broke out in his
family, and within about five days they all died, except
one; that is to say, himself, his wife, all his five children,
and his two apprentices; and only the maid remained
alive.

But the mercy of God was greater to the rest than we
had reason to expect; for the malignity, as I have said, of
the distemper was spent, the contagion was exhausted,
and also the winter weather came on apace, and the air
was clear and cold, with some sharp frosts; and this in-
creasing still, most of those that had fallen sick recovered,
and the health of the city began to return. There were
indeed some returns of the distemper even in the month
of December, and the bills increased near a hundred;
but it went off again, and so in a short while things began
to return to their ownuchannel. And wonderful it was to
see how populous the city was again all on a sudden, so
that a stranger could not miss the numbers that were lost.
Neither was there any miss of the inhabitants as to their
dwellings, few or no empty houses were to be seen, or if
there were some, there was no want of tenants for them.

a time; it would be very uncharitable to judge otherwise
in a city so populous, and where the people were so de-
vout as they were here in the time of the visitation itself;
but except what of this was to be found in particular
families and faces, it must be acknowledged that the
general practice of the people was just as it was before,
and very little difference was to be seen.

Some, indeed, said things were worse; that the morals
of the people declined from this very time; that the peo-
ple, hardened by the danger they had been in, like sea-
men after a storm is over, were more wicked and more
stupid, more bold and hardened, in their vices and im-
moralities than they were before; but I will not carry it
so far neither. It would take up a history of no small

the course of things in this city came to be restored again,
and to run in their own channel as they did before.
Some parts'of England were now infected as Violently

and the magistrates of London began to set rules for our
conduct as to corresponding with those cities. It is true
we could not pretend to forbid their people coming to
London, because it was impossible to know them asun-
der, so, after many consultations, the Lord Mayor and
Court of Aldermen were obliged to drop it. All they could
do was to warn and caution the people not to entertain
in their houses or converse with any people who they
knew came from such infected places.

But they might as well have talked to the air, for the
people of London thought themselves so plague-free now
that they were past all admonitions; they seemed to de-
pend upon it that the air was restored, and that the air
was like a man that had had the small-pox, not capable of
being infected again. This revived that notion that the
infection was all in the air, that there was no such thing
as contagion from the sick people to the sound; and so
strongly did this whimsy prevail among people that they
ran all together promiscuously, sick and well. Not the
Mahometans, who, prepossessed with the principle of
predestination, value nothing of contagion, let it be in
what it will, could be more obstinate than the people of
London; they that were perfectly sound, and came out
of the wholesome air, as we call it, into the city, made
nothing of going into the same houses and chambers, nay,
even into the same beds, with those that had the dis-
temper upon them, and were not recovered.

Some, indeed, paid for their audacious boldness with
the price of their lives; an infinite number fell sick, and
the physicians had more work than ever, only with this
difference, that more of their patients recovered; that is
to say, they generally recovered, but certainly there were
more people infected and fell sick now, when there did '
not die above a thousand or twelve hundred in a week,
than there was when there died five or six thousand a
week, so entirely negligent were the people at that time
in the great and dangerous case of health and infection,
and so ill were they able to take or accept of the advice
of those who cautioned them for their good.

The people being thus returned, as it were, in general,
it was very strange to find, that in their inquiring after
their friends, some whole families were so entirely swept
away that there was no remembrance of them left, neither
was anybody to be found to possess or show any title to
that little they had left; for in such cases what was to
be found was generally embezzled and purloined, some
gone one way, some another.

It was said such abandoned effects came to the king,
as the universal heir, upon which we are told, and I sup-
pose it was in part true, that the king granted all such,
as deodands, to the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen
of London, to be applied to the use of the poor, of whom
there were very many. For it is to be observed, that
though the occasions of relief and the objects of distress
were very many more in the time of the violence of the
plague than now after all was over, yet the distress of
the poor was more now a great deal than it was then,
because all the sluices of general charity were now shut.
People supposed the main occasion to be over, and so
stopped their hands; whereas particular objects were still
very moving, and the distress of those that Were poor was
very great indeed.

Though the health of the city was now very much re-
stored, yet foreign trade did not begin to stir, neither
would foreigners admit our ships into their ports for a
great while. As for the Dutch, the misunderstandings be-
tween our court and them had broken out into a war the
year before, so that our trade that way was wholly inter-
rupted; but Spain and Portugal, Italy and Barbary, as
also Hamburg and all the ports in the Baltic, these were
all shy of us a great while, and would not restore trade
with us for many months.

The distemper sweeping away such multitudes, as I
have observed, many if not all the out-parishes were
obliged to make new burying-grounds, besides that I
have mentioned in Bunhill Fields, some of which were
continued, and remain in use to this day. But others were
left off, and which, I confess, I mention with some reflec-
tion, being converted into other uses or built upon after-
wards, the dead bodies were disturbed, abused, dug up
again, some even before the flesh of them was perished
from the bones, and removed like dung or rubbish to
other places. Some of those which came within the reach
of my observation are as follow:

1. A piece of ground beyond Coswell Street, near
Mount Mill, being some of the remains of the old lines
or fortifications of the city, where abundance were buried
promiscuously from the parishes of Aldersgate, Clerkena
well, and even out of the city. This ground, as I take
it, was since made a physio garden, and after that has
been built upon. V

2. A piece of ground just over the Black Ditch, as it
was then called, at the end of Holloway Lane, in Shore--
ditch parish. It has been since made a.yard for keeping
hogs, and for other ordinary uses, but is quite out of use
as a burying-ground.

3. The upper end of Hand Alley, in Bishopsgate Street,
which was then a green field, and was taken in particu-
larly for Bishopsgate parish, though many of the carts
out of the city brought their dead thither also, particu-
larly out of the parish of St. Allhallows on the Wall. This
place I cannot mention without much regret. It was, as
I remember, about two or three years after the plague
was ceased that Sir Robert Clayton came to be possesed
of the ground. It was reported, how true I know not,~
that it fell to the king for want .of heirs, all those who
had any right to it being carried oil by the pestilence,
and that Sir Robert Clayton obtained a grant of it from
King Charles II. But however he came by it, certain it is a
the ground was let out .to build on, or built upon, by his
order. The first house built upon it was a large fair house,
still standing, which faces the street or way now called
Hand Alley, which, though called an alley, is as wide as
a street. The houses in the same row with that house
northward are built on the very same ground where the
poor people were buried, and the bodies, on opening the
ground for the foundations, were dug up, some of them
remaining so plain to be seen that the women's skulls
were distinguished by their long hair, and of others the
flesh was not quite perished; so that the people began
to exclaim loudly against it, and some suggested that it
might endanger a return of the contagion; after which the
bones and bodies, as fast as they came at them, were
. carried to another part of the same ground and thrown
all together into a deep pit, dug on purpose, which now
is to be known in that it is not built on, but is a passage
to another house at the upper end of Rose Alley, just
against the door of a meeting-house, which has been
built there many years since; and the ground is pali-
sadoed off from the rest of the passage, in a little square;
there lies the bones and remains of near two thousand
bodies, carried by the dead carts to their grave in the"
one year.

4. Besides this, there was a piece of ground in Moor-
fields, by the going into the street which is now called
Old Bethlem, which was enlarged much, though not
wholly taken in on the same occasion.

[N. B.--The author of this journal lies buried in that
very ground, being at his own desire, his sister having
been buried there a few years before]

5. Stepney parish, extending itself from the east part of
London to the north, even to the very edge of Shoreditch
Churchyard, had a piece of ground taken in to bury their
dead close to the said churchyard, and which for that
very reason was left open, and is since, I suppose, taken
into the same churchyard. And they had also two other
burying-places in Spitalfields, one where since a chapel
or tabernacle has been built for ease to this great parish,
and another in Petticoat Lane. '

There were no less than five other grounds made use
of for the parish of Stepney at that time, one where now
stands the parish church of St. Paul, Shadwell, and the
other where now stands the parish church of St. John's
at Wapping, both which had, not the names of parishes
at that time, but were belonging to Stepney parish.

I could name many more, but these coming within my
particular knowledge, the circumstance, I thought, made
it of use to record them. From the whole, it may be ob-
served that they were obliged in this time of distress to
take in new burying-grounds in most of the out-parishes
for laying the prodigious numbers of people which died
in so short a space of time; but why care was not taken
to keep those places separate from ordinary uses, that so
the bodies might rest undisturbed, that I cannot answer
for, and must confess I think it was wrong. Who were to
blame I know not.

I should have mentioned that the Quakers had at that
time also a burying-ground set apart to their use, and
which they still make use of; and they had also a par-
ticular dead-cart to fetch their dead from their houses;
and the famous Solomon Eagle, who, as I mentioned be-
fore, had predicted the plague as a judgment, and ran
naked through the streets, telling the people that it was -
come upon them to punish them for their sins, had his
own wife died the very next day of the plague, and was
carried, one of the first in the Quakers' dead-cart, to their

new burying-ground. .
I might have thronged this account with many more

remarkable things which occurred in the time of the in-'
fection, and particularly what passed between the Lord
Mayor and the Court, which was then at Oxford, and
what directions were from time to time received from
the Government for their conduct on this critical occa-
sion. But really the Court concerned themselves so little,
and that little they did was of so small import, that I do
not see it of much moment to mention any part of it here,
except that of appointing a monthly fast in the city and
the sending the royal charity to the relief of the poor,
both which I have mentioned before.

Great was the reproach thrown on those physicians
who left their patients during the sickness, and now they
came to town again nobody cared to employ them. They
were called deserters, and frequently bills were set up
upon their doors and written, "Here is a doctor to be let,"
so that several of those physicians were fain for a while
to sit still and look about them, or at least remove their
dwellings, and set up in new places and among new ac-
quaintance. The like was the case with the clergy, whom
the people were indeed very abusive to, writing verses
and scandalous reflections upon them, setting upon the
church-door, "Here is a pulpit to be let," or sometimes,
"to be sold," which was worse.

It was not the least of our misfortunes, that with our
infection, when it ceased, there did not cease the spirit
of strife and contention, slander and reproach, which was
really the great troubler of the nation's peace before. It
was said to be the remains of the old animosities, which
had so lately involved us all in blood and disorder. But
as the late Act of Indemnity had laid asleep the quarrel
itself, so the Government had recommended family and
personal peace upon all occasions to the whole nation.

But it could not be obtained, and particularly after
the ceasing of the plague in London, when any one that
had seen the condition which the people had been in, and
how they caressed one another at that time, promised to
have more charity for the future, and to raise no more
reproaches; I say, any one that had seen them then would
have thought they would have come together with an-
other spirit at last. But, I say, it could not be obtained.
The quarrel remained; the Church and the Presbyterians
were incompatible. As soon as the plague was removed,
the Dissenting ousted ministers who had supplied the
pulpits which were deserted by the incumbents retired;
they could expect no other but that they should im-
mediately fall upon them and harass them with their
penal laws, accept their preaching while they were sick,
and persecute them as soon as they were recovered again;
this even we that were of the Church thought was very
hard, and could by no means approve of it.

But it was the Government, and we could say nothing
to hinder it; we could only say it was not our doing, and
we could not answer for it.

On the other hand, the Dissenters reproaching those
ministers of the Church with going away and deserting
their charge, abandoning the people in their danger, and
when they had most need of comfort, and the like, this
we could by no means approve, for all men have not the
same faith and the same courage, and the Scripture com-
mands us to judge the most favourably and according
to charity.

A plague is a formidable enemy, and is armed with
terrors that every man is not sufficiently fortified to re-
sist or prepared to stand the shock against. It is very
certain that a great many of the clergy who were in cir-
cumstances to do it withdrew and fled for the safety of
their lives; but 't is true also that a great many of them
stayed, and many of them fell in the calamity and in the
discharge of their duty.

It is true some of the Dissenting turned-out ministers
stayed, and their courage is to be commended and highly
valued, but these were not abundance; it cannot be said
that they all stayed, and that none retired into the coun-
try, any more than it can be said of the Church clergy
that they all went away. Neither did all those that went
away go without substituting curates and others in their
places, to do the offices needful and to visit the sick, as
far as it was practicable; so that, upon the whole, an
allowance of charity might have been made on both sides,
and we should have considered that such a time as this
. of 1665 is not to be paralleled in history, and that it is
not the stoutest courage that will always support men in
such cases. I had not said this, but had rather chosen
to record the courage and religious zeal of those of both
sides, who did hazard themselves for the service of the
poor people in their distress, without remembering that
any failed in their duty on either side. But the want of
temper among us has made the contrary to this neces-
sary, some that stayed not only boasting too much of
themselves, but reviling those that fled, branding them
with cowardice, deserting their flocks, and acting the
part of the hireling, and the like. I recommend it to the
charity of all good people to look back and reflect duly
upon the terrors of the time, and whoever does so will
see that it is not an ordinary strength that could support
it. It was not like appearing in the head of an army or
charging a body of horse in the field, but it was charg-
ing Death itself on his pale horse; to stay was indeed to
die, and it could be esteemed nothing less, especially as
things appeared at the latter end of August and the be-
ginning of September, and as there was reason to expect
them at that time; for no man expected, and I dare say
believed, that the distemper would take so sudden a turn
as it did, and fall immediately 2000 in a week, when there
was such a prodigious number of people sick at that time
as it was known there was; and then it was that many
shifted away that had stayed most of the time before.

Besides, if God gave strength to some more than to
others, was it to boast of their ability to abide the stroke,
and upbraid those that had not the same gift and sup
port, or ought not they rather to have been humble and
thankful if they were rendered more useful than their
brethren?

I think it ought to be recorded to the honour of such
men, as well clergy as physicians, surgeons, apothecaries,
magistrates, and officers of every kind, as also all useful
people who ventured their lives in discharge of their
duty, as most certainly all such as stayed did to the last
degree, and several of all these kinds did not only venture
but lose their lives on that sad occasion.

I was once making a list of all such, I mean of all those
professions and employments who thus died, as I call it,
in the way of their duty; but it was impossible for a
private man to come at a certainty in the particulars. I
only remember that there died sixteen clergymen, two
aldermen, five physicians, thirteen surgeons, within the
city and liberties before the beginning of September. But
this being, as I said before, the great crisis and extremity
of the infection, it can be no complete list. As to inferior
people, I think there died six-and-forty constables and
head-boroughs in the two parishes of Stepney and White-
chapel; but I could not carry my list on, for when the
violent rage of the distemper in September came upon
us, it drove us out of all measures. Men did then no more _
die by tale and by number. They might put out a weekly
bill, and call them seven or eight thousand, or what they
pleased; 't is certain they died by heaps, and were buried
by heaps, that is to say, without account. And if I might
believe some people, who were more abroad and more
conversant with those things than I--though I was public
enough for one that had no more business to do than I
had,--I say, if I may believe them, there was not many
less buried those first three weeks in September than
20,000 per week. However the others aver the truth of
it, yet I rather choose to keep to the public account; seven
and eight thousand per week is enough to make good all
that I have said of the terror of those times; and it is
much to the satisfaction of me that write, as well as those
that read, to be able to say that everything is set down
with moderation, and rather within compass than be-
yond it.

Upon all these accounts, I say, I could wish, when we
were recovered, our conduct had been more distinguished
for charity and kindness in remembrance of the past
calamity, and not so much a valuing ourselves upon our
boldness in staying, as if all men were cowards that fly
from the hand of God, or that those who stay do not
sometimes owe their courage to their ignorance and de-
spising the hand of their Maker, which is a criminal kind
of desperation, and not a true courage.

I cannot but leave it upon record that the civil officers,
such as constables, head-boroughs, Lord Mayor's and
sheriffs'-men, as also parish-officers, whose business it was
to take charge of the poor, did their duties in general with
as much courage as any, and perhaps with more, be-
cause their work was attended with more hazards, and
lay more among the poor, who were more subject to be
infected, and in the most pitiful plight when they were
taken with the infection. But then it must be added to
that a great number of them died; indeed it was scarce
possible it should be otherwise.

I have not said one word here about the physio or

rible occasion--I mean we that went frequently abroad
up and down street, as I did; much of this was talked of
in the books and bills of our quack doctors, of whom I
have said enough already. It may, however, be added,
that the College of Physicians were daily publishing sev-
eral preparations, which they had considered of in the
process of their practice, and which being to be had in
print, I avoid repeating them for that reason.

0n thing I could not help observing, what befell one
of the quacks, who published that he had a most ex.
cellent preservative against the plague, which whoever
kept about them should never be infected or liable to
infection. This man, who, we may reasonably suppose,
did not go abroad without some of this excellent preserva-
tive in his pocket, yet was taken by the distemper, and
carried 05 in two or three days.

I am not of the number of the physio-haters or physic-
despisers; on the contrary, I have often mentioned the
regard I had to the dictates of my particular friend Dr.
Heath; but yet I must acknowledge I made use of little
or nothing, except, as I have observed, to keep a prepara-
tion of strong scent to have ready, in case I met with any-
thing of ofiensive smells, or went too near any burying-
place or dead body.

Neither did I do, what I know some did, keep the
spirits always high and hot with cordials and wine, and

1/ such things, and which, as I observed, one learned

' physician used himself so much to as that he could not
leave them off when the infection was quite gone, and so
became a sot for all his life after.

I remember my friend the doctor used to say that there
was a certain set of drugs and preparations which were
all certainly good and useful in the case of an infection,
out of which, or with which, physicians might make an
infinite variety of medicines, as the ringers of bells make
several hundred difierent rounds of music by the chang-
ing and order of sound, but in six bells, and that all these
preparations shall be really very good: "Therefore," said
he, "I do not wonder that so vast a throng of medicines is
offered in the present calamity, and almost every physi-
cian prescribes or prepares a difierent thing, as his judg-
ment or experience guides him; but," says my friend, "let
all the prescriptions of all the physicians in London be
examined, and it will be found that they are all com-
pounded of the same things, with such variations only as
the particular fancy of the doctor leads him to; so that,"
says he, "every man, judging a little of his own constitu-
tion and manner of his living, and circumstances of his
being infected, may direct his own medicines out of the
ordinary drugs and preparations. Only that," says he,
"some recommend one thing as most sovereign, and some a
another. Some," says he, "think that pill. rufi., which is
called itself the antipestilential pill, is the best prepara-
tion that can be made; others think that Venice treacle
is sufficient of itself to resist the contagion; and I," says
he, "think as both these think, viz., that the last is good
to take beforehand to prevent it, and the last, if touched,
to expel it." According to this opinion, I several times took
Venice treacle, and a sound sweat upon it, and thought
myself as well fortified against the infection as any one
could be fortified by the power of physio.

As for quackery and mountebanks, of which the town
was so full, I listened to none of them, and have observed
often since, with some wonder, that for two years after
the plague I scarcely saw or heard of one of them about
town. Some fancied they were all swept away in the in-
fection to a man, and were for calling it a particular mark
of God's vengeance upon them for leading the poor peo-
rather they fled into the country, and tried their practices
upon the people there, who were in apprehension of the
infection before it came among them.

This, however, is certain, not a man of them appeared
for a great while in or about London. There were, in-
deed, several doctors who published bills recommending
their several physical preparations for cleansing the body,
as they call it, after the plague, and needful, as they said,
for such people to take who had been visited and had
been cured; whereas, I must own, I believe that it was
the opinion of the most eminent physicians at that time
that the plague was itself a sufficient purge, and that
those who escaped the infection needed no physio to
cleanse their bodies of any other things, the running
sores, the tumours, &c., which were broke and kept open
by the directions of the physicians, having sufficiently
cleansed them; and that all other distempers, and causes
of distempers, were effectually carried off that way; and
as the physicians gave this as their opinions wherever
they came, the quacks got little business.

There were, indeed, several little hurries which hap-
pened after the decrease of the plague, and which,
whether they were contrived to fright and disorder the
people, as some imagined, I cannot say, but sometimes
we were told the plague would retum by such a time;
and the famous Solomon Eagle, the naked Quaker I have
mentioned, prophesied evil tidings every day; and several
others telling us that London had not been sufficiently
scourged, and that sorer and severer strokes were yet be-
. hind. Had they stopped there, or had they descended
to particulars, and told us that the city should the next
year be destroyed by fire, then, indeed, when we had seen
it come to pass, we should not have been to blame to
have paid more than a common respect to their prophetic
spirits; at least we should have wondered at them, and

'x
have been more serious in our inquiries after the meaning
of it, and whence they had the foreknowledge. But as
they generally told us of a relapse into the plague, we
have had no concern since that about them; yet by those
frequent clamours, we were all kept with some kind of
apprehensions constantly upon us; and if any died sud-
denly, or if the spotted fevers at any time increased, we
were presently alarmed; much more if the number of the
plague increased, for to the end of the year there were
always between 200 and 300 of the plague. On any of
these occasions, I say, we were alarmed anew.

Those who remember the city of London before the
fire must remember that there was then no such place
as that we now call Newgate Market, but that in the
middle of the street which is now called Blowbladder
Street, and which had its name from the butchers, who
used to kill and dress their sheep there (and who, it
seems, had a custom to blow up their meat with pipes
to make it look thicker and fatter than it was, and were
punished there for it by the Lord Mayor); I say, from
the end of the street towards Newgate there stood two
long rows of shambles for the selling meat.

It was in those shambles that two persons falling down
dead, as they were buying meat, gave rise to a rumour
that the meat was all infected, which, though it might
aEright the people, and spoiled the market for two or
three days, yet it appeared plainly afterwards that there
was nothing of truth in the suggestion. But nobody can
account for the possession of fear when it takes hold of
the mind.

However, it pleased God, by the continuing of the
winter weather, so to restore the health of the city that by
February following we reckoned the distemper quite
ceased, and then we were not so easily frighted again.

There was still a question among the learned, and at
first perplexed the people a little, and that was in what
manner to purge the house and goods where the plague
had been, and how to render them habitable again, which
had been left empty during the time of the plague.
Abundance of perfumes and preparations were pre-
scribed by physicians, some of one kind and some of an-
other, in which the people who listened to them put
themselves to a great, and indeed, in my opinion, to an
unnecessary expense; and the poorer people, who only
set open their windows night and day, burned brim-
stone, pitch, and gunpowder, and such things in their
rooms, did as well as the best; nay, the eager people, who,
as I said above, came' home in haste and at all hazards,
found little or no inconvenience in their houses, nor in the
goods, and did little or nothing to them.

However, in general, prudent, cautious people did en
ter into some measures for airing and sweetening their
houses, and burned perfumes, incense, benjamin, rosin,
and sulphur, in their rooms close shut up, and then let the
air carry it all out with a blast of gunpowder; others
caused large fires to be made all day and all night for
several days and nights; by the same token that two or
three were pleased to set their houses on fire, and so
efiectually sweetened them by burning them down to
the ground; as particularly one at Ratclifi, one in Hol-
born, and one at Westminster; besides two or three that
were set on fire, but the fire was happily got out again
before it went far enough to burn down the houses; and
one citizen's servant, I think it was in Thames Street,

carn'ed so much gunpowder into his master's house, for

clearing it of the infection, and managed it so foolishly,
that he blew up part of the roof of the house. But the
time was not fully come that the city was to be purged
by fire, nor was it far oil; for within nine months more
I saw it all lying in ashes; .when, as some of our quacking

./
philosophers pretend, the seeds of the plague were en-
tirely destroyed, and not before; a notion too ridiculous
to speak of here, since, had the seeds of the plague re-
mained in the houses, not to be destroyed but by fire,
how has it been that they have not since broken out,
seeing all those buildings in the suburbs and liberties, all
in the great parishes of Stepney, Whitechapel, Aldgate,
Bishopsgate, Shoreditch, Cripplegate, and St. Giles,
where the fire never came, and where the plague raged
with the greatest violence, remain still in the same condi-
tion they were in before?

But to leave these things just as I found them, it was
certain that those people who were more than ordinarily
cautious of their health, did take particular directions for
what they called seasoning of their houses, and abun-
dance of costly things were consumed on that account,
which I cannot but say not only seasoned those houses,
as they desired, but filled the air with very grateful and
wholesome smells, which others had the share of the
benefit of as well as those who were at the expenses of
them.

And yet after all, though the poor came to town very
precipitantly, as I have said, yet I must say the rich
made no such haste. The men of business, indeed, came
up, but many of them did not bring their families to
town till the spring came on, and that they saw reason to
depend upon it that the plague would not return.

The Court, indeed, came up soon after Christmas, but
the nobility and gentry, except such as depended upon
and had employment under the administration, did not
come so soon.

I should have taken notice here, that notwithstanding
the violence of the plague in London and in other places,
yet it was very observable that it was never on board the
fleet, and yet for some time. there was a strange press in
the river, and even in the streets, for seamen to man. the ' I
fleet. But it was in the beginning of the year, when the -

plague was scarce begun, and not at all come down'to '
that part of the city where they usually press for seamen; ,
and though a war with the Dutch was not at all grateful
to the people at that time, and the seamen went with a
kind of reluctancy into the service, and many complained
of being dragged into it by force, yet it proved in the
event a happy violence to several of them, who had prob-
ably perished in the general calamity, and who, after the
summer service was over, though they had cause to
lament the desolation of their families, who--when they
came back, were many of them in their graves--yet they
had room to be thankful that they were carried out of
the reach of it, though so much against their wills. We
indeed had a hot war with the Dutch that year, and one
very great engagement at sea, in which the Dutch were
worsted, but we lost a great many men and some ships.
But, as I observed, the plague was not in the fleet, and
when they came to lay up the ships in the river the
violent part of it began to abate.

I would be glad if I could close the account of this
melancholy year with some particular examples his-
torically; I mean of the thankfulness to God, our pre-
server, for our being delivered from this dreadful calam-
ity. Certainly the circumstance of the deliverance, as well
as the terrible enemy we were delivered from, called
upon the whole nation for it. The circumstances of the
deliverance were indeed very remarkable, as I have 1n >>
part mentioned already, and particularly the dreadful
condition which we were all in, when we were, to the -
surprise of the whole town, made joyful with the hope of
a stop of the infection.

Nothing but the immediate finger of God, nothing but

omnipotent power, could have done it. The contagibu - I
despised all medicine; death raged in every comer; and
had it gone on as it did then, a few weeks more would
have cleared the town of all, and everything that had a
soul. Men everywhere began to despair; every heart
failed them for fear; people were made desperate through
the anguish of their souls, and the terrors of death sat in
the very faces and countenances of the people.

In that very moment, when we might very well say,
"Vain was the help of man,"--I say, in that very moment
it pleased God, with a most agreeable surprise, to cause
the fury of it to abate, even of itself; and the malignity
declining, as I have said, though infinite numbers were
sick, yet fewer died, and the very first week's bill de-
creased 1843; a vast number indeedl

It is impossible to express the change that appeared in
the very countenances of the people that Thursday mom-
ing when the weekly bill came out. It might have been
perceived in their countenances that a secret surprise and
smile of joy sat on everybody's face. They shook one an-
other by the hands in the streets, who would hardly go on
the same side of the way with one another before. Where
the streets were not too broad, they would open their
windows and call from one house to another, and ask
how they did, and if they had heard the good news that
the plague was abated. Some would return, when they
said good news, and ask, "What good news?" and when
they answered that the plague was abated and the bills
decreased almost 2000, they would cry out, "God be
praised," and would weep aloud for joy, telling them they
had heard nothing of it; and such was the joy of the
people that it was, as it were, life to them from the grave.
I could almost set down as many extravagant things done
in the excess of their joy as of their grief; but that would
be to lessen the value of it.

I must confess myself to have been very much dejected
just before this happened; for the prodigious number
that were taken sick the week or two before, besides those
that died, was such, and the lamentations were so great
everywhere, that a man must have seemed to have acted
even against his reason if he had so much as expected to
escape; and as there was hardly a house but mine in all
my neighbourhood but what was infected, so bad it gone
on it would not have been long that there would have
been any more neighbours to be infected. Indeed it is
hardly credible what dreadful havoc the last three weeks
had made, for if I might believe the person whose calcu-
lations I always found very well grounded, there were not
less than 30,000 people dead and near 100,000 fallen sick
in the three weeks I speak of; for the number that
sickened was surprising, indeed it was astonishing, and
those whose courage upheld them all the time before,
sank under it now.

In the middle of their distress, when the condition of
the city of London was so truly calamitous, just then it
pleased God, as it were, by His immediate hand to dis-
arm this enemy; the poison was taken out of the sting. It
was wonderful; even the physicians themselves were sur-
prised at it. Wherever they visited they found their
patients better; either they had sweated kindly, or the
tumours were broke, or the carbuncles went down, and
the inflammations round them changed colour, or the
fever was gone, or the violent headache was assuaged, or
some good symptom was in the case; so that in a few days
everybody was recovering, whole families that were in-
fected and down, that had ministers praying with them,
and expected death every hour, were revived and healed,
and none died at all out of them.

Nor was this by any new medicine found out, or new
method of cure discovered, or by any experience in the
operation which the physicians or surgeons attained to;
but it was evidently from the secret invisible hand of
Him that had at first sent this disease as a judgment
upon us; and let the atheistic part of mankind call my
saying what they please, it is no enthusiasm; it was
acknowledged at that time by all mankind. The disease
was enervated and its malignity spent; and let it proceed
from whencesoever it will, let the philosophers search for
reasons in nature to account for it by, and labour as much
as they will to lessen the debt they owe to their Maker,
those physicians who had the least share of religion in '
them were obliged to acknowledge that it was all super-
natural, that it was extraordinary, and that no account
could be given of it.

If I should say that this is a visible summons to us all to
thankfulness, especially we that were under the terror of
its increase, perhaps it may be thought by some, after
the sense of the thing was over, an officious canting of
religious things, preaching a sermon instead of writing a
history, making myself a teacher instead of giving my
observations of things; and this restrains me very much
from going on here, as I might otherwise do. But if ten
lepers were healed, and but one returned to give thanks,
I desire to be as that one, and to be thankful for myself.

Nor will I deny but there were abundance of people
who, to all appearance, were very thankful at that time;
for their mouths were stopped, even the mouths of those
whose hearts were not extraordinary long affected with
it. But the impression was so strong at that time that it
could not be resisted, no, not by the worst of the people.

It was a common thing to meet people in the street
that were strangers, and that we knew nothing at all of,
expressing their surprise. Going one day through Aldgate,
and a pretty many people being passing and repassing,
there comes a man out of the end of the Minories, and
looking a little up the street and down, he throws hishands abroad, "Lord, what an alteration is here! Why,
last week I came along here, and hardly anybody was to
be seen." Another man, I heard him, adds to his words,
" 'T is all wonderful; 't is all a dream." "Blessed be God," '
says a third man, "and let us give thanks to Him, for
't is all His own doing, human help and human skill
was at an end." These were all strangers to one another.
But such salutations as these were frequent in the street
every day; and in spite of a loose behaviour, the very
common people went along the streets giving God thanks
for their deliverance.

It was now, as I said before, the people had cast 03 all
apprehensions, and that too fast; indeed we were no more
afraid now to pass by a man with a white cap upon his
head, or with a cloth wrapt round his neck, or with his
leg limping, occasioned by the sores in his groin, all which
were frightful to the last degree but the week before.
But now the street was full of them, and these poor re-
covering creatures, give them their due, appeared very
sensible of their unexpected deliverance; and I should
wrong them very much if I should not acknowledge that
I believe many of them were really thankful. But I must
own, that for the generality of the people, it might too
justly be said of them as was said of the children of
Israel, after their being delivered from the host of Phar-
aoh, when they passed the Red Sea, and looked back,
and saw the Egyptians overwhelmed in the water, viz,
that they sang His praise, but they soon forgot His works.

I can go no farther here. I should be counted censori-
ous, and perhaps unjust, if I should enter into the un-
pleasing work of reflecting, whatever cause there was
for it, upon the unthankfulness and return of all manner
of wickedness among us, which I was so much an eye-
witness of myself. I shall conclude the account of this
calamitous year therefore with a coarse but sincere stanzaoi': my own, which I pkoed at the <<PS1 oiniyrordin
memorafidums the same year they were 'written ----'*.'~ .1

A dreadful plagooinLoodonwas '..
In the year sixty-five,
Which swept an hundred thode sauls

Away; yet I alive! '
H. T.