UNIVERSITY-1
OF FLORIDA
ILLBRARY

:;-THE(HFTOF

DEMONSTRATION SCHOOL

WW w

THIS VOLUME HAS BEEN

_ HICROFILHED BY THE

' UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA '
LIBRARIES , -Read with a clear, good light fiall-
ing from above over your shoulder.

Hold your book about fom-teen in-
ches from your eyes.

'Always read with your head up.
Keep your books clean; a soiled
page is hard to read.

Avoid books printed indistinctly,
. in small type, or ,on glossy paper.

Rest your eyes frequently.

Ifyour eyes ache, or if youhaveany

difficulty in seeing things die-
tinctly, have your eyes examined.ROBINSON CRUSOE... I'm
BY

DANIEL DEF OE

EDITED BY

LORA B. PECK

Puma! Supmwmon, Iunzrmmm
Saloon DISTRICI', Baum-on. '1'an

ILLUSTRATED BY

FRANK GODWJN-fl

-
, v
.y. n

-----
v

,)
nnnnnnn

ggggggg
......

:
x
x
nnnnnnn
n n

t"
,,,,,,

,
n,'

THE JOHN C. WINSTON COMPANY

$PSdegPSEfucxsco PHILADELPHIA'i>> 3 Tommo "5%$23.5

D 3/4 rel/o
(9:52;

 
 

 

The Winston Clear-Type Popular Classics

PINOCGEIO ....................................... c. Candi
Enmn 3! 81mm! 0. Fuuum

ROBIN HOOD .....................................
EDITED 3r Clonal Cocxnukx Huwzx

ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND. . .Lem'a Carroll

TREASURE ISLAND ................. Rob"! Louie Slewnaan
Elm-n 3! Guam eru BLAKILT
I HEIDI ......................................... Johanna 8mm:

EDITED 31 Autumn ZAcanm
TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE....Cleu and Mary Lamb

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES .........................
- Emma BY Om" Lawn

THE ARABIAN NIGHTS ..........................
EDITED 31' Oman Lawn

KIDNAPPBD .................... Rabat! Lom'a Suntan>>
Emnn BY Mxmu AUPMANN

BIBLE STORIES EVERY ONE SHOULD KNOW
Jena 141mm lebul, D.D.

   

mus nnmug' ........................ Mary Maw Dodge
:. '3 . mm a! Run Hum-r
Ronmsbm causal; .......................... Dam'd mm

3 '. '. EDH'ED 3! Lou B. PM:

THE. 11' WITHOUT A COUNTRY. . . Edward Bun" Huh
3% Other Patriotic Stories

. Elm-n :7 Jam: M. Four:

0
o
0

Copyright, 1925, by
1133' Joan C. WINSTON Comm!

.
..o' Cowman m Gnu-r Bnmm
Tau Ban-mu Dommoxu AND Possum)":

- Comm", 1926. m m Pumpm Isuzu):

All rights reserved

PRINTED IN THE U. 8. A.CONTENTS

Cami: Pm:
I. THE FIRST VOYAGE .......................... 1

II. ADVENTURES IN AFRICA ...................... 18
III. LIFE AND TRAVEL IN SOUTH AMERICA ......... 43
IIL SALVAGE FROM THE VVRECK ......... . .......... 59
V. BUILDING MY HOME ......................... 74
VI.AmHER THE EARTHQUAKE ..................... 103
VII. MAKING A COUNTRY HOME ................... 120
VIII. TEN YEARS OF WORK ....................... 134
IX. FOOD AND CLOTHING ......................... 179
)C THE SAVAGEs ................................ 190
XI. FRIDAY ...................................... 212
XII TEE SAVAGEs RETURN ....................... 245
XIII. DELIVERANCE ................................ 264

32550~

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

 

I MADE FRIDAY A JACKET OF GOAT's SKIN....Frontispiece

PACE

I DID MY UTMOST To KEEP THE CHESTS IN THEIR

PLACE '. ................................................. 64
I OUT WITH MY KNIFE UPON A LARGE POST ......... 83
POLL Now BEGAN To BE MIGHTY WELL ACQUAINTED
WITH ME ............................................... 139
I MADE SOME EARTHEN VESSELS, VERY BROAD BUT
NOT DEEP ............................................. 155
I FIXED MY UMBRELLA IN A STEP AT THE STERN'... 168
So, TAKING NOTHING OUT OF MY BOAT BUT MY GUN
AND MY UMBRELLA, I BEGAN MY WALK ............ 175
I MADE IT MY BUSINESS To TEACH HIM EVERY-
THING THAT WAS PROPER AND USEFUL .............. 223
I JUMPED UP AND WENT OUT THROUGH MY LITTLE
GROVE ...................... . ............................ 264

viiINTRODUCTION

 

OR all who like adventure, this book will prove
an open gateway. Through it they may pass to
strange adventures on the high seas and on tropic

shores. .With the young runaway hero they may es-
cape from hundrum, everyday existence into a thrill-
'ing life of excitement and danger, of slavery and ship-
wreck. With him they may come to the desert island
where, alone for. twenty-four years, he manages by
hard work and ingenuity to supply food, clothing,
and shelter for himself. They may share his terror
at the coming of the cannibals, and his joy when at
last he has a companion. They may be present dur-
ing the 'final swift-moving days, packed with peril and
excitement, that end in his escape.

Let no one think that this is drawn wholly from
the author's imagination. It is founded upon the ex-
periences of Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch lad who was
on a ship wrecked off the coast of Chile. The young
man was tossed by the sea upon the island of Juan
Fernandez which was uninhabited at that time. He
saved the supplies from the ship and lived for some
years alone on the island. How much DeFoe added
to Selkirk's adventures cannot now be told, but there
is no doubt that he interwove facts and fancies until

I!
he produced a story unparalleled for its absorbing in-'
terest.

Many a book of adventure has been written since
this one. Many a story has been centered around ship-
wreck and life on a desert island. It is interesting to
note, however, that Robinson Crusoe is the begin-
ning of all fictional adventure. Thousands of authors
have followed where DeFoe led, but his book still
holds the place it won two hundred years ago. It has
been translated into many languages and dialects, it
has charmed the story-loving Arabs, it is familiar to
the children in our island possessions, and it is avail-
able even in Esperanto. '

One element of value in this book has often been
overlooked. With the greatly increased emphasis on
the social studies has come a problem of making our
pupils understand the tremendous significance in their
daily lives of the interdependence of occupations, social
groups, geographical regions, and, perhaps most im-
portant of a11,.of the nations of the earth. Robinson
Crusoe shows in striking contrast a purely independ-
ent individual life, wresting a rudimentary and la-
borious existence from a somewhat kindly natural
environment. The alert teacher of the social studies
Will frequently use this background as an illuminating
contrast with the conditions and problems she wishes
to present.

' A word as to the text may not be out of place.
Some long and involved sentences have been separated
into two or more statements to suit modern readers.
However, care has been taken to preserve the exact
thought in every case. A few paragraphs have been
eliminated, but every incident in the life of Robinson
Crusoe from the time he first left home until the time
he was again settled in England is here set forth in
the words and the style used by Daniel DeFoe in 1719.
Only such notes have been given as seemed necessary,
but for the most part the unusual words and expressions
can be understood from their use in the text. In the
author's version there are no chapters, but in this
edition it has seemed desirable to divide the text into
chapters, though the division does not affect the story
itself.

Here then is The Life and Adventures of Robin-
son Crusoe, a book that started a new era in stories.
May all the boys and girls who read it now enjoy the
tale as did the old and young who read it two hune

dred years agO- -----Lora B. Peck.

PRIMARY Svpsnvmox. 1141)"ansz
SCKOOL Dxnmcr, Houston, TamTHE LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON 'CRUSOE

 

CHAPTER I

THE FIRST VOYAGE

WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of

a good family, though not of that country. My

father was a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York. There
he married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country. For
them I was called Robinson. Our English neighbors
corrupted my father's name into Crusoe, and. there-
, fore my playmates called me Robinson Crusoe.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. My father, who was very, an-
cient, had given me a competent share of learning, as
far as house education and a. country free school gen-
erally goes, and designed me for the law, but I would
be satisfied with nothing but going to sea. My in-
clination to this led me so strongly against the will,

1
nay, the commands of my father, and against all the
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that .thereseemedto be something fatal in
that inclination leading directly to the life of misery
which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon this subject. He asked me
what reasons, more than a mere wandering inclination,
I had for leaving my father's house and my native
country, where I might be well introduced, and had a
prospect of raising my fortune by applicationand in-
dustry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it
was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of
aspiring superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
out of the common road. These things were all either
too far above me, or too far below me; mine was the
middle state. He had found by long experience that
this was the best state in the world, the most suited to
human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and
hardships, and not embarrassed with the pride, lux-
ury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of man-
kind. He told me that I might judge of the happiness
of this state by this one thing, namely, that this was
the state of life which all other people envied; thatV .
' ROBINSON CRUSOE 3

kings have frequently lamented the miserable conse-
quences of being born to great things, and have wished'
that they had been placed in the middle of the two
extremes, between the mean and the great; that the
Wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just stand-
ard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither
poverty nor riches.

He bade me observe it, and I should always find
that the calamities of life were shared among the upper
and lower part of mankind; but that the middle station
had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so
many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man~
kind. '

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most

' affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not
to precipitate myself into miseries which nature and
the station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
against. He reminded me that I was under no necessity
of seeking my bread; that he would do well for me, and
endeavor to enter me fairly into the station of life which
he had just been recommending to me.

He pointed out to me that if I was not very easy
and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate or
fault that must hinder it, and that he should have
nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt; in a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me if I would stay and settle at
home as he directed, so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encourage-
'ment to go away.

My father went on to say that he would not cease
to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me that
if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless me,
and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon hav-
ing neglected his counsel when there might be none to
assist in my recovery.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as, in-
deed, who could be otherwise,'and I resolved not to
think of going abroad any more, but to' settle at home
according to my father's desire. But, alas! a few days

_ wore it all off, and, in short, to prevent any of my
father's further importunities, a few weeks afterwards
I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I
did not act so hastily as my first heat of resolution
prompted, but I took my mother, at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told
her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world that I should never settle to anything with
resolution enough to go through with it, and my father
had better give me his consent than force me to go with-
out it. I told her that I was now eighteen years old,
which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or
clerk to an attorney. Moreover, I was sure that, if I
did, I should never serve out my time, and I should
certainly run away from my master before my time
was out, and go to sea. I assured her that if she would
speak to my father to let me go but one voyage abroad,
v

if I came home again and did not like it, I would go
no more, and I would promise by a double diligence to,
recover that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She
told me that she knew it would be to no purpose to
speak to my father upon any such subject. He knew
too well what was my interest to give his consent to
anything so much for my hurt. She wondered how I
could think of any such thing after such a discourse as
I had had from my father, and such kind and tender
expressions as she knew my father had used to me.
She said that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there
i was no help for me, but I might depend I should never
have their consent to it. For her part she would not
3,, have so much hand in my destruction, and I should
inever have it to say that my mother was Willing when
3. my father was not.

3 Though my mother refused to ask my father's per-
1 mission, yet, as I heard afterwards, she reported all
the discourse to him. My father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh, "That
boy might be happy if he would stay at home, but if
*he goes abroad, he will be the'most miserable wretch
that was ever born; I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the meantime I continued obsti-
nately deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and
frequently expostulated with my father and mother

about their being so positively determined against
2
what they knew my inclinations prompted me to. But
one day when I was at Hull, where I went casually, and
without any purpose of running away that time, one
of myicompanions who was about to sail to London
in his father's ship prompted me to go with them,
with the common allurement of seafaring men, that
it should cost me nothing for my passage. I consulted
neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as
sent them word of it. Leaving them to hear of it as
they might, without asking God's blessing, or my
father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour--God knows--on the
first of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound
for London. Never any young adventurer's misfor-
tunes, I believe, began sooner, or continued longer than
mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out of the Hum-
ber, but the wind began to blow, and the waves to.rise
in a most frightful manner. As I had.never been at
sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body and
terrified in mind. I began now seriously to reflect
upon what I had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my
father's house, and abandoning my duty. _ All the
good counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my
mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my mind,
and my conscience, which was not yet come to the
pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached
me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my
dutv to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea,
' which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since; no, nor like what I saw a few days after; but it
was enough to affect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter.
l I expected that every wave would have swallowed us
up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought,
in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise
! more. In this agony of mind I made many vows and
: resolutions, that if it would please God here to spare
{my life this one voyage, if ever I got my foot upon
1' dry land again I would go directly home to my father,
:1 and never set it into a ship again while I lived; that I
would take his advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the
goodness of his observations about the middle station
50f life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his
" days, and never'had been exposed to tempests at sea
or troubles on shore. I resolved that I would, like a
true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
, while the storm continued, and indeed some time after;
but the next day the wind was abated and the sea
calmer, and I began to be a little used to it. However,
'I was very grave for all that day, being also a little
seasick still, but toward night the weather cleared up,
the wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening
followed. The sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning. There was little or no wind,
and a smooth sea with the sun shining upon it, and
the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that

ever I saw. _ '

I had sleptwell in the night, and was now no more
seasick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon
the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before,
and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little time
after. And now, lest my good resolutions should con-
tinue, my companion, who had indeed enticed me away,
comes to me.

"Well, Bob," says he (clapping me upon the shoul-
der), "how do you do after it? I warrant you were
frighted,' wan't you, last night, when it blew but a cap-
ful of wind?"

"A capful do you call it?" said I. "It was a terrible
storm."

"A terrible storm, you silly creature?" replied he,
half laughing. "Do you call that a storm? Why, it
was nothing at all! Give us but a good ship and sea-
room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind
as that; but you're but a fresh water sailor, Bob.
come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all
that. ' Do you see what charming weather, it is now?"

To make short this sad part of my story, we went
the old way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I
was made drunk with it, and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my ge-
flections upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions
for my future. In a word, as the sea was returned to
its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the
abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swal-
lowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current
of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the
vows and promises that I made in my distress. I
found indeed some intervals of reflection, and the
serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavor to return
again sometimes; but I shook them off, and roused
myself from them as it were from a distemper, and ap-
plying myself to drink and company, soon mastered
the return of those fits, for so I called them; Thus in
five or six days I had got as complete a victory over
conscience as any young fellow that'resolved not to be
troubled with it could desire. But I was to have an-
other trial for it still, and Providence, as in such cases.
generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely without
excuse. For if I would not take this for a deliverance,
the next was to be such a one that the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess both the
danger and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yar-
mouth Roads. The wind having been contrary and
the weather calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor,
and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, namely,

at southwest,- for seven or eight days, during which
' tflne a great many ships from Newcastle came into the
same Roads, as the common harbor where the ships
might wait for a Wind from the river.

4 We should not have ridden here so long, however,
but should have gone up the river on the tide, but that
the wind blew too fresh, and after we hod lain four
or five days blew very hard. However, the Roads
being reckoned as good as a harbor, the anchorage
good and our ground-tackJe very strong, our men were
unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of
danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. The eighth day in the morning
the wind increased, and we had all hands at work to
strike our topmasts, and make everything, snug and
close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rode forecastle in, shipped several. seas, and we thought
once or twice our anchorhad come home; upon which
our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered
out to the end. , '

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of
the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant
in the business of preserving the ship, yet as'he went
in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him say
softly to himself several times, "Lord, be merciful to us;
we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone," and the
like. During these first hurries, I was stupid, lying
still in my 'cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot
describe my temper. I could ill reassume the first
penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon,
and hardened myself against. I thought the bitter-
ness of death had been past, and that this would be
nothing like the first. But when the master himself
came by me, as I said just now, and said we should be
all lost, I was dreadfully frightened. I got up out of
my cabin and looked out, but such a dismal sight I
never saw. ' The sea went mountains high, and broke
upon. us every three or four minutes. When I could
look about, I could see nothing but distress round us.
Two ships that rode near us, we found, had cut their
masts by the board, being deep laden, and our men
cried out that a ship which rode about a mile ahead
of us was foundered. Two more ships, being driven
from their anchors, were run out of the Roads to sea,
and that with not a mast standing. The light ships
fared the best, because they did not labor so much in
the sea; but two or three of them drove, and came close
by us, running away with only their spritsail out .be<<
fore the wind.

Toward evening the mate and the boatswain begged
the master of our ship to let them cut away the fore-
mast, which he was very unwilling to do; but the boat-
swain protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship
would founder, he consented. When they had cut
aWay the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose and
shook the ship so much that they were obliged to cut
her away, also, and make a clear deck.
Anyone may judge what a condition I was in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been
in such a fright before at but a little. But if I can ex-
press at this distance the thoughts I had about me at
that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind on
account of my former convictions, and because I had
turned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself. These, added
to the terror of the storm, put me into such a condition
that I can by no words describe it.

We had a good ship, but she was deep laden and -
wallowed in the sea, so that the seamen every now and
thencried out that she would founder. It was my ad-

vantage in one respect that I did not know what they
meant by founder, till I inquired. However, the storm
was so violent that I saw what is not often seen, the
' master, the boatswain, and some others more sensible
than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every
moment that the ship would go to the bottom. In
the middle of the night, on top of all the rest of our
distresses, one of the men that had been down on
purpose to see, cried out that we had sprung a leak;
another said there were four feet of water in the hold.
Then all hands were called to the pump. At that very
word my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I
fell backwards from the side of my bed where I sat,
into the cabin.

However, the men roused me, and told me that I,
who was able to do nothing before. was as well able to
't . .
pump as another. At this I stirred up and went to the

pump and worked very heartily. While this was doing,
the master saw some light colliers, who, not able to
ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away
to sea. They would not come near us and the master
ordered a gun to be fired as a signal of distress.

I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so sur-
prised that I thought the ship had broken, or some
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so sur-
prised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with
his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead. It ,
was a great while before I came to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder.
Though the storm began to abate a little, yet it was
not possible she could swim till we might run into a
port, so the master continued firing guns for help,
and a light ship who had ridden it out just ahead of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard that the boat came near us, but it was im-
possible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie
near the ship's side. At last, the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men cast them a rope over the stern with the buoy to
it, and then veered it out a great length, which they,
after great labor and hazard, took hold of, and we
hauled them close under our stern and got all into
their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us after
we were in the boat to think of reaching to their own
ship, so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her
in toward shore as much as we could, and our master
promised them that if the boat was staved upon shore
he would make it good to their master. So, partly row-
ing and partly driving, our boat went away to the north-
ward, sloping toward the shore almost as far as Win- '
terton-Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour -
out of our ship before we saw her sink, and then I under-
stood for the first time what was meant by a ship found-
ering in the sea. I must acknowledge that I had hardly
eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was
sinking; for from that moment they rather put me into
the boat than that I might be said to go in, my heart
was, as it were, dead within me, partly with fright,
partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what
was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet laborc
ing at the oars to bring the boat near the shore, we
could see (when our boat mounting the waves we
were able to see the shore) a great many people run-
ning along the shore to assist us when we should come
near. We made but slow way toward the shore, nor
were we able to reach it, till being past the lighthouse
at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward
toward Cromer, and so the land broke off . a little the
violence of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not
without much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as
unfortunate men, we were used with great humanity,
as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned
us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient
to carry us either to London or back to Hull, as we
thought fit.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist, and though I had several
times loud calls from my reason and my more composed
judgment to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I
know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a
secret overruling decree that hurries us on to be the
instruments of our own destruction, even though it
be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes
open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed misery
attending, and which it was impossible for me to es-
cape, cbuld have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts,
and against two such visible instructions as I had met
with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days,
for we were separated in the town to several quarters--
I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was
altered. He looked very melancholy, and, shaking his
head, asked me how I did. He told his father who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go farther abroad. His father turned to
me with a very grave and concerned tone.

"Young man," said he, "you ought never to go
to sea any more; you ought to take this for a plain
and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring
man." -

"Why, sir," said I, "will you go to sea no more?"

"That is another case," said he. "It is my calling,
and therefore my duty; but as you made this voyage
for a trial, you see What a taste Heaven has given you
of what you are to expect if you persist; perhaps this is
all befallen us on your account, like Jonah,* in the
ship of Tarshish. Pray," continued he, "what are you?
and on what account did you go to sea?"

I told him some of my story, at the end of which
he burst out with a strange kind of passion. "What
had I done," says he, "that such an unhappy' wretch
should come into my ship? I would not set my foot in
the same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds."
However, he afterwards talked very gravely to me, and
exhorted me to go back to my father and not tempt
Providence to my ruin. He told me I might see a visible
hand of Heaven against me. '

"And, young man," said. he, "depend upon it if
you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet

-* See Bible, Jonah, ch. 1, vs. 1--15.
with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till
. your father's words are fulfilled upon you.".

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more. Which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
traveled to London by land, and there, as well as on
the road, had many struggles with myself, what course
of life I should take, and whether I should go home, or
'go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that offered to my thoughts, and it immediately oc-
curred to me how I should be laughed at among the
neighbors, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even everybody else. I
have since often observed how incongruous and ir-
rational the common temper of mankind is, especially

. of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them
in such cases, namely, that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of
the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed
fools, but are ashamed of the returning, which only
can make them esteemed Wise men.
ADVENTURES IN AFRICA

N this state of life, however, I remained some time,

uncertain what measures to take and what course

. of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued
to going home, and as I stayed a while, the remembrance
of the distress I had been in wore off, till at last I quite
laid aside the thoughts of it.

That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the
wild notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed
those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf
to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even the
command 'of my father--I say, the same influence, .
whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all
enterprises to my view, and I went on board a vessel
bound to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly
call it, a voyage to Guinea. '

It was my great misfortune that in all these ad-
ventures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby,
though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I should have
learned the duty and office of a foremast man, and in
time might have qualified myself for a mate or a lieu-
tenant, if not for a master. But, as it was always my

fate to choose for the worse, so I did here; for having
- 18
money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my back,
I would always go on board in the habit of a gentle-
man, and so I neither had any business in the ship,
nor learned to do any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen to
such loose and unguided young fellows as I then was.
I became acquainted with the master of a ship who
' had been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go again.
He took a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all
disagreeable at that time, and hearing me say that I
had a mind to see the world, he told me that if I would
go the voyage with him I should be at no expense; I
should be his messmate and his companion, and if I
could carry anything with me, I should have all the ad-
vantage of it that the trade would admit, and perhaps
I might meet with some encouragement.

. I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict

friendship with this captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
undertook a small adventure in which, by the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the captain, I was very
successful. I Carried about 40l.* in such toys and trifles
as the captain directed me to buy. This 40l. I had
mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I be-

* 40L = 40 pounds English money. One pound = twenty shillings.
At the standard rate of exchange a pound = $4.86.
lieve, got my father, or at least my mother, to con-
tribute so much as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain,
under whom also I got a complete knowledge of the
mathematics and the rules of navigation, learned how
to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand some things that
were needful to be understood by a sailor. As he took
delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn, and, in
a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
chant, for I brought home five pounds, nine ounces of
gold dust for my adventure. This yielded me in
London at my return almost 3001., and my success
filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have
since so completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too.
I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
fever by the excessive heat of the climate. Our principal
trading was upon the coast, from the latitude of fifteen
degrees north even to the line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader. To my great
misfortune, my friend died soon after his arrival, but
I resolved to go the same voyage again. I embarked
in the same vessel with one who was the mate in the
former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man
made, for though I did not carry quite mm. of my new
gained wealth, so that I had 200l. left, which I lodged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet
I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage.

Our ship, making her course toward the Canary
Islands, or rather between those islands and the Afri-
can shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by
a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with
all the sail she could make. We crowded, also, as much
canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts carry,
to have got clear, but finding that the pirate had
gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us
. in a few hours, we prepared to fight. Our ship had

twelve guns, and the rogue's eighteen. About three
in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to,
_ by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart
our stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns
to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside upon
him, which made him sheer off again, after returning
our fire and pouring in also his small shot from about
200 men which he had on board. However, we had not
a man touched, all our men keeping close. He pre-
pared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves,
but laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and
rigging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes,
powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck
of them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy

part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three
3
of our men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged
to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a
port belonging to the Moors. _

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended, nor was I carried up the country
to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were,
but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed, and now I looked
back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable and have none to relieve me.

As my new patron or master had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it
would at some time or other be his fate to be taken by
a Spanish or Portuguese man-of-war, and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away, for when he went to sea he left -me
on shore to look after his little garden, and do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house, and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me
to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

' Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way
that had the least probability in it, for I had nobody
to communicate it to that would embark with me;
. no fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotch-
man there but myself. So, for two years, though I
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never
had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in
practice.

After about two years an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thought of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head. My
patron lay at home longer than usual without fitting
out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money.
He used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
oftener if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road fishing. He always
took me and a young Maresco* with him to row the
boat, and we made him very merry. I proved very
dexterous in catching fish, so that sometimes he
would send me with a Moor,T one of his kinsmen,
and the youth, the Maresco as they called him, to catch
a dish of fish for him.

It happened, one time, that as we went fishing in a
stark, calm morning, a fog rose so thick that, though we
were not half a league from the shore, we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we
labored all day, and all the next night, and when the
morning came we found we had pulled off to sea in-
stead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were'at

*Maresco = One born on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea;
more especially applied to one born' on the southern shore.

TMoor = A native of Morocco. In the Middle Ages the term was
appliedbo the Mohammedans who crossed over to Spain.
least two leagues from the shore. However, we got well
in again, though with a great deal of labor and some
danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning, but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself in the future; He resolved that
he would not go fishing any more Without a compass
and some provisions; so he ordered the carpenter of
his ship, who also was an English slave, to build a
little stateroom or cabin in the middle of the long
boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand behind
it to steer and hale home the mainsheet, and room be-
fore for a hand or two to stand and work the sails.
She sailed with What we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail;
and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which
lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to
lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some
small lockers to put in his bread, rice, and coffee.

We frequently went out with this boat fishing, and
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never
went without me. It happened one time that he had
decided to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
for fish, with two or three Moors. He therefore sent
on board the boat over night a larger store of provisions
than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three
' fusees* with powder and shot, which were on board
his ship, since he designed some sport of fowling as
well as fishing.

* A fusee was a flintlock musket. The word is now obsolete.
I got all things ready as he directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat washed clean, her
flag and pennants out, and everything to accommodate
his guests. By and by my patron came on board alone,
and told me that his guests had put off going, upon
some business that fell out, and ordered me with the
man and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and
catch them some fish, because his friends were to sup
at his house. He commanded that as soon as I got
some fish I should bring it home to his house. All
this I prepared to do.

This amoment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found that I was
about to have a little ship at my command. As soon as
my master was gone, I prepared'to furnish myself, not
for afishing business, but for a voyage; though I knew
not, neither did I so much as consider, whither I should
steer. Anywhere to get out of that place was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretense to
speak to this Moor, to g'deg l't mOre food on board I told
him that we must 'not presume to eat of our patron' s
bread. He said that that was tme and brOught a large
basket of rusks or biscuits of their kind, and three Jars
with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident by
the make were taken out of some English prize, and I
conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on
shore, as if they had been there before for our master.
I conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat,
which weighed above half a hundredweight, with a
parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a
' hammer, all of which were of great use to us after-
wards; especially the wax to make candles. Another
trick I tried upon him which he innocently came into
also. His name was Ismael, but he was called Muly,
or Moley, so I called to him, "Moley, our patron's
guns are on board the boat; can you not get a little
powder and shot? It may be that we may kill some
alcamies [a fowl like our curlews] for ourselves, for I
know that he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."

"Yes," says he, "I'll bring some."

Accordingly he brought a great leather pouch
which held about a pound and a half of powder, or
rather more, and another with shot, that had five or
six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the
boat. At the same time I had found some powder of
my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one
of the Iargefljgo'files m [5119* .case, which was almost
empty;;3pSSufin'g what was'i'nifiitkinto another. Thus
furnished withcreverythjng needffilfl'fiwe sailed out of
tlieitp'drt to fishee

The men in the castle, which is at"the entrance of
the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us.

We were not above a mile out of the port before we
hauled in our sail and set us down to fish The wind
blew from the N. N. E., which was contrary to my de-
sire, for had it blown southerly I had been sure to
have made the coast of Spain, and at least reach the
bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which
way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them
up, that he might not see them, I said to the Moor,
"This will not do; our master will not be thus served;
we must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed, and being in the head of the boat set the sails.
As I had the helm I ran the boat out nearly a league
farther, and then brought her to as if I would fish.
Then, giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
something behind him, I took him by surprise with
my arm under his legs, and tossed him clear overboard
into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like
a cork, and calling to me, begged to be taken in. He
told me he would go all over the world with me. He
swam so vigorously after the boat that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being but little wind.
Thereupon I stepped into the cabin, and securing one
of the fowling pieces, I pointed it at him, and told him
that I had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet
I would do him none.

"But," said I, "you swim well enough to reach the
shore, and the sea is calm. Make the best of your
way to shore, and I will do you no harm, but if you
come near the boat I'll shoot you through the head,
for I am resolved to have my liberty."
So he turned himself about and swam for the shore,
and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was gone I turned to the boy, Whom they
called Xury, and said to him, "me, if you will be
faithful to me I'll make you a great man; but if you
will not stroke your face to be true to me," [that is
swear by Mahomet and his father's beard] "I must
throw you into the sea, too." The boy smiled in my
face and spoke so innocently that I could not mis-
trust him. He swore to be faithful to me, and go all
over the world with me.

,While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone toward. the Straits mouth (as indeed anyone
that had been in his wits must have been supposed to
do). Who would have supposed that we would sail on
to the southward to the truly barbarian coast, where
whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround us with
their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage
' beasts, or more merciless savages of human kind?

' But as soon as it grew dusk 1n the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east
bending my course a little toward the east, that I
might keep m with the shore Having a fairly fresh
gale of wind and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail
that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in the
afternoon, when I first made the land, I could not have
been less than 150 miles south of Sallee. I was quite
beyond the dominions of the emperor of Morocco, or
indeed of any other king thereabouts, for we saw
no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor. The wind continued fair till I
had sailed 1n that manner five days. When it shifted
to the southward, I concluded that if any of our vessels
were in chase of me, they also would now give up, so
I ventured to make the coast. I came to an anchor in
the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or where;
neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or
what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people. The principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to
swim to shore as soon as it was dark, and explore the
countly; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard
such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howl-
ing of wild creatures of we knew not what kinds, that
the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged
me not to go on shore till day.

"Oh, very well," said I, "then I won't, but it may
be that we may see men by day, who will be as bad to
us as those lions."
"Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing; "make them run way."

Such English Xury spoke by conversing among
us slaves. However I was glad to see the boy so cheer-
ful, and I gave him a dram (out of our patron's ease
of bottles) to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice
was good, and I took it. We dropped our little anchor
and lay still all night. I say "lay still," for we slept
none, for in two or three hours we saw vast, great crea-
tures (we knew not what to call them) of many sorts,
come down to the seashore and run into the water,
wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of
cooling themselves. They made such hideous howlings
and yellings that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and .indeed so
was I; but we were both more frightened when we
heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming
toward our boat. We could not see him, but we might
hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and
furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might
have been so for aught I know. Poor Xury cried to
me to weigh the anchor and row away.

"N 0," said I, "Xury, we can slip our cable with a
buoy to it and go off to sea; they cannot follow us far."
I had no sooner said so but I perceived the creature
(whatever it was) within two oars' length which sur-
prised me. However, I immediately stepped to the cabin
door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon which
he turned about and swam toward the shore again.
It is impossible to describe the horrible noises and
hideous cries and howlings that were raised, as well
upon the edge of the shore, as higher within the country,
upon the noise or report of the gun; a thing I have some
reason to believe those creatures had never heard be-
fore. This convinced me that there was no going on
shore for us in the night upon that coast.

How to venture on shore when day came was an--
other question, too, for to have fallen into the hands
of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen
prey to lions and tigers; at least we were equally appre--
hensive of the danger of it. Be that as it would, we
were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for
water, for we had not a pint left in the boat. When or
where to get it was the point. Xury said that if I
would let him go on shore with one of the jars he would
see if there was any water, and bring some to me. I
asked him why he would go; why I should not go,
and he stay in the boat.

The boy answered with so much affection that I
loved him ever after. Said he, "If wild mans come, they
eat me, you go way."

"Well, Xury," said I, "we will both go, and if the
wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall eat
neither of us."

I gave Xury a piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a
dram out of our patron's case of bottles which I men--
tioned before. Then we hauled the boat in as near the
shore as we thought was proper, and waded to shore,
carrying nothing but our guns, and two jars for
water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river; but
the boy, seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it. By and by I saw him come running
toward me. I thought that he was pursued by some
savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I ran for-
ward toward him to help him, but when I came nearer
to him, I saw something hanging over his shoulders. It
was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, but
different in color, and with longer legs. We were very
glad of it, and it was very good meat. However, the
great joy that poor Xury came with was to tell me
that he had found good water, and had seen no wild men.

But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the tide
was out, which flowed but a little way up. We filled
our jars and feasted on the hare we had killed, and pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of
any human creature in that part of the country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the .
Cape Verde Islands, also, lay not far off from the
coast But as I had no instruments to take an obser-
vation to know what latitude we were in, and did not
exactly know, or at least remember, what latitude
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand off to sea toward them. Otherwise I i
might now easily have found some of these islands.
But my hope was that if I stood along this coast till
I came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was must be that country which lies between the
emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, and
is waste and uninhabited except by wild beasts.

Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the
Peak of .Teneriffe, which is the high top of the moun-
tain Teneriffe in the Canaries. I had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching it, but having tried
twice, I was forced in again by contrary Winds, the sea
also going too high for my little vessel, so I resolved
to pursue my first design and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water
after we had left this place. Once in particular, early
in the morning, we came to anchor under a little point
of land which was pretty high, and the tide beginning
to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose
eyes were more about him than it seems mine were,
called softly to me, and told me that we had best go
farther off the shore. "For," said he, "look, yonder
lies a dreadful monster on the side of that. hillock fast
asleep."

I looked where he pointed, and saw a great lion
quietly taking his rest.
Bidding Xury lie still in the boat, I took our biggest
gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it
with a good charge of. powder, and with two slugs, and
laid it down. Then I loaded another gun with two
bullets; and the third, for we had three pieces, I loaded
with five Smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could
with the first piece, to have shot the lion in the head,
but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose,
that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke
the bone. He started up growling at first, but finding
his leg broken fell down again, and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever
I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not hit
him on the head. However, I took up the second piece
immediately, and though he began to move off, fired
again, and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure
to see him drop, and make but little noise, lie struggling
for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me
let him go on shore.

"Well, go," said I.

So the boy jumped into the water, and taking a
little gun in one hand, swam to the shore with the other
hand, and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle
of the piece to his ear, and shot him in the head again,
which dispatched him quite.

Thiswas game-indeed to us, but it was not food.
I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he would have some of him, so
he came on board, and asked me to give him the
hatchet.

"For what, Xury?" said I.

"Me cut off his head," said he.

However, Xury could not cut off his head, but he
cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a
monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the
skin of him might one way or other be of some value
to us, and I resolved to take off his skin, if I could. So
Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury was
much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill
how to do it. Indeed, it took us both the whole day,
but at last we got the hide off him, and spread it on
' the top of our cabin, where the sun effectually dried
it in two days. Afterwards it served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say any-
where about Cape Verde, where I was in hopes to
meet with some European ship. If I did not, I knew
not what course I had to take but to seek for the Is-
lands, or perish there among the Negroes. I knew that
all the ships from Europe, which sailed either to the
coast of Guinea or to Brazil or to the East Indies,
made this Cape, or those Islands. In a word, I put
the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either
that I must meet with some ship or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhabited. In two or three places, as we sailed by, we
saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we could
also perceive that they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them; but Xury was my better counsellor, and said
to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled in nearer the
shore that I: might talk to them, and I found that they
ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed
that only one had a weapon, a long, slender stick, which
Xury said was a lance. He told me that the savages
could throw these lances a great way with good aim.
So I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs
as well as I could, and particularly made signs for
' something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they would bring me some meat. Upon this
I lowered the top of my sail and lay by, and two of
them ran up' into the country, and in less than half
an hour came back, bringing with them two pieces
of dry flesh and some grain, which is the produce of their
country. We neither knew what the one nor the other
was, but we were willing to accept it. How to come at
it was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing
on shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us.
However, they took a' safe way for us all, for they
brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we had brought it on board.
Then they came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had noth-
ing to make them amends, but an opportunity of- _
fered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully.
While we were lying by the shore, there came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took
it) with great fury, from the mountains toward the sea.
We found the people terribly frightened, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not
fly from them, but the rest did. However, the two
creatures did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the
Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and
swam about as if they had come for their diversion.
At last one of them began to come nearer our boat
than at first I expected, but I lay ready for him, for I
had loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and-
bade Xury load both the others. As soon as he came
fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in
the head. Immediately he sank down into the water,
but rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if
he was struggling for life, and so indeed he was. He
immediately made to the shore, but between the wound
which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the
water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor Negroes at the noise and the fire of my gun.
But when they saw that the creature was dead, and

sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to
4
come to the shore, they took heart and came to the
shore, and began to search for the creature. I found
him by his blood staining the water. By the help of
a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes
to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that
he was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine to
an admirable degree. The Negroes held up their hands
with admiration to think what it was that I had killed
him with.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam to shore, and ran up
directly to the mountains from whence they had come,
nor could I at that distance know what he was. I
quickly found that the Negroes were for eating the flesh
of this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favor from me. They offered me some of the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it to them,
but I made signs for the skin, which they gave me very
freely. They brought me, too, a great deal more of
their provision, which, though I did not understand,
yet I accepted. Then I made signs to them for some
water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning it
bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that
I wanted to have it filled. They called immediately
to some of their friends, and two women came and
brought a great vessel made of earth and burnt, as
I suppose, in the sun. This they sat down for me, as
before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and
filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and grain, such as it
was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the'sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me. The sea being very
calm, I kept a large offing to make this point. At
length, doubling the point at about two leagues from
the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to sea--
ward. Then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was Cape Verde, and those the islands,
called from thence Cape Verde Islands. However,
they were at a great distance, and I could not tell what
I had best do, for if I should be taken with a fresh of
wind I might reach neither one nor the other.

Not knowing what to do in this dilemma, I went
into the cabin and sat down to think. Xury had the
helm, and suddenly he cried out, "Master, master, a
ship with a sail!" I jumped out of the cabin, and im-
mediately saw the ship, and saw that it was a Portu-
guese ship, and, as I thought, was bOund to the coast
of Guinea for Negroes. But when I observed the
course she steered, I was soon convinced that they were -
bound some other way, and did not design to come any
nearer to the shore. Thereupon I stretched out to sea as
much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not
be able to come in their way, but they would be gone
by before I could make any signal to them. But after
I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair,
they, it seemed, saw me by the help of their perspective-
glasses.* They saw that it was some European boat,
which, as they supposed, must belong to some ship
that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's
flag on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal
of distress, and fired a gun, both of which they saw,
for they told me they saw the smoke, though they did
not hear the gun. Upon these signals they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me, and in' about three
hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Span-
ish, and in French, but I understood none of them.
At last a Scottish sailor, who was on board, called to
me, and I answered him, and told him that I was an
Englishman, and that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then they bade me
come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods.

It was inexpressible joy to me, more than anyone
would believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed
it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless con-
dition as I was in. I immediately offered all I had to
the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance;
but he generously told me he would take nothing from
' me. He assured me that all that I had should be de-
livered safe to me when I came to the Brazils.

*Perspective-glasses = spyglasses = telescopes.
"For," said he, "I have saved your life on no other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself. It
may one time or other be my lot to be taken up in the
same condition. Besides," said he, "when I carry you
to the Brazils, so great a way from your own country,
if I should take away from you what you have, you
will be starved there, and then I only take away that
life I have given. No, no, Seignor, Mr. Englishman, I
will carry you thither in charity, and those things will
help you to buy your subsistence there, and your pets
sage home again."

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just
in the performance to a tittle, for he ordered the sea-
men that none should offer to touch anything I had.
Then he took everything into his own possession, and
gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them. He even included my earthen jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it. I told

him that he had been so generous to me in everything
that I could not offer to make any price of the boat,
but left it entirely to him. Upon this he told me that
he would give me a note of his hand to pay me eighty
pieces of eight* for it at Brazil, and, when it came there,
if anyone offered to give more, he would make it up.
He offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my
boy me, which I was loath to take, not that I was
" The piece of eight was the Spanish dollar.
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, since he had assisted
- me so faithfully in procuring my own. However, when
I let the captain know my reason, he owned it to be
just, and offered me this compromise that he would
promise to set the boy free 1n ten years, if he turned
Christian. Upon this, when Xury said he was willing
to go to him, I let the captain have him.45

' CHAPTER III

LIFE AND TRAVEL IN SOUTH AMERICA

E had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and
arrived in All-Saints Bay in about twenty-two

days. And now I was once more delivered
from the most miserable of all conditions of life, and
what to do next with myself I was now to consider.

, The generous treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember. He would take nothing of
me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats" for the leop-
ard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in
my boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to
be punctually delivered me; and what I was willing to
sell he bought, such as the case of bottles, two of my
guns, and a piece of the lump of beeswax, for I had
made candles of the rest. In a word, I made about
two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo,
and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here before I was recommended
to the house of a good honest man like myself, who had
an ingenio, as they call it, that is, a plantation and a
sugar house. I lived with him some time, and ac-
quainted myself by that means with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar. Seeing how well

*A ducat was formerly a gold or silver European coin varying in
value from about 83 cents to $2.25.

43
the planters lived, and how they grew rich quickly, I
resolved, if I could get license to settle there, that I
would turn planter among them. I decided in the
meantime to find some way to have my money, which
I had left in London, remitted to me. To'this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization,Ipurchased
as much land that was uncured as my money would
reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and settle-
ment, and such a one as might be suitable to the stock '
which I planned to receive from England.

I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, born of
English parents, whose name was Wells. He was in
much such circumstances as I was. I call him neighbor,
because his plantation lay next to mine and we went
on very sociably together. My stock was low, as his
was, and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and our land began to come into order, so that
the third year we planted some tobacco, and made
each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting
canes in the year to come; but we both'wanted help.

I had no remedy but to go on; I had fallen into an
employment quite remote to my genius and directly
contrary to my desires. I regretted that I had left
my father's house, and broken through all his good
advice. I said to myself that I might as well have
stayed at home in England among my friends. I
ought never to have come these five thousand miles

to be among strangers.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse _
with, but now and then this neighbor; no work to be
done, but by the labor of my hands; and I used to say
that I lived just like a man cast away upon some des-
olate island, that had nobody there but himself. But
how just has it been, and how should all men reflect,
that, when they compare their present conditions with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make
the exchange, and teach them to be convinced of their
former felicity, by their experience. I say, how just has
it been that the truly solitary life I reflected on in an
island of mere desolation should be my lot, Who had
so often unjustly compared it with the life which I
then led, in which, had I continued, I had in all prob-
ability been exceeding prosperous and rich.

I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back;
for the ship remained there, providing his loading and
preparing for his voyage, nearly three months. When I
told him what little stock I had left behind me in Lon-
don, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice.

"Siegnor Inglese," says he (for so he always called
me), "if you will give me letters, and an order made
out to me, with directions to the person who has your
money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to
such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are
proper for this country, I will bring you the produce
of them, God willing, at my return. However, since
human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters,
I would have you give orders for but one hundred
pounds sterling, which you. say is half your stock, and
let the hazard be run for the first. Then, if it comes
safe, you may order the rest the same way. If it mis-
carries, you may 'have the other half to have recourse
to it for your supply."

This was such wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced that it was
the best course that I could take; so I accordingly
prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had
left my money, and gave an order to the Portuguese
captain, as he desired. ,

I wrote the English captain's Widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, my escape, and how I
had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the hu-
manity of his behavior, and what condition I was now
in, with all other necessary directions for my supply.
When this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found
means, by some of, the English merchants there, to
send over, not the order only, but a full account of my
story, to a merchant at London, who repeated it to
my friend. Thereupon, she not only delivered the
money, but out of her own pocket sent the Portugal
captain a very handsome present for his humanity
and charity to me.

The merchant in London spent this hundred pounds
for English goods, such as the captain had written for,
and sent them directly to him at Lisbon. He brought
them all safe to me to the Brazils. Among them,
without my directions (for I was too young in my
business to think of them), he had taken care to have
all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised and delighted at it. My good
steward the captain had taken the five pounds which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to
purchase and bring me over a servant under bond for
six years' service. He would not accept any considera-
tion, except a little tobacco of my own produce, which
I insisted that he accept.

Neither was this all. My goods being all English
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage, so
that I may say I had more than four times the value
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor neighbor in the advancement of my plantation.
The first thing I did was to buy a Negro slave and
another European servant besides the one which the
captain had brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
' very means of our greatest adversity, so it was with me.
I went on the next year with great success in my plan-
tation. I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own
ground, more than I had disposed of for necessariesr

48 ROBINSON CRUSOE

among my neighbors, and these fifty rolls, each above
an hundredweight, were well cured and laid by against
the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now, as I
increased in business and in wealth, my head began to
be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach,
. such as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in
business.

As, I had persisted in breaking away from my par-
ents, so I could not be content now, but I must go and
leave the happy View I had of being a rich and thriving
man in my' new plantation, only to pursue a rash and
immoderate desire of rising faster than the nature of
the thing admitted. Thus I cast myself down again
into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man
fell into, or perhaps that could be consistent with life
and a state of health in the world.

Let me come then by the proper degrees to the par-
ticulars of this part of my story. As you may suppose,
since I had now lived almost four years in the Brazils,
and had begun to thrive and prosper very well upon
my plantation, I had not only learned the language,
but had contracted acquaintance and friendship among
my fellow planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvadore, which was our port. In my discourses
among them I had frequently given them an account
of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner
of trading with the Negroes there, and how easy it was
to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such as beads,
toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the
like, not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants'
teeth, but Negroes for the service of the Brazils, in great
numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on this subject, but especially to that part
which related to buying Negroes.

It happened one day that I was with some mer-
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and as usual I
talked of those things very earnestly. The next morn'
ing three of them came to me and told me that they had
been thinking very much about what I had told them
the night before. They came to make a secret proposal
to me, and, after enjoining secrecy, they told me that
' they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea.
They all had plantations as well as I, and were in need
of servants." They knew that this was a trade that
could not be carried on indefinitely, because they could
not publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so
they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the Ne
groes on shore privately, and divide them among their
own plantations. In a word, the question was whether
I would go as their supercargo in the ship, to manage
the trading part upon the coast of Guinea. They
offered me an equal share of the Negroes, without my
providing any part of the stock.

This would have been a fair proposal, it must be
confessed, had it been made to anyone that had not
had a settlement and plantation of his own to look
after, which was in a fair way of becoming very con-
siderable, and with a good stock upon it. But I was
thus entered and established, and had nothing to do
but go on as I had begun, and by sending for the other
hundred pounds from England, in three or four years
I could scarcely have failed being worth three or four
thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing, too.
For me to think of such a voyage as these men proposed
was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such
circumstances could be guilty of.

However, I told them that I would go with all my
heart, if they would undertake to look after my plan-
tation in my absence, and would dispose of it tosuch
as I should direct if my plans miscarried. This they all
agreed to do, and entered into writings or covenants
to do so. I made a formal will, disposing of my plan-
tation and effects, in case of my death, making the
captain of the ship that saved my life, as before, my only
heir. However, I obliged him to dispose of my effectsas
I had directed in my will, one half of the produce being
to himself, and the other to be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my
effects and keep up my plantation. Had I used half as
much prudence in looking into my own interest, and
making a judgment of what I ought to have done
and ought not to have done, I had certainly never
gone away from so prosperous an undertaking, leav-
ing what was in all probability a thriving circumstance,
to go upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its com-

mon hazards.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the die-
tates of my fancy rather than my reason. Accordingly,
when the ship was fitted out, and the cargo furnished,
and all things done as by agreement by my partners
in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the 1st
of September--just eight years from the day when I
had left my father and mother and had sailed from Hull.

Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried 6
guns and .14 men, besides the master, his boy, and
myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods, ex--
cept such toys as were fit for our trade with the Negroes,
such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, es-
pecially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets,
and the like. .,

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with de-
sign to stretch over for the African coast when we came
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which
it seems was the manner of the course in those days.
We had very good weather, only excessively hot, all the
way upon our own coast till we came to height of Cape
St. Augustine; from there, keeping farther off at sea,
we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound
for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our course
N. E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In
this course we passed the line in about twelve days'
time, and were by our last observation in seven de-
grees twenty-two minutes northern latitude, when a
violent tornado or hurricane took us quite out of our
knowledge. It began from the southeast, came about
to the northwest, and then settled into the northeast,
whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we could do nothing but drive, and
scudding away before it, let it carry us wherever fate
and the fury of the winds directed.

In this distress, besides the terror of the storm, one
of our men died of fever, and one man and the boy were
washed overboard. About the twelfth day, when the
weather abated a little, the master made an observa-
tion as well as he could, and found that he was in about
eleven degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-
two degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St.
Augustino. Thus he found that he was off the north
coast of Brazil, beyond the river Amazones,* toward
that of the river Oronoque,* commonly called the
Great River.

I studied the charts with him, and we concluded
that there was no inhabited country where we could
land, till we came within the circle of the Caribbee
Islands. Therefore we resolved to stand away for
Barbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea to avoid the
current of the bay or Gulf of Mexico, we could easily
reach, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail. On the
other hand, we could not possibly make our voyage
to the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to
our ship and to ourselves.

With this design we changed our course, and steered

" The Amazones is the Amazon, and the Oronoque the Orinoco.
away N. W. by W. in order to reach some of our English
islands, where I hoped for relief. However, our voyage
was otherwise determined. When we were in the lati-
tude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm
came upon us, which carried us westward with the
same force and drove us so out of the way of civiliza-
tion, that had all our lives been saved, as to the sea,
we were in danger of being devoured by savages.

While .we were in this distress with the Wind still
blowing very hard, one of our men early in the morning
cried out, "Land!" We had no sooner run out of the
cabin to look out, in the hope of seeing where in the
world we were, when the ship struck upon sand, and
in a moment, the sea broke over her in such a manner
that we expected to perish immediately. We were
driven at once into our close quarters for shelter from
the very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for anyone who has not been in the
same condition to conceive the consternation of men
in such circumstances. We knew nothing where we
were, or upon what land it was we were driven, whether
an island or the main, whether inhabited or not in'
habited. As the rage of the wind was still great, though
rather less than at first, we could not so much as hope
to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking
in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should
turn immediately about. In a word, We sat looking
one upon another, and expecting death every moment.

Every man acted accordingly as though he were pre-
5
paring for another world, for there was little or nothing
more for us to do in this. Our present comfort, and all
the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our expecta-
tion, the ship did not break yet, and the master said
the wind began to abate.

Now, though we found that the wind did a little
abate; yet the ship was sticking too fast upon the sand
for us to expect to get her off, and we were in a dreadful
condition indeed. We had nothing to do but to think
of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a boat
at our stern just before the storm, but she had first
staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, and in
the next place she had broken away, and either sunk
or was driven off to sea, so that there was no hope from
her. We had another boat on board, but how to get
her off into the sea was a doubtful thing. However,
there was no time to debate, for we fancied the ship
would break in pieces every minute, and some told us
she was actually beginning to break already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lay hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, got
her slung over the ship's side. We all, eleven in number,
got into her, let go, and committed ourselves to God's
mercy and the wild sea.

And now Our case was very dismal indeed, for we
all saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat
could not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned.
We had no sail, nor, if we had, could we have done any-
thing with it, so We worked at the oar toward the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution.
We all knew that when the boat came nearer the shore
she would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach
of the sea. However, we committed our souls to God
in the most earnest manner, and the wind driving us
toward the shore, we hastened our destruction with our
own hands, pulling as well as we could toward land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not. The only hope that
could rationally give us the least shadow of expecta<<
tion was that we might happen into some bay or gulf,
or the mouth of some river, where by great chance we
could run our boat in, or get under the lee-of the land,
and perhaps make smooth water. But nothing of this
kind appeared, and as we made nearer and nearer the
shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave,
mountain-like, came rolling astern of us. It took us
with such a fury that it upset the boat at once, and
separated us, as well from the boat as from one an-
other.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sank into the water. Although I
swam very well, I could not deliver myself from the
water so as to draw breath, till that wave, having driven .
me, or rather carried me, a vast way on toward the
shore, spent itself, and went back, leaving me upon the
land almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in.
I had so much presence of mind, as well as breath left,
that, seeing myself nearer the mainland than I ex-
pected, I got upon my feet, and endeavored to make
on toward it as fast as I could, before another'wave
should return and take me up again. But I soon
found that it was impossible to avoid it. I saw the sea
come after me as high as a great hill, and as furious as
an enemy which I had no means or strength to con-
tend with. My business was to hold my breath, and
raise myself upon the water, if I could, and pilot my-
self toward safety, if possible. My greatest concern
now was that the wave that would carry me a great
way toward the shore when it came on, might not
carry me back again with it when it gave back toward
the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and
I could feel myself carried with a mighty force and swift-
ness toward the shore'a very great way. I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim forward with all
my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when I felt myself rising up, and to my immediate re-
lief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the
surface of the water. Though it was not two seconds
of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me
greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a geod while, but not so long
but I held it out. When I found that the water had
spent itself and was beginning to return, I struck
forward against the return of the waves, and felt
ground again with my feet. I stood still a few moments
to recover breath, and till the water went from me, and
then took to my heels and ran with what strength I
had farther up the shore. But neither would this de-
liver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring
in after me again, and twice more I was lifted up by
the waves and carried forward as before, the shore be.
ing very flat.

The last time was almost fatal to me, for when the
sea had hurried me along as before, it dashed me against
a piece of rock with such force that it left'me senseless,
and helpless to save myself. I struck my side and breast,
so that the breath was beaten out of my body, and had
it not returned again immediately, I must have been
strangled in the water. However, I recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and since the waves
were not so high as at first, being near land, I held fast
to the rock til] the wave abated. Then I managed an-
other run, which brought me so near the shore that the
next wave, though it went over me, did not carry me
away. The next run I took I got to the mainland,
where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the clefts
of the shore, and sat down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.
SALVAGE FROM THE WRECK

WAS now landed and safe on shore, and began to

look up and thank God that my life was saved,

when some minutes before there had been scarcely
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to ex-
press in full what the ecstasies and transports of the
soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the
very grave. I walked about on the shore, lifting up
my hands, and my Whole being, wrapped up in
the contemplation of my deliverance, reflecting upon
all my comrades that were drowned, for I never
'saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except
three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were
not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it,
it lay so far off, and wondered how it was possible that

I had reached shore!
' After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look around me, to
see what kind of place I was in, and what was next to
be done. I soon found that I had had a dreadful de-
liverance. For I was wet, and had no clothes to change
to, nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me.

Moreover, I saw no prospect before me but that of
58
perishing with hunger, or of being devoured by wild
beasts. I was particularly disturbed because I had no
weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for my sus-
tenance, or to defend myself against any other crea-
ture that might desire to kill me for his. In a word, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco pipe, and
a little tobacco in a box. This threw me into such
terrible agonies of mind that for a while I ran about
like a madman. When night came upon me, I began
with a heavy heart to consider what would be my
lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country,
since at night they always come abroad for their prey.
The only thing that I could think of to do was to
climb up into a thick, bushy tree like a fir, although
it was thorny, which grew near me. I resolved to sit
there all night, and consider the next day what death
I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I
walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I
could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my
great joy. When I had drunk, and put a little tobacco
in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and
climbing up into it tried to place myself so as that if
I should sleep I might not fall. When I had cut a
short stick for my defense, I settled myself and, since
I was extremely tired, fell fast asleep, and slept com~
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my
condition. '

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before. What surprised me most, however,
was that the ship had been lifted by the swelling tide
from the sand where she had lain and was driven up
almost as far as the rock against which I had been
dashed. This was within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and since the ship seemed to stand up-
right still, I Wished myself on board, that, at least, I
might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again, and the first thing I found
was the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
tossed her, up-upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked along the shore to reach her, but
found a neck or inlet of water about half a mile broad
between me and the boat; so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find some food.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship, and here I found a fresh
' ,renewing of my grief. I saw that if we had kept on board,
we should all have reached shore in safety and I should
not have been so miserable as to be left entirely desti-
tute of all comfort and company, as I now was. This
forced tears from my eyes again, but as there was little
relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship.
I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to ex-
tremity, and took the water. When I came to the ship,
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on
board, for as she lay aground, and high out of the
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold
of. I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of rope, which I wondered I had
not seen at first. It hung down by the forechains so
low that with great difficulty I gotrhold of it, and by
the help of that rope got up into the forecastle of the
ship.. Here I found that the ship was bulged and had
a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so
on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that
her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter
was free, and all that was in that part was dry. You
may be sure my first work was to search to see what
was spoiled and what was free. First I found that all
the ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the
water, and being very hungry, I went to the bread
room and filled my pockets with biscuits, and ate
them as I went about other things, for I had no time
to lose. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish
myself with many things which I foresaw would be
very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity roused my applicatiOn.
We had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the ship.
I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as many
of them overboard as I could manage for their weight,
tying every one with a rope that they might not drive
away. When this was done I went down the ship's
side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast
tOgether at both ends, as well as I could, in the formtof .
a raft. Laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them crosswise, I found that I could walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great weight,
because the pieces were too light. So I went to work,
and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with
a great deal of labor and pains. The hope of furnish-
ing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go be-
yond what I should have been able to do upon
another occasion. .

My raft was now strong enough for any reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and
howwto preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of
the sea, but I was not long considering this. I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I
got three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft. The first of these I filled with provisions, bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's
flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little remainder.
of European grain. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I
found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it
all. As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles be-
longing to our skipper, in which were some cordial
waters, and in all about five or six gallons. These I
stowed by themselves, there being no need to 'put them
into the chest and no room for them. While I was
doing this, I found that the tide had begun to flow,
though very calmly, and I had the mortification of
seeing my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left
on shore upon the sand, swim away. My breeches
were only linen and open--kneed, and I had swum on
board in them and my stockings. However, this set
me to rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for present use. I
had other things which my eye was more upon, such as
tools to work with on shore. It was after lOng search
ing that I found the carpenter's chest, which was in-
deed a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable
than a shipload of gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in gen-
eral what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. .
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin and two pistols. These I secured first, with
some powder-horns, and a small bag of shot and two
old rusty swords. I knew that there were three barrels _
of powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner
had stowed them. After much search I found them,
two of them dry and good, but the third had taken
water. Those two I got to my raft, with the arms.
N 0W I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began
to wonder how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and the least cupful of
wind would have upset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: a smooth, calm sea,

' the tide rising and setting into the shore, and what

little wind there was blowing me toward the land.
Thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging
to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest,
I found two saws, an ax, and a hammer, and with this
cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or thereabouts, my

' raft went very well, except that I found it drive a little

distant from the place where I had landed before, by
which I perceived that there was some current of the
water. and consequently I hoped to find some creek
or river there, which I might make use of as a port to'
get ,to land "with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before
me a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as
well as I could to keep in the middle of the stream.
Here I almost suffered a second shipwreck. If I had, I
think it would have broken my heart. I knew nothing
of the coast, and my raft run aground at one end of it
upon a shoal. Since it was not aground at the other,
end, my cargo very nearly slipped off t0ward that end
that was afloat, and so into the water. I did my ut~
most,'by setting my back against the chests, to keep
them in their places, but I could not thrust off the raft
with all my strength, neither dared I stir from the po-
sition I was in. Holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner nearly half an hour, in
which time the rising of the water brought me a little
more upon a level. A little after, the water still rising,
my raft floated again, and I thrust her off into the
channel with the oar I had. Then driving up higher,
I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide
running up. I looked on both sides for a proper place
to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too
high up the river. I hoped in time to see some ship at
sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the
coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, that, reaching
ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly in.
But here I almost dipped all my cargo in the sea again,
for that shore sloped, so that there was no place to
land, except where one end of the float, if it ran on
shore, would lie so high, and the other sink so low,
that it would endanger my cargo._ All that I could do
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the
raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side of it
fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I
expected the water would flow over, and so it did. As
soon as I found water enough (for my raft drew about
a foot of water), I thrust her upon that flat piece of
ground, and there fastened or moored her by sticking
my two broken oars into the ground, one on one side
near one end, and one on the other side near the other
end. Thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left
my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to View the country, and seek a
proper place for my dwelling, and a place to stow my
goods to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was I yet knew not; whether on the continent
or on an island, whether surrounded by savages or
alone, whether in danger of wild beasts or not. There
was a hill not more than a mile from me, which rose
up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop
some other hills which lay as in a ridge from it north-
ward. I took out one of the fowling~pieces, and one
of the pistols, anda horn of powder, and thus armed
I traveled up to the top of that hill to look over the
ground. There, after I had with great labor and diffi-.
culty reached the top, I saw my fate. I was in an
island surrounded on all sides by the sea. There was
.land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great
way off, and two small islands less than this, which
lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, ex-
cept by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none.
I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds,
neither when I killed them could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. On my way back I shot at a
great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side
of a wood. I believe it was the first gun that had ever
been fired there. I had no sooner fired-than from all
parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number
of fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming.
Not one of them was of a kind that I knew. As for the
creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its
color and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or
claws more than common; its flesh was carrion and
fit for nothing.

' Satisfied with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo to shore, which
took me the rest of that day. What to do with
myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest.
I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing
but some wild beast might devour me, though, as I
afterwards found, there was really no need for those
fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of hut for that night's
lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to supply
myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures,
like hares, run out of the wood where I shot the bird.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship which would be use-
ful to me, and particularly some of the rigging and
sails, and such other things as might come to land,
andI resolved to make another voyage on board the
vessel, if possible. I knew that the first storm that
blew must necessarily break her all to pieces, and I re-
solved to set all other things aside till I got everything
out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council,
that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take
back the raft, but this appeared impracticable, so I
resolved to .go as before, when the tide was down.
I did so, but I stripped before I went from my hut,
having nothing on but a checkered shirt and a pair of
linen trousers and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a
second raft, and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard.
Yet I brought away several things very useful to me.
In the carpenter's stores I found two or three bags full
of nails and spikes, a great screw jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing
called a grindstone. All these I secured, together with

"several things belonging to the gunner, particularly
two or three iron crowbars, and two barrels of musket
bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
some small quantity of powder more, a large bag full
of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead.- However, '
this last was so heavy that I could not hoist it up to
get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find and a spare foretop-sail, hammock,
and some bedding. With this I loaded my second raft,
and brought them all safe to shore, to my very great
comfort.
I was afraid that during my absence from the
land my provisions might be devoured, but when I
came back, I found no Sign of any visitor, except that
a creature like a wild cat sat upon one of the chests.
When I came toward her, she ran away a little distance,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and un-
concerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
mind to be acquainted with me. I leveled my gun at
her, but as she did not understand it, she was perfectly
unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away. At
that I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I
was not very free of it, for my store was not great.
However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she'went to it,
smelled it, ate it, and looked for more, but I could spare
no more, so she marched off.

When I had got my second cargo on shore, though
I was eager to open the barrels of powder, and bring them
by parcels (for they were too heavy, being large casks),
I went to work to make me a little tent with the sail and
some poles which I cut for that purpose. Into this
tent I brought everything that I knew would spoil,
either with rain or sun, and I piled all the-empty chests
and casks up in a circle round the. tent, to fortify
it from any sudden attempt, either from man or
beast. _

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set
up on end without. Spreading a bed on the ground,
and (laying my two pistols just at my head, and my gun
in pieces of the sails, which I cut out. In a word, I got
all this safe on shore also.

' The next day I made another voyage. Now that
I had plundered the ship of what was portable and fit
to hand out, I began ,with the cables. Cutting the
great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I got two -
cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron work
I could get. When .I had cut down the spritsail-yard,
and the mizzen-yard, and everything I could to make
a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods and
came away. But my good luck began now to leave
me, for this raft was so unwieldy and so overloaded,
that after I had entered the little cove, Where I had
landed the rest of my goods, I could not guide it so
handily as I did the other, and it upset and threw me
and all my cargo into the water. As for myself it was
no great harm, for I was near the shore, but a great
part of my cargo was lost, especially the iron, which
I had thought would be of great use to me. However,
when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite
labor, for I had to dip for it into the water--a work
which fatigued me very much. After this, I went every
day on board and brought away what I could get.

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could be well
supposed capable to bring, though I verily believe.
had the calm. weather held, I should have brought
beside me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept
very quietly all night, f0r I was very weary. The night
before I had slept little, and I had worked very hard
all day.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man, but still I was
not satisfied. While the ship stood upright, I thought
that I ought to get everything out of her I could. Every
day at low water I went on board, and brought away
something or other. The third time I went, I brought
away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the
small ropes and rope twine I could get, with a piece
of spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon oc-
casion, and also the barrel of wet gunpoWder. In a
. word, I brought away all the sails first and last, but I
had to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a
time as I could, for they were no longer useful as sails,
but as mere canvas only.

But that which comforted me more still was that,
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with, I found a
great hogshead of bread, and three large runlets* of
rum or spirits, a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine
flour. This was surprising to me, because I had given
up expecting to find any more provisions, except what
was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead
of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel,

* Runlet: An obsolete word for "rundlet," a. wine barrel.
away the whole ship, piece by'piece. But as I prepared
the twelfth time to' go on board, I found that the Wind
had begun to rise. However, at low water I went on
board, and though I thought I had rummaged the

cabin so effectually that nothing more could be found,
- yet I discovered a locker with drawers m it, in one of
which I found two or three razors and one pair of
large scissors, with some ten or a dozen good knives
and forks. In another I found about thirty-six pounds
value in money, some European coin, some Brazil,
some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money.

"0 Drug," said I, aloud, "what art thou good
for? Thou art not worth to me, no, not the taking off
the ground. One of these knives is worth all this heap.
I have no manner of use for thee, even remain where
thou art and go to the bottom, as a creature whose
life is not worth saving."

However, upon second thought, I took it away.
. Wrapping all that'I had found in a piece of canvas, I
Pto think of making another raft, but While I

. as preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the
wind rising, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me that
it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind
off shore, and that it was my business to be gone be-
fore the tide of flood began. Otherwise I might not be
able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly, I let myself
down into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even
that with difficulty enough, partly because of the weight
of things I had about me, and partly because 'of the
roughness of the water. The wind rose very hastily,
and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was home in my little tent, where I lay very
secure with all my wealth about me. It blew very
hard all that night, and in the morning when I looked
out, behold no more ship was to be seen. I was a little
surprised, but comforted myself with the satisfactory
reflection that I had lost no tinie, nor spared any pains -
to get everything out of her that could be useful to me.
Indeed, there was little left in her that I should have
been able to bring away, if I had had more time.
BUILDING MY HOME

"Y thoughts were now wholly employed with
securing myself against either savages, if any
should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in

the island. I had many thoughts of the method how
to do this, and what kind 'of dwelling to make. I
considered whether I should make a cave in the earth,
or a tent upon the earth, and, finally I decided upon
both.

I soon found that the place I was in was not suit-
able for my home, partly because it was low, marshy
ground near the sea, and I believed it would not be
wholesome, and more particularly because there was
no fresh water near it. Accordingly I resolved to find
a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.

I considered several things in choosing my loca-
' tion: health and fresh water, I just now mentioned;
shelter from the heat of the sun; security from raven-
ous creatures, whether man or beast; a View of the sea,
so that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose
any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was not
willing to banish all hope yet.

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill. The front toward this

little plain was as steep as a house side, so that nothing
74
could come down upon me from the top. On the side
of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way
in, like the entrance or door of a cave, but there was
not really any cave or way into the rock at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not
above an hundred yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a green before my door. At the end
it descended irregularly into the low grounds by the
seaside. It was on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so that'
I was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a
W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which in those
countries is near the setting. v

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its
semi-diameter, from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending.

In this half circle I pitched two rows' of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm, like piles, the biggest end being out of the
ground about five feet and a half, and sharpened on
the top. The two rows did not stand more than six
inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows one upon another,
within the circle between these two rows of stakes, up
to the top. I placed other stakes in the inside, leaning
against them, about two foot and a half high, like a
spur to _a post. This fence was so strong that neither
man nor beast could get into it or over it. This cost
me a great deal of time and labor, especially to cut .
the piles in the woods, bring them to the. place, and
drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top. When
I was in, I lifted the ladder over after me, and so
I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thought
from all the world. Consequently I slept secure in the

'night, which otherwise I could not have done. As it
appeared afterwards, however, there was no need of all
this caution from the enemies that I feared.

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above. To
protect me from the rains, which in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made a large, double tent,
one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above
it. I covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin
which I had saved among the sails.

I no longer slept in the bed which I had brought on
shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very

_ good one, and had belonged to the mate of the ship.

Into my tent I brought all my provisions, and every-

thing that would spoil by the wet. When I had brought

' my goods I closed up the entrance, which till now I had
left open, and after that passed and repassed, as I
said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock. I brought all the earth and stones that I
dug down out through my tent, and laid them up with-
in my fence in the nature of a' terrace so that it raised
the ground about a foot and a half. Thus I made a
cave just behind my tent, which served me as a cellar
to my house.

It cost me much labor and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection, and there-
fore I must go back to some other things which took
up some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened,
after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent
and making the cave, that a storm of rain fell from a
thick, dark cloud, there was a sudden flash of lightning,
and after that a great clap of thunder. I was not so
much surprised by the lightning, as I was terrified by
a thought which darted into my mind as swift as the
lightning itself. My powder! My very heart sank
Within me, when I. thought that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed, on which, not my defense
only, but the providing food, as I thought, entirely
depended. I was not nearly so anxious about my
own danger, although, hadthe powder taken fire, I
should never have known what had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over I laid aside all my works, my build- .
ing and fortifying, and applied myself to making bags
and boxes to separate the powder. I put but little in
each package and then hid the box, or bag, in the rocks
as far from the others asI could. I did this in the hope.5,

7s ROBINSON CRUSOE

that even if one part of my powder was struck, the rest
might be saved. I finished this work in about a fort-
night, and I think my powder, which in all ,was about
two hundred and forty pounds, was divided in not
less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had
been wet, I did not expect any danger from that, so I
placed it in my new cave, which, in my fancy, I called
my kitchen. The rest I hid up and down in holes among
the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking
very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while I was doing this, I
went out once at least every day with my gun, as well
to divert myself as to see if I could kill anything fit for
food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went out
I presently discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me, but then
it was attended with this misfortune, that they were so
shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most
difficult thing in the world to come at them. But I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting that I
might now and then shoot one, as it soon happened.
After I had found their haunts, I laid wait in this
manner for them. I observed that if they saw me in
the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they
would run away as in a terrible fright, but if they were
feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks, they
took no notice of me. From this I concluded that by
. the position of their eyes, their sight was so directed
downward, that they did not readily see objects that
were above them, so afterwards I took this method. I
always climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and
then I had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made
among these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had
a little kid by her. This grieved me greatly, but when
the old one 'fell, the kid stood stock-still by her till I
came and took her up. Not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid fol-
lowed me quite to my inclosure. Upon this I laid down
the dam, and took the kid in my arms and- carried it
over my pale, in the hope of taming it, but it would not
eat, so I was forced to kill it and eat it myself. These
two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I ate

, sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread es-
pecially) as much as I possibly could.

Now that I had fixed my habitation, I found it ab-
solutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in,
and fuel to burn. What I did for that, as also how I
enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, I
shall give a full account of in its place, but I must
first give some little account of myself, and of my
thoughts about living, which it may well be supposed
were not a few.

My outlook was dismal, for as I was not cast away
upon that island without being driven, as is said, by
a Violent storm quite out of the course of our intended
voyage, and a great way, some hundreds of leagues,
out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I
had great reason to consider it as a determination of
Heaven that in this desolate place and in this desolate
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run
plentifully down my face when I made these reflections,
and sometimes I would wonder why Providence should
thus completely ruin his creatures, and render them so
absolutely miserable, so without help, so entirely de-
pressed, that it could hardly be rational to be thankful
for such a life.

' But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts and reprove me. I remember
particularly one day when I was walking with my gun
in my hand by the seaside, I was very pensive upon the
subject of my present condition, when reason, as it
were, expostulated with me the other way, thus: "Well,
you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but pray re-.
member, where are the rest of you? Did not eleven of
you come into the boat? Where are the ten? Why
were they not saved and you lost? Why were you
singled out? Is it better to be here or there? All evils
are to be considered with the good that is in them, and
with what worse attends them."

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistence, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened, which was a hundred
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck, and was driven so near the shore
that I had time to get all these things out of her.
What would have been my case if I had had to live in
the condition in which I at first came on shore, without
necessaries of life or necessaries to supply and procure
them? '

"Particularly," said I aloud (though to myself),
"what should I have done without a gun, without
ammunition, without any tools to make anything, or
to work with; without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any
manner of covering?"

And now that I had all these to a sufficient quan--
tity, I was in a fair way to provide myself in such a
manner as to live without my gun when my ammunition
was spent, so that I was reasonably sure of living,
without any want, as long as I lived. I.had Considered
from the beginning how I should provide for the acci-
dents that might happen and for the time that was to
come, even not only after my ammunition should be
spent, but even after my health or strength should
decay.

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed 'at one blast, and this
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me when it
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now.

And now being about to enter into the melancholy
story of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it from
its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, -
by my account, the 30th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid
island. The sun being, to us, in its autumnal equinox,
was almost directly over my head. I reckoned myself,
by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees and
22 minutes north of- the line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckon-
ing of time for want of books and pen and. ink, and'
should even confuse the Sabbath days with the work-
ing days. To prevent this, I cut with my knife upon a
large post in capital letters, I GAME ON SHORE HERE ON
THE 30TH 0F SEPT., 1659. Making it into a great cross,
I set it up on the shore where I first landed. Upon the
sides of this square post I cut every day a notch with
my knife, and every seventh'notch was as long again
as the rest, and every first day of the month as long
again as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar,
or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe that, among the
many things which I brought out of the ship in the
several voyages which I made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not all less useful to me, which I
omitted setting down before: in particular, pens, ink,
and paper; several parcels in the captain's, mate's,
gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four com- .
passes, some mathematical instruments, dials, per-
spective glasses, charts, and books of navigation. All
these I huddled together, whether I might want them or
not. Also I found three very good Bibles which came to
me in mycargo from England, and which I had packed up
among my things. There were some Portuguese books,I cut with my knife upon a large post

83
also, and among them two or three Popish prayer
books, and several other books, all Of which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget that we had in the
ship a dog and two cats, of whose history I may have
occasion to say something in its place. I carried both
the cats with me and the 'dog jumped out of the ship
himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went
on shore with my first cargo. He was a trusty servant
to me for many years. I wanted nothing that he could
bring me, or any company that he could make up to
me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that he
could not do. As I observed before, I found pen, ink,
and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost;
I shall show that, while my ink lasted, I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not, for I
could not make any ink, by any means that I could
devise. '

This put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had gathered together.
Of these ink was one, as were a spade, a pickax, and a
shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles; pins, and
thread. As for linen, I soon learned to do without
that without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily, and it was nearly a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale and my dwelling. The
piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I could well
lift, took a long time to cut and prepare in the woods,

and more by far to bring home, so that I spent some-
7
times two days in cutting and bringing home one of
those posts, and a third day in driving it into the
ground. For this purpose I got a heavy piece of wood
at first, but at last I thought of using one of the iron
crowbars. Even with this, driving those posts or piles
was very tiresome and tediouswork.

But I had no need to be concerned at the tedious-
ness of anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough
to do it in, nor had I any other employment if that
had been over, at least that I could foresee, except
ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more
or less every day.

I have already described my habitatlon, which was
a tent under the side of a r00k, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables, but I might now rather call
it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against it of turf,
about two feet thick on the outside. After some time,
I think it was a year and a half, I raised rafters from it,
leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with
boughs of trees and such things as I could get to keep
out the rain, which I found at some times of the year
very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. At first this was a confused heap of goods,
which, as they lay in no order, took up all my place so
that I had no room to turn myself. Accordingly, I
set to work to enlarge my cave and work farther into
the earth, for it was a loose, sandy rock, which'yielded
easily to the labor I bestowed on it. When I formd I
was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways
to the right hand into the rock, and then turning to
the right again, worked quite out, and made a door
to come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.

This gave me not only a way of going in and out,
as it were a back way to my tent and to my store-
house, but it gave me also room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particularly
a chair and a table, for without these I was not able
to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world. I could
not write or eat, or do several things, with much pleas-
ure without a table.

So I went to work, and here I must needs observe
that, as reason is the substance and original of the
mathematics, so by stating and squaring everything
by reason, and by making the most rational judg-
ment of things, every man may be in time master of
every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in
my life, and yet in time by labor, application, and cen-
trivance, I found at last that I wanted nothing that I
could not have made, if I had had the right tools.
However, I made an abundance of things, even without
proper tools, and some with no more tools than an
adz and a hatchet (which, perhaps, were never made
that way before, and that with infinite labor). If I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down
a tree, hew it flat on either side with my ax, till I had
made it as thin as a plank, and then rub it smooth with
my adz. It is true that by this method I could make
but one board out of a whole tree, but I had no
remedy for this, any more than I had for the pro-
digious deal of time and labor which it took me up to
make a plank or board. My time or labor was worth
little, however, and so it was as well employed one way
as another.

However, I first made a table and a chair, as I ob-
served above, and this I did out of the short pieces of
boards which I brought on my raft from the ship.
When I had hewed out some boards, I made large
shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over an-
other, all along one side of my cave, where I laid all my
tools, nails, and iron work. I knocked pieces into the
wall of the rock to hold my guns and all things that
would hang up.

As a result, my cave looked like a general maga-
zine of all necessary things. I had everything so ready
to my hand that it was a great pleasure to me to 'see
all my goods in such order, and especially to find my
stock of all necessaries so great.

, And now it was that I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment. Before this I was in too
milch hurry, and not only hurry as to labor, but in
too much distress of mind, and my journal would have
been full of many dull things. ~

, I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be
told many particulars over again) as long as it lasted.
As I have said, when I had no more ink, I was forced
to give up.

THE JOURNAL

September 30, 1659.' I, poor, miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm in
the offing, came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate
island, which I called the Island of Despair. All the
rest of the ship's company were drowned, and I myself
was almost dead.

All the rest of that day I spent in pitying myself
because of the dismal circumstances I was brought to.
I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place
to fly to, and in despair of any relief, I saw nothing but
death before me, either that I should be devoured by
wild beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death
for want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures, but I slept soundly
though it rained all night.

October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, that the ship had floated with the high tide,
and was driven on shore again much nearer the island.
This was some comfort, on one hand, for seeing her
stand upright and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the
wind abated, to'get on board and get some food or
necessaries out of her for my relief. On the other hand,
it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, for I
imagined if we had all stayed on board we might have.
saved the ship. At least they would not all have been
drowned, as they were, and, had the men been saved,
we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the ruins
of the ship, to have carried us to some other part of
the world. I spent a great part of this day in perplexing
myself on these things; but at length, seeing the ship
almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could,
and then swam on board. :This day also it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these
days were entirely spent in making several voyages to
get all I could out of the ship, which I brought on
shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. There was much
rain also in these days, though with some intervals of
fair weather, but it seems that this Was the rainy
season. '

October 20. I upset my raft, and all the goods I
had upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when
the tide was out.

October 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke
in pieces, the Wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and
that only at low water. I spent this day in covering
and securing the goods which I had saved, that the
rain might not spoil them.

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day, to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly
concerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
either from wild beasts or men. Toward night I fixed
upon a proper place under a rock, and marked out a
semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to
strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification made of
double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard.

The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island
with my gun to look for some food and discover the
country, when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed
me home. The kid I afterwards killed, also, because it
would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
upon.

November 2. I set up all my chests and boards
and the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with
them formed a fence round me, a little within the place
I had marked out for my fortification. ,

November 3. I went out with my gun and killed
two fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In
the afternoon I went to work to make a table.

November 4. This morning I began to order my
times of work, of going out with my gun, time of
sleep, and time of diversion. Every morning I walked
out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not
rain, then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock, then ate what I had to live on. From twelve
to two I lay downrto Sleep, the weather being excessive
hot, and in the evening I Worked again. The working
part of this day, and of the next, were wholly employed
in making my table, for I was yet but a very poor
workman.

November 5. This day I went abroad with my gun
and my dog, and killed a wild cat. . Her skin was
pretty soft,'but her flesh was good for nothing. Every
creature I killed I took off the skins and preserved them.
Coming back by the seashore I saw many sorts of
sea fowls, which I did not know. I was surprised and
almost frightened when I saw two or three seals. While
I was gazing, not well knowing what they were, they
slipped into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

November 6. After my morning walk I went to
work with my table again, and finished it, though not
' to my liking; nor was it long before I learned to mend it.

November 7. Now it began to be settled .fair
weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and a part of the
12th (for the 11th was Sunday), I took wholly to
make a chair. With much ado Ibrought it to a toler-
able shape, but never to please me, and even in the mak-
ing I pulled it in pieces several times. N ote.--I soon
neglected my keeping Sundays, for omitting my mark
for them on my post, I forgot which was which. '

November 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
me exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was ac-
companied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully for fear of my powder. As
soon as it Was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.

November 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds at most, of powder.
Putting the powder in them, I stowed it in places as
secure and remote from one another as possible. On
one of these three days I killed a large bird that was
good to eat, but I know not what to call it. .

November 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock, to make room for my farther con-
veniency. N ate--Three things I wanted exceeding for
this work, namely, a pickax, a shovel, and a wheel-
barrow or basket, so I stopped my work and began to
consider how to supply that want and make me some
tools. As for a pickax, I made use of the iron crowbars,
which were proper enough, though heavy; but the next
thing was a shovel or spade. This was so absolutely
necessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually
without it, but what kind of one to make I knew not.

November 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in
the Brazils they call the Iron Tree, for its exceeding
hardness. Of this, with great labor and almost spoil-
ing my ax, I cut a piece and brought it home with diffi-
culty enough, for it was exceedingly heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood kept me a long
while upon this tool, but I worked it effectually little
by little into the form 'of a shovel or spade. The handle
was shaped exactly like ours in England, only that the
broad part had no iron shod upon it at bottom.
It would not last me long, but it served well enough for
the uses which I had occasion to put it to. Never was
a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long a
making.

I was not yet satisfied, for I wanted a basket or a
wheelbarrow. A basket I could not make by any
. means, for I had no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker ware, or at least I had not found
any. As for a wheelbarrow, I fancied that I could make
all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither '
did I know how to go about it. Besides, I had no
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle
or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it up. For car-
rying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I
made a thing like a hod which the laborers carry mor-
tar in, when they serve the brick] ayers.

This was not so difficult to me as making the shovel,
and yet this and the shovel and the attempt which I
made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me no less
than four days, always excepting my morning walk
with my gun. I seldom failed to take that and very
seldom failed to bring home something to eat.

November 23. My other work had stood still be-
cause of my making these tools, and when they were
finished I went on. Working every day, as my strength
and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in
widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold
my goods comfortably.

N ote.--During all this time I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a
warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining room, and
a cellar. As for my lodging, I kept to the tent, except
that sometimes. in the wet season of the year, it
rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry, which
caused me afterwards to cover all my place within my
pale with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning against
the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees like a thatch

December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when suddenly (it seems that I had
made it too'large) a great quantity of earth fell down
from the top and one side. I was frightened and not
without reason, for if I had been under it, I should
never have wanted a grave-digger. After this disaster
I had a great deal of work to do over again, for I had
the ,loose earth to carry out, and, which was of more
importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I
might be sure no more would come down.

December 11. Today I went to work at it, accord-
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of boards across over each
post. This I finished the next day, and setting more
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured, and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to divide off my house.

December 17. Mom this day to the twentieth I
placed shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to
hang everything up that could be hung up, and now I
began to be in some order within doors.

December 20. Now I carried everything into the
cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up some
pieces of boards, like a dresser, to put my food upon.
Also, I made another table.

December 24. Much rain all night and all day; no
stirring out.

December 25. Rain all day. I .

December 26. N 0 rain, the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.

December 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed an-
other, so that I caught it, and led it home on a string.
When I had it home, I bound and splintered up its
leg, which was broken. N eta--I took such care of it
that it lived, and the leg grew well and as strong as
ever, but I had nursed it so long it grew tame, and fed
upon the little green at my door, and would not go
away. This was the first time that I entertained a
thought of breeding some tame creatures, that I might
have food when my powder and shot were all spent.

December 28, 29, 30. Great heat and no breeze,
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the

. evening for food. This time I spent in putting all my
things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the
day. This evening, I 'went farther into the valley,
which lay toward the center of the island, and found
there plenty of goats, though they were exceedingly
shy and hard to come at. However, I resolved to bring
my dog to try to hunt them down. '

January 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my deg, and set him upon the goats, but I was
mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog, and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not go near
them.

January 3. I began my fence or wall, and since I
was still afraid of being attacked by somebody, I re-
solved to make it very thick and strong.

N ote.--This wall, being described before, I purposely
omit what was said in the Journal. It is sufficient to
observe that I was no less time than from the 3d of
January to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and
perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about
twenty-four yards in length, being a half circle from
one place in the rock to another place about eight
yards from it. The door of the cave was in the center
behind it.

p All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together, but
I thought I should never be perfectly secure until this
wall was finished. It is scarcely credible what inexu
pressible labor everything was done with, especially
the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them
into the ground, for I made them much bigger than I
needed to have done.

When this wall was finished and the outside double
fence with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there,
they would not See anything like a dwelling. It was
very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter upon a
very remarkable occasion.

During this time I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain permitted me, and
made frequent discoveries in these walks of something
or other to my advantage. One time I found a kind-
of wild pigeon, who built not as wood pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks. Taking some young ones, I endeavored to tame
them and did so, but when they grew older they flew
away. This may have been because I did not feed
them, for I had nothing to give them. However, I
frequently found their nests and got their young ones,
which were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting 1n many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed, in
some cases, it was. For instance, I could never make
a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as I
observed before, but I could never make one by copy-
ing them, though I spent many weeks about it. I
could neither put in the heads, or joint the staves so
true to one another as to make them hold water, so
I gave that up, also.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for a candle.
As soon as it was dark, which was generally by seven
o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the
lump of beeswax with which I made candles in my
African adventure, but I had none of that now. The
only remedy I had was that when I had killed a goat
I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay,
which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of
some oakum, I made a lamp. This gave me light,
though not a clear, steady light like a candle. In the
middle of all my labors it happened that. as I rum-
maged among my things, I found a little bag, which, as
I hinted, before, had been filled with grain for the feed--
ing of poultry. What little grain had remained in the

"bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust. I wanted the bag for
some other use, so I shook the husks of grain out of it
on one side of my fortification under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking nonotice
of anything, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown anything there. About a month after,
or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of something
green shooting out of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen. I was surprised
and perfectly astonished when, after a little longer
time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which
were perfect green barley of the same kind as our Eng-
lish barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion. I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all;
indeed, I had very few notions of religion 1n my head,
and had not entertained any sense of anything that
had befallen me, otherwise, than as a chance, or, as we
lightly say, what pleases God. I had not so much as
inquired into the end of Providence in these things, or
His order in governing events in the world, but after I
saw barley grow there, in a climate which I knew was
not proper for grain, and especially when I did not
know how it came there, it startled me strangely.
I began to think that God had miraculously caused
this grain to grow Without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on
that wild, miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to think myself fortunate
that such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my
account. This was the more strange to me, because I
saw near it, all along by the side of the rock, some other
straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and
which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa,
when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure_productions of
Providence for my support, but not doubting but that
there was more in the place, I went all over that part
AFTER THE EARTHQUAKE

HE very next day after this wall was finished, I

almost had all my labor overthrown at once,

and myself killed. As I was busy inside the wall,
behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I
was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising
thing indeed. Suddenly the earth came crumbling
down from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of
the hill, over my head, and two of the posts I had set
up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was
heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was
really the cause, only thinking that the top of my
cave was falling in, as some of it had done before.
For fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my
ladder, and not thinking myself safe there either, I got
over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which I
expected might roll down upon me. I was no sooner
stepped down upon the ground than I plainly saw that
it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground I stood on
shook three times at about eight minutes' distance,
with three such' shocks as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have
stood on the earth. A great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me next the

sea, fell down with a terrible noise such as I never
103
had heard before in all my life. I perceived also that the
very sea was put into violent motion by it, and I be-
lieve that the shocks were stronger under the water
than on the island. '

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or talked with anyone that had, that I
was like one dead or stupefied. The motion of the
earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed
at sea. But the noise of the falling of the rock awakened
me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupefied con-
dition I was in, filled me with horror, and I thought of .
nothing then but the hill falling upon my tent, and all
my household goods, and buryng all at once. This
sank my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take courage, and yet I had not
heart enough to get over my wall again, for fear of being
buried alive. I sat still upon the ground, greatly cast
down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All
this while I had not the least serious religious thought,
nothing but the common, "Lord, have mercy upon
me," and when it was over, that went away, too.

While I sat thus, I saw that the sky was growing
overcast and cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after
that the wind rose little by little, so that in less than
half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. The
sea was suddenly covered over with foam and froth, the
shore washed with huge waves, the trees torn up by

the roots.. 1;; short, it was a terrible storm. This
lasted about three hours, and then began to abate, I

and in two hours more it was stark calm, and began
to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
terrified and dejected. Suddenly it came into my
thoughts that these winds and the rain being the con-
sequences of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might venture into my cave again.
With this thought my spirits began to revive, and the
rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and sat
down in my tent, but the rain was so violent, that my
tent was ready to be beaten down with it. I was forced
to go into my cave, though I was very much afraid
and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.

This violent rain forced me to a new work, to cut a
hole through my new fortification like a sink to let
water go out, which otherwise would have filled my
cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and had
found that no more shocks of the earthquake followed,
I began to be more composed. And now, to support
my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went
to my little store, and took a small sup of rum, which
however I did then, and always, very sparingly, know-
ing that I could have no more when that was gone.

It continued raining all that night and a great
part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad,
but my mind was more composed and I began to think
what I had best do. I concluded that if the island was
subject to these earthquakes, there would be no living
for me in a cave, but I must consider building some
little but in an open place. I could surround it gwith a

wall as I had done here, and so make myself secure
from wild beasts or men. I was convinced that if I
stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or
other, be buried alive. '

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it stood. It was just under the
hanging precipice of the hill, which, if it should be
shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I
spent the next two days, the 19th and 20th of April, in
planning where and how to remove my habitation.

I was so afraid of being swallowed alive that I
never slept in quiet, yet my terror at lying out in the
open without a fence was almost equal to it. When I
looked about and saw how everything was put in order,
how pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from
danger, it made me very loath to remove.

In the meantime, it occurred to me that it would
require a great deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must be contented to run the risk where I was, till I
had formed a camp for myself, and had secured it so
that I could move to it. With this resolution I com-
posed myself for a time, and resolved that I would go
to work with all speed to build a wall with piles and
cables, in a circle as before, and set my tent up in it
when it was finished, but that I would venture to stay
where [I was till it was finished and fit to move to.
This was the 21st.
April 22. The next morning I began to consider
means to put this resolve into execution, but I was at a
great loss about my tools. I had three large axes and
an abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets
for traffic with the Indians), but with much chopping
and cutting knotty, hard wood, they were all full of
notches and dull, and though I had a grindstone, I
could not turn it and grind my tools, too. This Cost
me as much thought as a statesman would have be-
stowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon
the life and death of a man. At length I contrived a
wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I
might have both my hands at liberty. I had never
seen any such thing in England, or at least not to take
notice how it was done, though since I have observed
it is very common there. This machine cost me a full
week's work to bring it to perfection.

' April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.

April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been
low a great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced
myself to one biscuit cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.

Mayl. In the morning, when I looked toward the
seaside, the tide being low, I saw something bigger than
ordinary lying on the shore. It looked like a cask.
When I came to it, I found a small barrel and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which had been
driven on shore by the recent hurricane. When I
looked toward the wreck itself, I thought it seemed
to lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel which was driven on shore, and
soon found that it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it
had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as
a stone. However, I rolled it farther on shore for the
present, and went on upon the sands as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
changed. The forecastle, which before lay buried in
sand, was heaved up, at least six feet. The stern, which
had been broken to pieCes and parted from the rest
by the force of the sea soon after I had stopped rum-
maging her, was tossed up, as it were, and cast on one
side. The sand was thrown so high on that side
next her stern, that whereas there was a great place
of water before, so that I could not come Within a quarter
of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now
walk quite up to her when the tide was out. I was sur-
prised with this at first, but soon concluded that it must
have been done by the earthquake. By this violence the
ship Was more broken open than formerly, and many
' things came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened,
and which the winds and the water rolled by degrees
to the land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the plan of
moving my dwelling. I busied myself mightily, that
day especially, in searching whether I could make any
way into the ship, but I found that nothing was to be
expected of that kind, because all the inside of the ship
was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned
not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull every~
thing to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that
everything I could get from her would be of some use or
other to me.

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held some of the upper
part or quarter-deck together. When I had cut it
through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could
from the side which lay highest, but the tide came in,
and I was obliged to'give up for that time.'

May 4. I went fishing, but caught not one fish
that I dared eat. I was weary of my sport and was just
goingvto stop, when I caught a young dolphin. I had
made a long line of some rope yarn, but I had no hooks,

yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared 2 '

to eat. I dried them in the sun, and ate them dry.

May 5. Worked on the wreck, out another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from
the decks, which I tied together, and floated to shore
when the tide was in.

May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron work; worked
very hard, and came home very tired, and had thoughts
of giving it up.

May 7. Went to the wreck again, intending not
to work, but found that the weight of the wreck had
broken itself down. The beams were cut, so that several
pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose. The inside of
the hold lay so open that I could see into it, but it was
almost full of water and sand.

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crowbar to wrench up the deck, which now lay quite
clear of the water or sand. I wrenched open two planks,
and brought them to shore, also with the tide. I left
the iron crowbar in the wreck for next day.

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crowbar
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
' casks, and loosened them with the crowbar, but could
not break them up. I felt also the roll of English lead,
and could stir it, but it was too heavy to remove.

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the
wreck, and got a great many pieces of timber and
boards, or plank, and two or three hundredweight of
iron. .

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try to cut a
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one
hatchet, and driving it with the other, but since it
lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not

make any blow to drive the hatchet.
May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
' wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water,
but I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for
food that the tide prevented my going to the wreck
that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, nearly two miles away. I
resolved to see what they were, and found that it was
a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring
away.
. May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labor I loosened some things
so much with the crowbar, that the first blowing tide
several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's
chests. The wind was blowing from the shore, however,
and nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but
the salt water and the sand had spoiled it.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, except the time necessary to get food, which I al-
ways appointed, during this part of my employment, to
be when the tide was up, that I might be ready when
it ebbed out. By this time I had gotten timber and
plank and iron work enough to have built a good
boat, if I had known how. Also, I secured at several
times, and in several pieces, almost a hundredweight
of the sheet lead.

June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large'
tortoise or turtle. This was the first I had seen, which
it seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity, for had I happened to be on the other
side of the island I might have had hundreds of them
every day. I found them afterwards and perhaps
paid dearly enough for them.

June 17. I spent the day cooking the turtle. I
found in her threescore eggs. Her flesh was to me at .
that time the most savory and pleasant that ever I
tasted in my life, for I had had no flesh but that of
goats and fowls since I had landed in this horrid place.

June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time that the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold. _

June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my
head, and feverish.

June 21. Very ill, frightened almost to death at
my sad condition, to be sick and no help. Prayed to
God for the first time since the storm off Hull, but
scarcely knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being
all confused.

June 22. A little better, but with dreadful fears of
sickness.

' June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.

June 24. _ Much better.

June 25. A very violent ague; the fit held me seven
hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better. Having no food to eat, I took my
gun, but found myself very weak. However, I killed a
she-goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and
broiled some of it, and ate. I would have stewed it and
made some broth, but I had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to
perish for thirst, but so weak I had not strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. ' I
prayed to God again, but was light-headed. When I
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to
say. I lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me; Lord, pity
me; Lord, have mercy upon me." I suppose I did
nothing else for two or three hours, till, the fit wearing
off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night.
When I waked I found myself much refreshed, but
weak and exceedingly thirsty. However, as I had no
water in my whole place I was forced to lie till morning,
and went tosleep again. In this second sleep I had this
terrible dream. '

I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend
from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and
alight upon the ground. He was all over as bright as a
flame, so that I could but just bear to look toward him.
His countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, im-
possible for words to describe. When hestepped upon
the ground with his feet I thought that the earth trem-
bled just as it had done before in the earthquake, and
all the air looked to my apprehension as if it had been
filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forward toward me, with a long spear or Weapon
in his hand to kill me. When he came to a rising ground,
at some distance, he spoke to me in a voice so terrible
that it is impossible to express the terror of it. All that
I can say I understood was this:

"Seeing all these things have not brought thee to
repentance, now thou shalt die." At these words I
thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.

No one that shall ever read tms account will ex-
pect that I should be able to describe the horrors of my
soul at this terrible vision; nor is it any more possible
to describe the impression that remained upon my
mind when I awakened. and found that it was but a
dream.

June 28. I was somewhat refreshed with the sleep
I had had, and the fit had entirely passed off, so I got
up. I thought that the ague would return again next
day, and that now was my time to get something to
refresh and support myself when I should be ill. The
first thing I did was to fill a large, square case bottle
with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my
- bed. Then I got a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled

' it on the coals, but could eat very little. I walked
about, but was very weak, and withal, very sad and
heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condi-
tion, dreading the return of my distemper the next
. day. At night I made my supper of three of the turtle's
eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call
it, in the shell. This was the first bit of meat I had
should have been, for I had a little spell of the cold
fit, but it was not much.

July 3. I did not have another fit, though I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I
was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran ex-
ceedingly upon the Scripture, "I will deliver thee."
The impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my
mind, to bar my ever expecting it, but as I was dis-
couraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred to
my mind that I poured so much on my deliverance
from the main affliction, that I disregarded the de-
liverance I had received. I was, as it were, made to "
ask myself such questions as these:

"Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully, too,
from sickness and from the most distressed condition
that could be that was so frightful to me? What
notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part? God
' had delivered me, but I had not glorified Him, that is
to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as a
deliverance. How could I expect greater deliverance?"

This touched my heart very much, and immediately
I knelt down and gave God thanks, aloud, for my re-
covery from my sickness.

. July 4. In the morning I took the Bible and, be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile every
morning and every night, not tying myself to the num-
ber of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should en-

gage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
9
work that I found my heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, "Call on me, and I will deliver thee," in a dif-
ferent sense from what I had ever done before. Then
I had no notion of anything being called. deliverance,
but my being delivered from the captivity I was in,
for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the
island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst
sense in the world. Now I learned to understand the
words in another sense. I looked back upon my past
life with such horror, and my sins appeared so dread-
ful, that my soul sought nothing of God but deliver-
ance from the load of guilt that bore down all my
comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing.
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or
think of it. It was all of no consideration in compari-
son with this. And I add this part here, to hint to
whomever shall read it, that whenever they come to a
true sense of things, they will find deliverance from sin
a much greater blessing than deliverance from affliction.

But, leaving this part, I return to my Journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier as
to my mind. My thoughts were directed by a constant
reading of the Scripture and praying to God to things
of a higher nature. I had a great deal of comfort within,
which till now I knew nothing of. Also, as my health
and strength returned, I bestirred myself to supply
everything that I wanted, and make my way of living
as regular as I could. .'

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a
little at a time, as a man does who is gathering up his
strength after a fit of sickness, for it is hardly to be
imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I was
reduced.

I learned from it this, in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most injurious
thing to my health that could be, especially in those
rains which came attended with storms and hurricanes
of wind. As the rain which came in the dry season was
always most accompanied with such storms, so I found
this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten
months. All possibility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me, and I
firmly believed that no human person had ever set
foot upon that place.
MAKING A COUNTRY HOME

IN CE I had now made my dwelling perfectly se-

S cure, as I thought, I had a great desire to make a

more complete investigation of the island, and

to see what other productions I might find, which I
yet knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself; I went up
the creek first where, as I have said, I brought my
rafts on shore. I found, after I came about two miles
up, that the tide did not flow any higher, and that it
was no more than a little brook of running water,
very fresh and good. This was the dry season, and there
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not
enough to run in any stream, so it could be perceived.

On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant
meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass. On
the rising parts of them next to the higher grounds,
where the water, as it might be supposed, never over-
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacCo, green, and
growing to a great and very strong stalk. There were
many other plants which I had no notion of or under-
standing about. They might perhaps have had vir-
tues of their own, but I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians
120
in all that climate make their bread of, but I could not
find any. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them. I saw several sugar canes,
but Wild, and, for'want of cultivation, imperfect. I
contented myself with these discoveries for this time,
and came back musing with myself what course I
might take to know the virtue and goodness of any of
the fruits or plants which I should discover, but I
could come to no conclusion. I had made so little ob-
servation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little
of the plants of the field, at least very little that might
serve me to any purpose now in my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again, and, after going something farther, I found that
the brook and the meadows began to cease, and the
country became more woody. In this part I found
different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon
the ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees. The vines had spread indeed over the trees, and
the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime,
very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery,
and I was exceedingly glad of them, but I was afraid
to eat many of them. I found an excellent use for these
grapes, however. That was to cure or dry them in the
sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were,
as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes
might be had.

I spent all that evening there, and did not go back
to my dwelling, which, by the way, was the first night,
as I might say, that I had slept away from home. In
the night I followed 'my first contrivance, and got up
into a tree, where I slept well. The next morning I
proceeded upon my discovery, traveling nearly four
miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley,
keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south
and north side of me.

At the end of this walk I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west. A little .
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of
the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east.
The country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing,
everything being in a constant verdure or flourishing
of spring, that it looked like a planted garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure
(though mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to think
that this was all my own, that I was king and lord of
all this country indefeasibly, and had a right of pos-
session. If I could convey it, -I might have it in inherit-
ance, as completely as any lord of a manor in England.
. I saw here abundance of coconut trees, orange and
lemon and citron trees, but all wild, and few bearing
any fruit; at least not then. However, the green limes
that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome, and I mixed their juice afterwards with
water, which made it cool and refreshing.

I found now that I had fruit. enough to gather and
carry home. I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as of limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the
wet season, which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this I gathered a heap of grapes in
one place, and a smaller heap in another place, and a
great parcel of limes and lemons in another place.
Taking a few of each with me, I traveled homeward,
and resolved to come again and bring a bag or sack, 'or
what Icould make, to carry the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey,
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave),
but before I got- thither the grapes were spoiled. The
richness of the fruit and the weight of the juice had
broken them and bruised them, and they were good
. for little or nothing. As to the limes, they were good,
but I could bring but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made two small bags to bring home my harvest.
But I was surprised when, coming to my heap of grapes,
which were so rich and fine when I gathered them, I
found them all spread abroad, trod to pieces, and
dragged about, some here, some there, and many eaten
and devoured. By this I concluded that there were
some wild creatures thereabouts which had done this,
but what they were I knew not.

However, as I found that there was no laying them
upon heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack,
for one way they would be destroyed, and the other
way they would be crushed with their own weight, I
took another course. i I gathered a large quantity'of
the grapes and hung them'upon the outer branches of
the trees, that they'might cure and dry in the sun,
As for the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as
I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I thought
with great pleasure of the fruitfulness of that valley,
and the pleasantness of the situation, the security
from storms on that side of the water, and the wood,
and I concluded that I had selected what was by far
the worst part of the country for my abode. Upon
the whole, I began to consider moving my dwelling,
and looking out for a place as safe as where I now was
situated, if possible, in that pleasant and fruitful part
of the island.

This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the
place tempting me. However, when I came to a nearer
view of it, I'considered that I was now by the seaside,
where it was at least possible that something might
happen to my advantage, and that the same ill fate
- that brought me hither, might bring some other un-
happy wretches to the same place. Though it was
scarcely probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet to inclose myself among the hills and woods,
in the center of the island, was to anticipate my bond~
age, and to render such an affair not only improbable,
but impossible. Therefore, I decided that I ought not
by any means to move.
However, I was so enamored of this place, that I
spent much of my time there for the whole remaining
part of the month of July, and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved as I said above, not to move, vet
- I built a kind of little bower, and surrounded it at a
distance with a strong fence, a double hedge, as high
as I could reach, well staked and filled between with
brushwood. Here I lay very secure, sometimes two or
three nights together, always going over it with a
ladder, as before. I fancied that now I had my
country house, and my seacoast house. This work
took me up to the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and begun to
enjoy my labor, when the rains came on, and made me
stick close to my first dwelling. Though at my country
home I had made a tent like the other, with a piece of
sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter
of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me
to retreat into when the rains were heavy.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and begun to enjoy myself. The
3d of August I found that the grapes I had hung up

were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent sun--dried
raisins. I began to take them down from the trees, and
it was very fortunate that I did so, for the rains which
followed would have spoiled them, and I should have
lost the best part of my winter food. I had more than
two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I
taken them all down and carried most of them home to
my cave, than it began to rain. From then ,' which was
the 14th of August,.it rained more or less every day
till the middle of October, sometimes so violently that
I could not stir out of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the loss
of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I
thought, had died, and I heard no more tidings of
her, till, to my astonishment, she came home about
the end of August, with three kittens. This was the
more strange to me, because though I had killed a
wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, I thought it was a
quite different kind from our European cats, yet the
young cats were the same kind of house breed as the
old one. _

From the 14th of August to the 26th the rain was
incessant, so that I could not stir, and was now very
careful not to be much wet. In this confinement I
began to be in need of food, but venturing out twice, I
one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the
26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat
to me. My food was regulated. thus: I ate a bunch of
raisins for my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or of
the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for to my great mis-
fortune I had no vessel to boil or stew anything in),
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.

During this confinement in my cover, by the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave. By degrees, I worked it on toward one side, till
I came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or
way out, which came beyond my fence or wall. So I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly
easy at lying so open, for as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect inclosure, whereas now I
thought I lay exposed. Yet I could not perceive that
there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature
that I had seen upon the island being a goat.

September 30. I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I counted up the notches
on my post, and found that I had been on shore three
hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a
solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious exercise,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most se-
rious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowl-
edging his righteous judgments upon me, and praying
to him to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ.
I had not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours,
even to the going down of the sun, and I then ate a
biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, fin--
ishing the day as I began it.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath Day, for
as at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I
had after some time omitted to distinguish the weeks,
by making a longer notch than ordinary for the Sab-
bath Day, and so did not really know what any of
the days were. Now, having counted up the days, I
found that I had been there a year, so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh day fora Sabbath,
though I found at the end of my/account I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning.

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so
I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life, without continuing a daily memorandum of other
things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so
as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought all

' my experience before I had it, and this that I am going
to relate was one of the most discouraging experiments
that I made. I have mentioned that I had saved the
few ears of barley and rice which I had so surprisingly
found spring up, as I thought, of themselves. I be-
lieve that there were about thirty stalks of rice and
about twenty of barley. I thought it a proper time
to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern
position.

Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground, as well as

' I could, with my wooden spade, and dividing it into
two parts, I sowed my grain, but as I was sowing, it
casually occurred to my thought, that I would not sow
.it all at first, because I did not know when was the
proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the
seeds, leaving about a handful of each. It was a great
comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain
of that which I sowed this time came to anything.
The dry months followed, and since the earth had no
rain after the seed was sown, the seed had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all, till the
wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it
had been newly sown.

Finding that my first seed did not grow, which I
easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a
moister piece of ground to make another trial in. I
dug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and
sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before
the vernal equinox. This had the rainy months of
March and April to water it and sprang up very
flourishingly and yielded a very good crop. However,
since I had only part of the seed left, and did not dare
to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at
last, my whole crop not amounting to more than half
a peek of each kind.

But by this experience I was made master of my
business, and knew exactly when the proper season
was to sow, and that I might expect two seedtimes
and two harvests every year

While this grain was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as
the rains were over and the weather began to settle,
which was about the month of November, I made a
visit up the country to my bower. I had not been
there for some months, but I found all things just as
I had left them. The circle or double hedge that I had
made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes
which I had cut off some trees that grew thereabouts
had budded and grown long branches, much as a .wil-
low tree usually puts out shoots the first year after it
is cut back. I could not tell what tree to call it that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet
very well pleased, to see 'the young trees grow. I
pruned them, and led them to grow as much alike as
I could, and it is scarcely credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years. Though the
hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in di-
ameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them,
soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, suffi-
cient to lodge under all the diy season.

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me a hedge like this in a semicircle round the wall
of my first dwelling, which I did. Placing the trees
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards' dis-
tance from my first fence, they grew presently, and were
at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards
served for a defense also, as I shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as
in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry
seasons, which were generally thus:

Half February, March, half April--Rainy, the sun
being then on or near the equinox. -

Half April, May, June, July, half August--Dry,
the sun being then to the north of the line.

Half August, September, half October--Rainy, the
sun then being come back. .
Half October, November, December, January, half
February--Dry, the sun being then to the south of
the line.

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter,
as the winds happened to blow, but this was the gen-
eral observation I made. After I had found, by experi-
ence, the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I
took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand,
that I might not be obliged to go out, and I sat within
doors as much as possible during the wet months.

In this time I found much employment (and very
suitable also to the time), for I found great occasion
for many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with, 'but by hard labor and constant application.
Particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a
basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now that when I
was a boy I used to take great delight in standing at a
basket maker's in the town where my father lived, to
see them make their wicker ware. Being, as boys usu-
ally are, very anxious to help and a great observer of
the way they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by this means so full knowledge
of the methods of it that I wanted nothing but the
materials. When it came into my mind that the
twigs of that tree from which I had cut my stakes that
grew, might possibly be as tough as the salloWs and
willows and osiers in England, I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country
house, as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller
tWigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could
desire. Therefore, I came the next time prepared with
a hatchet to cut down a quantity which I soon found,
for there was a great plenty of them. These I set up
to dry within my circle or hedges, and when they were
fit for use, I carried them to my cave. Here, during
thelnext season, I employed myself in making (as well
as I could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth,
or to carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion.
A Though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I
made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose.
After that I took care never to be without them, and
as my wicker ware decayed, I made more. I made
strong, deep baskets to place my grain in, instead of
sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if pos-
sible, how to supply two wants. I' had no vessels to
hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles,
some of the common size, and others, which were
case bottles, square, for the holding of water and
spirits. I had not so much as a pot to boil anything
in, except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship,
and which was too big for such uses as I desired for it,
namely, to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by it-
self. The second thing I wanted was a tobacco pipe,
but it was impossible for me to make one. However,
I found a contrivance for that, too, at last.

I employed myself in planting my second rows of
' stakes or piles and in doing this wicker work all the
summer, or dry season. Then another business took
up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.
TEN YEARS OF WORK

,MENTIONED before that I had a great mind to
see the whole island, and that I had traveled up
the brook and so on to where I had built my bower,

and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite
across to the seashore on that side, so, taking my gun
and my hatchet and my dog and a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes
and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store,
I began my journey. When I had passed the vale
where my bower stood, I came within View of the sea,
to the west. It was a very clear day, and I could see
land, though whether it was an island or a continent
I could not tell. It lay very high, extending from the
west to the W. S. W. at a very great distance. By
my guess it could not be less than fifteen or twenty
leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might

be,' otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America, and, as I concluded by all my observations,
'must be near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was
all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed,
I had been in a worse condition than I was now. There-

fore, I acquiesced in the dispositions of Providence,
. 134
which I began now to own, and to believe, ordered every-
thing for the best. I say I quieted my mind with this,
and stopped afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of

being there. '

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel
pass or repass. If it was not, then it was the savage
coast between the Spanish country and Brazil, which
is inhabited by the worst of savages, for they are
cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder
and devour all the human bodies that fall into their
hands. .

With these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found that side of the island where I now
was much pleasanter than mine, the open fields sweet,
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine
woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would
I have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be
tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some
pains taken, catch a young parrot, for I knocked him
down with a stick, and, having revived him, I brought
him home, but it was some years before I could make
him speak. However, at last I taught him to call me
by my name, very familiarly.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to
be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all other
kinds I had met with, nor could I bring myself to eat
them, for I had no want of food, and of that which was
very good; especially these three sorts, goats, pigeons,
and turtle or tortoise. I had great cause for thankful-
ness that I was not driven to any extremities for food,
but had plenty, even to dainties.

I never traveled in this journey more than two
miles outright in a day, or thereabouts, but I took so
many turns and returns, to see what discoveries I
could make, that I came weary enough to the place
where I resolved to spend the night. Then either I
reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a
row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree or another, so that no wild creature could
come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island, for here indeed the shore was covered with
innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other side I had
found but three in a year and a half. Here was also
an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, some of
which I had not seen before, and many of them very
good meat, but such as I knew not the names of, ex-
cept those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but I was
very sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had
more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could
better feed on. Though there were many more goats
here than on the other side of the island, yet it was
with much more difficulty that I could come near
them, the country being flat and even, so that they
' saw me much sooner than when I was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country was much pleas-
anter than mine, but yet I had not the least inclination
to move, for, as I was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me. I seemed all the while I was here to be,
as it were, upon a journey and from home. However,
I traveled along the shore of the sea toward the east,
I suppose about twelve miles, and then, setting up a
great pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded that
I would go home again. The next journey I planned
to take on the other side of the island, east from my
dwelling, and so round, till I came to my'post again,
of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in
my view, that I could not miss finding my first dwell-
ing by viewing the country, but I found myself mis-
taken. When I had gone about two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valley, so
surrounded with hills, and those hills so covered with
woods, that I could not see which was my way by
any direction but that of the sun.

It happened that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley, and, not
being able to see the sun, I wandered about very un-
comfortably, and at last was obliged to find out the
seaside, look for my post, and come back the same way
I went. Then by easy journeys I turned homeward,
the weather being exceedingly hot, and my gun, am-
munition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid and
seized upon it. I, running to take hold of it, caught it,
and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind
to bring it home, if I could, for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and
so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply me
when my powder and shot should be spent.

I made a collar for this little creature, and with a
string which I made of some rope-yam, which I always
carried about me, I led him along, though with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower. There I inclosed
him, and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home,
from whence I had been absent more than a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch and lie down in my hammock
bed. This little wandering journey, without a settled
place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my
own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me, compared to that. It made, everything
about'me'so comfortable that I resolved that I would
never go a great way from it again, while it should be
my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey. -M0st of this time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my
Poll, who began now to be tame and to be mighty
well acquainted with me. Then I began to think ofPoll now began to be mighty well acquainted with me<<.- fink,"
the poor kid, which I had shut in within my little
circle, and resolved to go and bring it home, and give
it some food. Accordingly, I went and found it where
I had left it; for indeed it could not get out, but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs
of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw over to it. When I had fed it, I tied it as I
did before to lead it away, but it was so tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog. As I continually fed it, the
creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that
it became from that time one of my pets, also, and
would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
Solemn manner as before, it being the anniversary of
my landing on the island. I had now been there two
years, and had no more prospect of being delivered
than I had the first day I came there. I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of
the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition
was attended with, and without which it might have
been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and
hearty thanks that God had been pleased to show me
that it was possible for me to be happier in this solitary
condition than I should have been in society, and in all
the pleasures of the world.

Before, as I walked about, either hunting or view-
ing the country, the anguish of my soul at my con-
dition would suddenly break upon me and my very
heart would die within me, to think of the woods, the
mountains, the deserts I was in; how I was a prisoner,
locked up with the eternal bolts and bars of the ocean,
in an uninhabited wilderness, without hope of being
saved. In the midst of the greatest composures of
my mind, this would break upon me like a storm, and
make me wring my hands, and weep like a child.
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work,
and I would immediately sit downand sigh, and look
down upon the ground for an hour or two together.
This was still worse to me, for if I could burst into
tears, or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the
grief, having exhausted itself, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts. I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morning,
being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words,
"I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee!" Im-
mediately it seemed as if these words were to me. Why
else should they be directed in such a manner, just at
the moment when I was mourning over my condition,
as one forsaken of God and man?

"Well, then," said I, "if God does not forsake me, of
what ill consequence can it be, or what matters it,
though the world should all forsake me? 'On the other
hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the favor
and blessing of God, there'would be no comparison in

the loss."
I never opened the Bible or shut it, but my very
soul within me blessed God for directing my friend in
England, without any order of mine, to pack it among
my goods, and for assisting me afterwards to save it
out of the wreck of the ship.

In this frame of mind, I began my third year.
Though I have not given the reader the trouble of so
particular an account of my works this year as at the
first, yet in general it may be observed that I was very
seldom idle. I regularly divided my time according
to the several daily employments that were before me,
such as: first, my duty to God, and reading the Scrip-
tures, which I constantly set apart some time for,
thrice every day; second, the going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me about three
hours every morning when it did not rain; third, the
ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had
killed or caught for my supply. These took up a great
part of the day. Also, it is to be considered that in the
middle of the day, the intensity of the heat was too
great for me to stir out, so that about four hours in
the evening was all the time I could be supposed to
work in. Sometimes I changed my hours of hunting
and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labor I desire may
be added the exceeding laboriousness of my work and
the many hours which, for want of tools, want of help,
and want of skill, everything that I did took up out
of my time. For example, I was full two-and-forty
days making me a board for a long shelf, which I
wanted in my cave; whereas two sawyers, with their
tools and saw-pit, would have out six of them out of
the same tree in half a day. '

My case was this: It was to be a large tree which
was to be cut down, because my board was to be a
broad one. I was three days cutting down the tree
and two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it
to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips,
till it began to be light enough to move. Then I
turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to 'end, then turning that side down-
ward, I cut the other'side till I made the plank about
- three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Anyone
may judge the labor of my hands in such a piece of
work; but labor and patience carried me through that
and many other things.

I was now in the months of November and De-
cember, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great, for, as I observed, my seed of each was not above
the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one Whole
crop by sowing in the dry season. N ow my crop prom-
ised very well, when I found I was in danger of losing it
all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was
scarcely possible to keep from it. At first, the goats and
wild creatures which I called hares, tasting the sweet-
ness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it
came up, and ate it so close, that it could get no time
to shoot up into stalks.

'This I saw no remedy for but by making an in-
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great
deal of toil and the more, because it required a great
deal of speed, for the creatures were daily spoiling my
grain. However, as my arable land was but small,
suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced in about
three weeks' time. Shooting some of the creatures
in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, Where he would
stand and bark all night long. So, in a little time the
enemies forsook the place, and the grain grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts almost ruined me before, while
my grain was in the blade, so the birds came near
ruining me now, when it was in 'the ear. Going along
by the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls of I know not how many sorts,
which stood as it were watching till I should be gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always had
my gun with me). I had no sooner shot, but there
arose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at
all, from among the corn itself.

I foresaw that in a few days they would devour all
my hopes. I should be starved, and never be able to
raise a crop at all, and what to do I could not tell.
However, I resolved not to lose my grain if possible,
though I should watch it night and day. In the first
place, I went among it to see what damage was already
done, and found that they had spoiled a good deal of it,
but that, as it was yet too green for them, the loss was
not so great. The remainder was likely to be a good
crop, if it could be saved. _

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the
trees about me, as if they waited only till I was gone
away. The event proved it to be so, for as I walked off,
as if I were gone, I was no sooner out of their sight,
than they dropped down one by one into the grain
again. I was so provoked, that I could not have pa--
tience to stay till more came on, knowing that every
grain that they ate now was, as it might be said, a
peck loaf to me in the consequence. Coming up to
the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. This
was what I wished for, so I took them up, and served
them, as we serve notorious thieves in England, that
is, hanged them in chains, for a terror to others. It is
almost impossible to imaginetha't this should have such
an effect as it had, for the fowls would not only not
come at the grain, but in short they forsook all that
part of the island, and I could never see a bird near the
place as long as my scarecrows hung there. This I.was
very glad of, you may be sure, and about the latter
end of December, which was our second harvest of the
year, I reaped my grain.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut
it down, and all I could do (was to make one as well as
I could, out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my crop was but small, I had no great diffi-
culty in cutting it down. I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great
basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with
my hands. At the end of all my harvesting I found
that out of my half peek of seed, I had nearly two bushels
of rice, and more than two bushels and a half of barley,
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at
that time. '

However, this was a great encouragement to me,
and I foresaw that in time it would please God to supply
me with bread. Yet here I was perplexed again, for I
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my grain,
or indeed how to clean it and separate it; nor, if it was
made into meal, how to make bread of it, and if I found
out how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it.
These things being added to my desire of having a
good quantity for store, and of securing a constant
supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to
preserve, it all for seed against the next season, and in
the meantime to employ all my study and hours of
working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with grain and bread.

It'might be truly said that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful to consider, as I believe
few people do. the strange multitude of little things
necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dress-
ing, making, and finishing this one article, bread.
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making
a wooden spade, as I observed before, but this did my
work in but a wooden manner. Though it cost me a
great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it
not only wore out the sooner, but made my work the
harder, and made it be performed much worse. '
However, this I bore With, too, and was content to
work it out with patience, and bear with the badness
. of the performance. When the grain was sowed, I
had no harrow, but was forced to go over the ground
myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it,
to scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather than
rake or harrow it. _
When it was growing or grown, I have observed al-
ready how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it,
mow or reap it, cure or carry it home, thresh, separate
it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill
to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it
into bread, and an oven to bake it in. All these things
I' did without, as shall be observed; yet the grain was '
an inestimable comfort and advantage to me, too.
But all this, as I said, made everything laborious and
tedious to me, but that there was no help for, neither
was my time so much loss to me, because I had divided
it. A certain part of it was every day appointed to
these works, and as I resolved to use none of the grain
for bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the
next 'six months to apply myself, wholly by labor and
invention, to furnish myself with utensils proper for
performing all the operations necessary for making the
grain, when I had it, fit for my use.

But first I had to prepare more land, for I had now
seed enough to sow more than an acre of ground. Be-
fore I did this, I had a week's work at least to make a
spade, which, when it was done, was a very sorry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labor to
work with it. However, I went through that, and
sowed my seeds in two large, flat pieces of ground, as
near my house as I could find them to suit me, and
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which

. were all cut off that wood which I had set before, which
I knew would grow. In one year's time I knew I should
have a quick or living hedge, that would want but _
little repair. This work was not so little as to take me
up less than three months; because a great part of that
time was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.

Within doors, when it rained and I could not go
out I found employment, always observing, that all
the while I was at work, I diverted myself with talking
to my parrot, and teaching him to speak. I quickly
taught him to know his own name, "Poll," or at least,
to speak it out pretty loud. This was the first word I
ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my
own.

I had long studied, by some means or other, to
u '
make myself some earthern vessels, which indeed I
wanted sorely, but knew not where to get them. How-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt
that if I could find any clay, I might botch up some
such pot, as might, being dried by the sun, be hard
enough and strong enough to bear handling, and to
hold anything that was dry and required to be kept
so. As this was necessary in preparing meal, which
was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as
large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars to hold
what-should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to hear how many awkward ways I took to raise
this paste, what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made,
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the
clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;-
how many cracked by the overviolent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily; how many fell to pieces when
they were moved, as well before as after they were
dried. In a word, after having labored hard to find
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and
work it, I could not make more than two large, earthen,
ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in about two
months' labor.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two greater wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break, and,
as between the pot and the basket there was a littleEH16 ROBINSON CRUSOE

A
if

H

I

It now grew late, and so I left my lamp burning in the
cave, lest I should want anything in the night, and
went to bed. Before I lay down, I did what I never
had done in all my life; I knelt down and prayed to
God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon
him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me. After
my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I went to
bed, and fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till
noon the next day. Nay, to this hour, I am partly of
the opinion that I slept all the next day and night, and
till almost three the day after; for otherwise I knew
not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning in the
days of the week, as it appeared some years after I had
done. If I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the
line, I should have lost more than one day, but certainly
I lost a day in my account, and never knew how.

' "'At any rate, when I waked I found myself exceed-
ingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful.
When I got up I was stronger than I was the day be-
fore, and my stomach better, for I was hungry. In
short, I had no fit the next day, but continued much
better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand
goose, and brought them home, but was not very eager
to eat them, so I ate some more of the turtle's eggs,
which were very good. However, I was not so well the
next day, which was the first of July, as I hoped l
ever asked God's blessing on, as I could remember, in
my whole life. '

After I had eaten I tried to walk, but I found my-
.self so weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I

never went out without that). I went but a little way, /

and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the _
sea, which was very calm and smooth

After a time I arose, feeling very pensive and sad, l
and walked back to my retreat. I went up over my '
wall, as if I had been going to bed, but my thoughts
were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep,
so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. I took up the Bible, and opened it
casually. The first words that occurred to me were
these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."

The words were very apt to my case, and made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not so much as they did afterwards.
As for being delivered, .the word had no sound, as I
may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible
in my apprehension of things, that I began to say as
the children of Israel did when they were promised
flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilderness?"
So I began to say, "Can God himself deliver me from
this place?" And as'it was not for many years that
any hope appeared, this occurred very often to my
thoughts. However, the words made a very great im-
pression upon me, and I mused upon them very often.

\
1
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care. Their use was the same, to make me bread, or
rather food, for I found ways to cook it up without bak-
ing, though I did that also after some time. But to
return to my Journal.

I worked extremely hard these three or four months
to get my wall done. The 14th of April I closed it up,
contriving to go into it not by a door, but over the wall
by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside
of my dwelling ......

April' 16;- I finished. the ladder, so I went up with
I _.the'= ladder to the top, arid' then pulled it up after me,

i'land let it down on ,the insidiszi; This was a complete

'inclosure for me'.' Wrthin I held room enough, and

nothing could come at me from Without, unless it
could first mount my wall.
of the island, where I had been before, peeping in every
corner and under every rock to see more of it, but I
could not find any. 'At last it occurred to my thought
that I had shaken a bag of grain out in that place, and
then the wonder began to cease. And I must confess,
my religiousZthankfulness to God's providence began to
abate too, upon discovering that all this was nothing
but what was common, though I ought to have been as
thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence as
if it had been miraculous. It was degreally the work of
Providence, that ten or twelve grams had remained un-
spoiled, when the rats had :destroyed all the rest...: It
was the work of Provmlence, too, that I had. throwif it
out in that particular :place, where? Since it was in then '
shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately. If I '
had thrown it anywhere else at that time it would have
been burned up and destroyed. ,

I carefully saved the grain, you may be sure, in its
season, which was about the end of June, and resolved
to sow it all again, hoping in time to have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. It was
not till the fourth year, however, that I could allow
myself the least particle of this grain to eat, and even
then but sparingly, as I shall tell afterwards in its
order. I lost all that I sowed the first season by not
observing the proper time, for I sowed it just before the
. dry season, so that it never came up at all, at least,
not as it would have done.

Besides this barley, there were, as I said, twenty or
8 .
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley
straw. I thought that these two pots would hold
my dry grain, and perhaps the meal when the grain
was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with better
success, such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, and anything my hand turned to, and
the heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was
to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear
the fire, which none of these could do. It happened
after some time that I made a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat. When I went to put it out after I
had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my
earthenware vessels in the fire, burned as hard as a
stone and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to
see it, and said to myself that certame they might be
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to
make it burn me some pots.- I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with, but
I placed three large pipkins and two or three pots
in a pile one upon another, and placed my firewood
all round it, with a great heap of embers under them.
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through, and observed that they did not crack
at all. When I saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that heat about five or six hours, till I found that one
of them, though it did not crack, did melt or run. For
the sand which was mixed with the clay, melted by
the violence of the heat and would have run into glass,
if I had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the
red color of the. pots began to fade. I watched them all
night that I might not let the fire abate too fast, and
'in the morning I had three very good, I will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as
hard burned as could be desired, and one of them per-
fectly glazed with the rumiing of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use, but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indif-
ferent, as anyone may suppose, when I had no way of
making them, but as the children make dirt pies, or as
a woman would make pies who had never learned to
make paste. '

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever -
equal to mine, when I found I had made earthen pots
that would bear the fire. I had hardly patience to
wait till they were cold, before I set one upon the fire
again, with some water in it, to boil me some meat,
which it did admirably well. With a piece of a kid I
made some very good broth, though I lacked oatmeal ,
and several other ingredients requisite to make it as
good as I would have had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some grain in. As to the mill, there was
no thought of arriving to that perfection of art with
one pair of hands. To supply this want, I was at a
great loss, for of all trades in the world I was as per-
fectly unqualified for a stonecutter as for any. Neither
had I any tools to go about it with. I spent many a
day trying to find a great stone big enough to cut
hollow and make fit for a mortar, and could find
none at all. After a great deal of time lost in searching
for a stone, I gave it up, and resolved to look for a
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much
easier. Getting one as big as I had strength to stir,
I rounded it, and formed it on the outside with my
ax and hatchet. Then, with the help of fire and in-
finite labor, I made a hollow place in it, as the Indians
in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great
heavy pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-
wood. This I prepared and laid by against the time
I had my next crop of grain, when I proposed to my-
self to grind, or rather pound, my grain or meal to
make it bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, to dress my
meal and part it from the bran and the husk, without
which I did not see it possible I could have any b-read.
This was a most difficult thing even to think of, for,
to be sure, I had nothing like the necessary things to
make it with. I needed fine, thin canvas, or stuff, to
sift the meal through, and here I was at a full stop for
many months. At last I remembered some seamen's
clothing, some sails of the ship, and some neckcloths
of calico or muslin. With some pieces of these I made
.three sieves, small, but large enough for the work.
Thus I made shift for some years.

. The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have
grain, for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as
there was no supplying the want, I did not concern
myself much about it. But for an oven, I was indeed
at a loss. At length I made an experiment for that also,
which was this: I made some earthen vessels very
broad, but not deep; that is to say, about two feet in
diameter, and not more than nine inches deep. These
I burned in the fire, as I had done the others, and laid
them by. When I wanted to bake, I made a great fire
upon the hearth, which I had paved with some square
tiles of my own making and burning, also, but I
should not call them square. When the firewood was
burned pretty much into embers, or live coals, I drew
the embers forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it
all over. There I let them lie, till the hearth was very
hots Then sweeping away all the embers, I set down
my loaf, or loaves, and covered them with the earthen
pot. Then I drew the embers all round the outside of
the pot, to keep in and add to the heat. Thus, as well
as in the best oven in the world, I baked my barley
loaves, and became in a little time a pastry cook into
the bargain, for I made myself several cakes and pud-
dings of the rice.very broad but not deep

I made some earthen vessels,
It need not be wondered at if all these things took
me up most of the third year of my'abode here, for it
must be remembered that in the intervals of these
things, I had my new harvest and husbandry to man-
age. I reaped my grain in its season and carried it
home as well as I could and laid it up in the ear, in
my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out, for
I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash
it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of grain increased and
I really wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a
place to lay it up in, for the increase of the grain now
yielded me so much that I had of the barley about
twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more. I
now resolved to begin to use it freely, for my bread had
been quite gone a great while, also I resolved to see
what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year,
and to sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could consume
in a year, so I resolved to sow just the same quantity
every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a
quantity would fully provide me with bread.

All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure that my thoughts ran many times upon the pros-
pect of land which I had seen from the other side of the
island. I was not without secret wishes that I was on
shore there, fancying that seeing the mainland and an
inhabited country, I might find some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some
means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands
of savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to
think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. If
I once came into their power, I should run a hazard
more than a thousand to one of being killed, and per-
haps of being eaten, for I had heard that the people of
the Caribbean coast were cannibals, or men-eaters,
and I, knew by the latitude that I could not be far
from that shore. All these things, I say, which I ought
to have considered well, and which I did cast up in my
thoughts afterwards, yet aroused none of my appre-
hensions at first. My mind ran mightily upon the
thoughts of getting over to that shore.

At last I thought I would go and look at our ship's
boat. She was blown up upon the shore a great way
in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay
almost where she did at first, but not quite, and was
turned, by the force of the waves and the winds, almost
bottom upwards, against a high ridge of rough sand,
but there was water about her as before.

Had I had ,hands to have refitted her and have
launched her into the water, the boat would have
done well enough, and I might have gone back into
the Brazils with her easily enough. I might have
forseen, however, that I could no more turn her, and
set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove
the island. However, I went to the wood, and cut levers
and rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving
to try what I could do. I suggested to myself, that if
I could but turn her down, I might easily repair the
damage she had received, and she would be a very good
boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it.
At last, finding it impossible to heave it up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand to un-
- dermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces

of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get under it, much less to move it forward
toward the water, so I was forced to give it up. Yet,
though I gave up hopes of the boat, my desire to ven-
ture over increased in the main, rather than decreased,
as the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length set me to thinking whether it was not
possible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such as
the natives of those climates make, even without tools,
of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought
possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely with
my thoughts of making it, and with my having much
more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indians. However, I did not at all consider the par-
ticular inconvenience which I lay under more than the
Indians did, that is, the want of hands to move it into
the water, when it was made. This was a difficulty
much harder for me to surmount than all the conse-
quences ofwant of tools could be to them. But my
thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the sea
in it, that I never once considered how I should get it
off the land. It was really in its own nature easier for
' me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea than over
forty-five fathom of land, from where it lay, to set it
afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat and pleased'myself
with the plan, without determining whether I was able
to undertake it. The difficulty of launching my boat .
came often into my head, but I put a stop to my
own inquiries into it by this foolish answer which
I gave myself: "Let me first make it, I will warrant
I will find some way or other to get it along when it is
done."

This was a most preposterous method, but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went,
and felled a cedar tree. I question much whether
Solomon ever'had such a one for building the temple
of Jerusalem. It was five feet,'ten inches in diameter
at the lower part next the stump, and four feet, eleven
inches in diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after
which it lessened for a While and then parted into
branches. It was not withOut infinite labor that I
felled this tree; I was twenty days hacking and hewing
at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting the
branches and limbs and the vast spreading head of it
cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with my
ax and hatchet, with inexpressible labor. After this
it cost me a month to shape it and rub it to a propor-
tion, and to something like the bottom:,;_iof a boat,
that it might swim upright as it ought. It cost me
nearly three months more to clear the inside and work
it out so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did
indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
the dint of hard labor, till I had made it into a very
handsome periagua, big enough to have carried six
and twenty men, and consequently big enough to have
carried me and all my cargo.

The boat was really much bigger than I had ever
in my life seen a canoe or periagua that was made of
one tree. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be
sure, and now there remained nothing but to get it
into the water. Had I succeeded in this, I make no
question but I should have begun the maddest voyage,
and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was
undertaken.

But all my devices to get the boat into the water
failed me, though they cost infinite labor, too. It lay
about one hundred yards from the water, and not
more, but the first inconvenience was that it was uphill
toward the creek. Well, to take away this discourage-
ment, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth,
and so make a declivity. This I began, and it cost me
a prodigious deal of pains, but what man grudges
pains when he has his deliverance in View? But when

this was worked through, and, this difficulty managed,
things were little better, for I could no more stir the
'canoe than I could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a canal to bring the water up to the canoe,
since I could not bring the canoe down to the water.
Well, I began this work, and when I began to enter
into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug,
how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my
own, it must have been ten or twelve years before I
should have gone through with it. The shore lay high,
so that at the upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep. At length, though with great re-
luctance, I gave this attempt up also.

This grieved me heartily, and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we count
the cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength
to go through with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort, as ever before.
By a constant study and serious application of the
word of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I had
gained a different knowledge from that I had had be-
fore. I entertained different notions of things. I
looked now upon the world as a thing remote, which
I had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and in-
deed no desires about. In a word, I had nothing in-
deed to do with it, nor was likely to have, so I thought
it looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter,
as a place I had lived in, but was come out of. Anda-
well might I say, as Father Abraham to Dives, "Be-
tween me and thee there is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was removed from all the wicked-
ness of the world here. I had neither the lust of the
flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had
nothing to covet, for I had all I was now capable of
enjoying. I was lord of the manor, or, if I pleased, I
might call myself king or emperor over the whole
country which I had possession of; there were no rivals.
I might have raised shiploads of grain, but I had no
use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for
my occasion. I had tortoises or turtles enough, but
one now and then was as much as I could put to any
use. I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships;
I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have
cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when it
had been built.

I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas,
there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay! I had no use
for it, and I often thought with myself that I would
have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco pipes,
or for a hand mill to grind my corn. Nay, I would have
given it all for six-penny worth of turnip and carrot
seed out of England, or for a handful of peas and beans,
and a bottle of ink.

I had now been here so long that many things which
. I brought on shore for my help were either quite gone,

or very much wasted, and nearly spent. My ink, as I
observed, had been gone for some time, all but a very
little, which I eked out with water a little and a little,
till it was so pale it scarcely left any appearance of black
upon the. paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it
to mark down the days of the month on which any re-
markable thing happened to me, and first, by casting
up times past, I remembered that there was a. strange
cOncurrence of days, in the various fates which befell
me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined
to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have
had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of
curiosity.

First, I had observed that on the anniversary of the
day that I broke away from my father and my friends
and ran away to Hull in order to go to sea, the same
day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-of-war
and made a slave.

. One year from the very day that I escaped out of
the wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, I made my
escape from Sallee in the boat.

The 30th of September, on my twenty-sixth birth-
day, I had my life miraculously saved when I was cast
on shore on this island, so that my wicked life and my
solitary life both began on the same day.

' The next thing to give out after my ink were the
biscuits which I had brought out of the ship. This I
had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself
but one piece of bread a day for more than a year, and
yet I was quite without bread for nearly a year before
I got any grain of my own. Great reason I had to be
thankful, too, that I had any at all, for getting it was,
as has been already observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily. I had
had no linen for a great while, except some checkered
shirts which I found in the chests of the other seamen,
and which I carefully preserved, because many times
I could bear no clothes on but a shirt. It was a very
great help to me that I had among all the men's
clothes of the ship almost three dozen shirts. There
were also several thick watch coats of the seamen's,
but they were too hot to wear. Though it is true that
the weather was so violently hot that there was no
need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked; nor
could I bear the thought of it, though I was all alone.

One reason why I could not go quite naked was
that I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked as with some clothes on. The very heat
. frequently blistered my skin, whereas, if I had a shirt
on, the airitself made some motion, and Whistling
under the shirt, made me twofold cooler than I should
have been without it. No more could I ever bring
myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or
a hat. The heat of the sun beating with such violence
as it does in that place, would give me the headache
presently, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put

on my hat, it would presently go away.
12
As I thought these things over, I began to consider
about putting the few rags I had, which I called clothes,
into some order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I
had, and my business was now to try to make jackets
out of the great watch coats which I had by me, and
with such other materials as I had. Accordingly, I
set to work tailoring, or rather, indeed, botching, for
I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
'shift to make two or three waistcoats, which I hoped
'would serve me a great while. As for breeches or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed till after-
wards.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all
animals that I killed. I hung them up stretched out
with sticks in the sun, by which means some of them
were so dry and hard that they were fit for little, but
others, it seems, were very useful. The first thing I
made of these was a great cap for my head, with the
hair on the outside to shoot off the rain. I did this so
well that after this I made a suit of clothes wholly of
those skins, that is to say, a waistcoat and breeches
open at the knees, both loose, for they were rather
wanted to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I
must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly
made, for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor.
However, they were such as I made very good shift
with, and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain,
the hair of the waistcoat and cap being outmost, I
was kept very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and
had a great mind to make one. I had seen them made
in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the great
heat which is there. I felt the heat every jot as great
here, and greater too, being nearer the equinox. Be-
sides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most
useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heat.
I took a world of pains at it, and was a great while
before I could make anything likely to hold. Indeed,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three
before I made one to my mind, but at last I made one
that answered indifferently well. The main difficulty
I found was to make it let down. I could make it to
spread, but if it did not let down, too, and draw in, it
would not be portable for me any way, but just over

- my head, which would not do. However, at last, as I

said, I made one to answer. I covered it with skins,
the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a
penthouse, and kept off the sun so effectually that
I could walk out in the hottest of the weather, with
greater advantage than I could before in the coolest.
When I had no need of it, I could close it, and carry it
under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God and
throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His Provi-
dence.

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-"iSS "'6'".

[168' ROBINSON CRUSOE'

traordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in
the same course, in the same place, just as before. I
had my yearly labor of planting my barley and rice
and curing my raisins, of which I always kept just
enough to have sufficient stock of the year's provisions
beforehand. Besides these I undertook the task of
making my daily labor of going out with my gun. I
had, too, a canoe, which at last I finished. By digging
a canal to it six feet wide and four feet deep, I brought
fit. into the creek, almost half a mile away.

Hewever, though my little periagua was finished,
yet the size of it was not at all sufficient for the design
which I had in view, when I made the first. I had
planned to venture over to the land which I had seen,
where it was more than forty miles broad. Accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an
end to that design, and now I thought no more of it.

But as I had a boat, my next design was to make a
tour round the island. I had been on the other side,

in one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over
the land, and the discoveries that I had made in that

. journey had made me very eager to see other parts of

the coast. Now that I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, and that I might do everything
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship's sails, of which I had a great store
by me. 'I fixed my umbrella. in a step at the stern
Having fitted my mast and sail and tried the boat, I
found that she would sail very well. Then I made little
lockers and boxes at each end of my boat, to put pro:
visions, necessaries, and ammunition into, to be kept
dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea. I cut a
little, long, hollow place in the inside of the boat, where
I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang down over
it to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the'heat of
the sun off me, like an awning. Thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea, but never went
far out, nor far from the little creek. But at last, being
eager to View the circumference of my little kingdom, I
resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I supplied
my ship with food for the voyage, putting in two dozen
of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I'
ate a great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat,
and powder with shot for killing more,.and two large
watch coats, which I took, one to lie upon, and the
other to cover me in the night. '

It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, whichever you please, that
I set out on this voyage. I found it much longer than
I expected, for though the island itself was not very
large, yet "when I came to the east side of it, I found
that a great ledge of rocks lay out about two leagues
into the sea, some above water, some under it. . Bee
yond this there was a shoal of sand, lying dry half a
league more, so that I was obliged to go a great way
out to sea to double "that point.

When I first discovered them, I was going to give
up my attempt and come back again, not knowing
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above
all, doubting how I should get back again. Accord-
ingly I came to anchor, for I had made me a kind of
anchor, with a piece of broken grappling which I got
out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went
on shore, climbing up a hill, which seemed to over-
look that point, where I saw the full extent of it.

In my Viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed, a most furious cur-
rent, which ran to the east, and even came close to the
point. I took the more notice of it, because I saw that
there might be some danger that when I came into it,
I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and
not be able to make the island again. And, indeed,
had I not gotten first upon this hill, I believe it would
have been so, for there was the same current on the
other side of the island, only that it set it off at a farther
distance. I saw that there was a strong eddy under
the shore, so I had nothing to do but to get out of the
first current, and I should presently be in an eddy.

I lay here, however, 'two days, because the wind
blowing pretty fresh (E. at S. E. and that being just
contrary to the current) made a heavy surf upon the
point, so that it was not safe for me to keep too close
to the shore on account of the surf, nor to go too far
off because of the current.

The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured,
but I am a warning example again to all rash and ig-
norant pilots. No sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not my boat's length from the shore, but I
found myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with
it with such violence that all I could do could not keep
her so much as on the edge of it, but I found it hurried
me farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on
the left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me,
and all that I could do with my paddles signified
nothing. And now I began to give myself up for lost;
for, as the current was on both sides of the island, I
knew that in a few leagues' distance they must join
again, and then I was irrecoverably gone. I saw no
possibility of avoiding it, so that I had no prospect
before me but of perishing, not by the sea, for that was
calm enough, but by starving. I had indeed found a
tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and
had tossed it into the boat, and I had a great jar of
fresh water. But what was all this to being driven
into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no
shore, no mainland or island, for a thousand leagues
at least!

However, I worked hard, till indeed my strength
was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much
to the northward, that is, toward the side of the
current which the eddy lay on, as I possibly could.
About noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I thought
I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing
up from the S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when in about half an hour more, it
blew a small, gentle gale. By this time I was at a fright-
ful distance from the island, and, had the least cloud
_ or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another
way, too. I had no compass on board, and should .
never have known how to steer toward the island, if I
had but once lost sight of it. But the weather continued
clear, and I applied myself to get up my mast again,
and spread my sail, standing away to the north as
much as possible, to get out of the current. This eddy
carried me about a league in my way back again di-
rectly toward the island, but about two leagues more
toward the northward than the current lay, which
carried me away at first, so that when I came near the
island, I found myself open to the northern shore of
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite
to that which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found that it
was spent and served me no further. However, I found,
that since I was to the west of the island, between the
two great currents, that on the south side which had
hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay
about two leagues on the other side, the water was at
least still, and running no way. I had still a breeze
of wind fair for me and I kept on steering directly for
the island, though not making such headway as I
did before.

About four o'clock in the afternoon, being then
within about a league of the island, I stretched across
this eddy, slanting northwest, and in about an hour
came within a mile of the shore. It being smooth water,
I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat. Refresh-
ing myself with such things as I had, I brought my
boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had espied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being
quite spent with the labor and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat. I had run so much risk, and knew too
much the case to think of attempting it by the way I
went out. What might be at the other side I knew
not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures.
I only resolved in the morning to make my way west-
ward along the shore, and to see if there was any creek
Where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to have
her again if I wanted her. In about three miles, or
thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to a very good
inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till
it came to a very little rivulet, or brook, where I found
a convenient harbor for my boat, and where she lay as
if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for
her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very
safe, I went on shore to look about me and see where I
was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before when I traveled on foot to that
shore, so taking nothing out Of my boat but my gun
andmy umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began
my walk. The way was comfortable enough after
such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my
old bower in the evening, where I found everything
standing as I left it, for I always kept it in good order,
it being, as I said before, my country house.

I got over the fence, and lay down in the Shade to
rest my limbs, for I was very weary. I soon fell asleep,
but judge if you can, you that read my story, what a
surprise I had, when I was awakened out of my sleep
by a voice calling me by my name several times: "Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe! Poor Robin Crusoe! Where
are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have
you been?"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and walking the latter part, that I did not
awaken thoroughly. Dozing between sleeping and wak-
ing, I thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me,
but as the voice continued to repeat "Robin Crusoe,
Robin Crusoe," at last I began to awake more per-So taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella, I began

my walk
fectly. I was at first dreadfully frightened and started
up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner were
'my eyes open than I saw my Poll sitting on the top of
the hedge, and immediately knew that this was he
that spoke to me, for just in such bemoaning language
I had used to talk to him and teach him. He had
learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my
finger and lay his bill close to my face and cry, "Poor
Robin Crusoe, where are you? Where have you been?
How came you here?"----and such things as I had
taught him. , ,

However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good
while before I could compose myself; I'was amazed
how the creature got thither, and that he should just
keep about the place, and nowhere else, but as I was
well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I
got over my fright. I held out my hand and called
him by his name, and the sociable creature came to
me, and sat upon my thumb, as he was used'to doing,
and continued talking to me just as if he was over<<
joyed to see me again. When I went home I carried
him along with me.

I had had enough of rambling the sea to last me
for some time. For many days I was satisfied to sit
still and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I
should have been very glad to have had my boat again
on my side of the island, but I knew not how it was
practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough
there was no venturing that way. My very heart
would shrink, and my very blood run chill, just to
think of it. As to the other side of the island, I did
not know how it might be there, but if the current ran
with the same force against the shore at the east, as
it passed by it on the other, I might run the same risk
of being driven down the stream, and carried by the
island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it. With these thoughts I contented myself to
be without any boat, though it had been the product
of so many months' labor to make it, and of so many
more to get it into the sea.
FOOD AND CLOTHING

WAS now in the eleventh year of my residence.

As I have said, my ammunition was growing

low, and I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch
some of them alive. I particularly wanted a she-goat
great with young. To this purpose I made snares to
catch them. I believe that they were more than once
taken in them, but my snares were not strong, for I
had no wire, and I always found them broken and my
bait devoured. At length I resolved to try a pitfall.
I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I
had observed that the goats used to feed, and over
these pits I placed hurdles of my own making, with a
great weight upon them. Several times I put barley
and dry rice there without setting the trap, and I could
. easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten
up the grain, for I could see the marks of their feet.
At length, I set three traps in one night, and when I
went the next morning, I found them allpstanding,
and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very dis-
couraging. However, I altered my trap, and, not to
trouble you with particulars, when I went one morn-
ing to see my traps, I found in one of them a large, old
he-goat, and, in one of the others, three kids, a male

and two females.
179
I knew not what to do with the old one. He was
so fierce I dared not go into the pit to him, to bring
him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could
have killed him, but that was not my business, nor
would it answer my end. Finally I let him out, and
he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his
wits. I did not then know what I afterwards learned,
that hunger would tame a lion. If I had let him stay
there three or four days without food, and then had
carried him some water to drink, and then a little
grain, he would have been as tame as one of the kids,
for they are very wise, tractable creatures when they
are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time. Then I went to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, I tied them together with
strings and with some difficulty brought them all home.

.It' was a good while before they would feed. How-
ever, I threw them some sweet grain, and after a time it
tempted them, and they began to be tame. I now ,
found that if I expected to supply myself with goat's
flesh, when I had no powder or shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only way. Then perhaps I
might have them about my house like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep
the tame from the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up. The only way to do this was
to have some inclosed piece of ground, well fenced,
either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually
that those within might not break out, or those with-
out break in.

I first found a proper piece of ground wherein my
goats might have grass and water. To inclose this
pasture, I planted about it rows of a green, prickly
scrub.

I was about three months hedging in the first
piece, and till I had done it, I tethered the three kids
in the best part of it, and made them feed as near me
as possible, to make them tame. Very often I would
go and carry them some barley, or a handful of rice,
and feed them out of my hand, so that after my en-
closure was finished, and I let them loose, they would
follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful
of grain.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a
half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all.
In two years more I had three-and-forty, besides several
I took and killed for my food. After that I inclosed
five different pieces of ground to feed them in, with
little pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted
them, and gates out of one piece of ground into an-
other.

But this was not all. Now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk, too, a thing
which indeed in my beginning I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise. Now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in

13'
a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make
use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily
and handily, though after several trials, made both
cheese and butter and never wanted for it after-
wards.

It would have made anyone smile to see me and my

family sit down to the table which God in his mercy
had furnished me here in the wilderness. I was like a
king, dining alone, attended only by my servants.
' Poll, as if he had been my favorite, was the only
. person permitted to talk to me; my dog, which was
now grown old and crazy, and found no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand;
the two cats sat one on one side of the table, and one
on the other, expecting now and then a bit-from my
hand as a mark of special favor.

These were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead, and
had been buried near my habitatiOn by my own hands.
One of them had multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, and these were two which I kept tame.
The rest ran wild into the woods, and became indeed
troublesome to me at last. They would often come
into my house, and plunder me, too, till at last I was
obliged to shoot them. After I had killed a great
many, they stopped molesting me.

In this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I
be said to want anything but society, and of that,
some time after this, I came near having too much.

I was somewhat impatient, as I have observed, to
have the use of my boat, though I was very loath to
run any more risk. Therefore, sometimes I tried to
contrive ways to get her about the island, and at other
times I was contented enough without her. But I
had a strange longing in my mind to go down to the
point of the island, where, as I have said, in my last
ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay and
how the current set, that I might see what I had to do.
This inclination increased every day, and at length I
resolved to travel thither by land, and following the
edge of the shore, I did so.

Had anyone in England met such a man as I was,
it must either have frightened them or raised a great
deal of laughter. As I frequently stood still to look at
myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my travel-
ing through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and in
such a dress. I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made
of goat's skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as
well to keep the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off
from running into my neck. Nothing is so hurtful in
these climates as the rain upon the flesh under the
clothes. I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts
coming down to about the middle of my thighs, and a
pair of open-kneed breeches of the same. The breeches

'were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair
hung down such a length on either side that, like pan~
taloons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings
and shoes I had none, but I made me a pair of some.-
thing, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins,
to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like spatter-
dashes,* but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were
all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of dried goat's skin, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles. In a kind of frog on either side of this, instead
of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet,
one on one side, one on the other. I had another belt
not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, which
hung over my shoulder, and at the end of it, under my
left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin,
too. In one of these hung my powder, in the other my
shot. At my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder
my gun, and over my head a great, clumsy, ugly goat's--
skin umbrella, which, after all, was the most necessary
thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the color of it was really not so Mulatto-like as one
might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and
living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My
beard I had once allowed to grow till it was about a
quarter of a yard long, but as I had both scissors and
razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what
grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen
worn by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee. Of these

'Spntterdashes are legginfi or guitars.
mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were of
length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in
England would have passed for frightful. But all this
is by the by, for I had so few to observe my figure that
it was no manner of consequence, so I will say no more
about it.

I was out five or six days on my new journey. I
traveled first along the seashore, directly to the place
.'where I first brought my boat to an anchor to get up
upon the rocks, and having no boat now to take care
of, I went over the land a nearer way to the same
height that I was upon before. When I looked out to
the point of the rock which I had been obliged to double
with my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see
the sea all smooth and quiet. There was no rippling,
no motion, no current, any more there than in other
places. '

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in observing it, to see if
the sets of the tide had occasioned it. As I considered,
I was presently convinced that the tide of ebb setting
from the west, and joining with the current of waters
from some great river on the shore, must be the occa-
sion of this current. Therefore, according as the wind
blew more forcibly from the west, or from the north,
this current came nearer or went farther from the
shore. I waited thereabouts till evening and went up
to the rock again. The tide was then at the ebb, and
I plainly saw the current again as before, only that it
ran farther off, being nearly half a league from the
shore. When I had gone by there, the current had
run close to the shore, and hurried me and my canoe
along with it, which at another time it would not have
done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island. One was my
little fortification or tent, with the wall about it under
the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time
I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large earthen
pots, of which I have given an account, and with four-
teen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five
or six bushels each. There I laid up my stores of pro-
vision, especially my grain, some cut off short from the
straw, and some rubbed out-with my hands.

As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance, to anyone's view, of any
habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay the two
pieces of ground, which I kept duly cultivated and
sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest of
grain in its season. Whenever I had occasion for more
grain, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also. First, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair. I
kept the hedge which circled it in constantly fitted up to
its usual height, the ladder standing always in the in-
side. The trees, which at first were'no more than my
stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall, I kept
always so cut, that they might spread and grow thick
and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which
they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of this
I had my tent always standing. It was a piece of sail
spread over poles set up for that purpose and never
wanted any repair or renewing. Under this I had
made a couch, with the skins of the creatures I had
killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid
on them, such as belonged to our sea bedding which
I had saved, and a great watch coat to cover me. Here,
whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief
seat, I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my vinclosures for my
goats. I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to
fence and inclose this ground, and I was so uneasy to
see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through,
that I never stopped till with infinite labor I had stuck
the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, so near
to one another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge.
There was scarcely room to put a hand through be-
tween them, when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the next rainy season, and they made the inclosure
stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass Whatever appeared
necessary for my comfortable support. I considered
that the keeping up of a breed of tame creatures would
be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese
for me, as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be
forty years. Keeping them in my reach depended en-
tirely upon my perfecting my inclosures to such a de-
gree. that I might be sure of keeping them together.
By this method, indeed, I succeeded so Well that, when
these little stakes began to grow, I found that I had
planted them so very thick that I was forced to pull
some of them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully as
the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet.
Indeed, they were not only agreeable, but wholesome,
nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about halfway between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither, for
I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about her in very good order. Sometimes I went out
in her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages
would I go, nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two
from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried
out of my knowledge again by the currents, or winds,

or any other accident.
THE SAVAGES

OW I come to a new scene of my life. It happened
N one day about noon as I went toward my
boat that I was exceedingly surprised to see
the print of a man's naked foot on the shore, which
was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition. I
listened, I looked round me. I could hear nothing,
see nothing. I went up to a rising ground to look
farther. I went up the shore and down the shore,but
it was all one, I could see no other impression but that
ones I went to it again, to see if there were any more,
and to observe if it might not be my fancy, but there
was no room for that, for there was exactly the very
print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot.
How it came thither I knew not, nor could in the least
imagine. I came home to my fortification, terrified
to the last degree, looking behind me at every two or
three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancy-
ing every stump at a distance to be a man.

When I came to my castle, for. so I think I called it
ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued. Whether
I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at
the hole in the rock, which I called a door, I cannot re-

member, no, nor could I remember the next morning.
190
. I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from
the occasion of my fright the greater my apprehensions
were, which is something contrary to the nature of
such things, and especially to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear. But I was so filled with my own
frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing
but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was
now a great way from it.

At last I concluded that it must be some of the
savages of the mainland, who had wandered out to
sea in their canoes, and, either driven by the currents
or by contrary winds, had made the island, and had
been on shore, but were going away again to sea, being
as loath, perhaps, to stay in this desolate island as I
would have been to have had them.

For a long time I lived in great fear, and then one
day it came into my thoughts, that all this might be
a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might
be the print of my own foot when I came on shore from
my boat. This cheered me up a little, too, and I began
to persuade myself that it was all a delusion. I con-
sidered that I could by no means tell for certain where
I had trod, and where I had not.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days
and nights, so that I began to starve for provision. I
had little or nothing within doors but some barley cakes
and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to be
milked too, which usually was my evening diversion.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet
(and soI might be truly said to start at my own shadow),
I began to go abroad again, and went to my country
house to milk my flock. To see with what fear I went
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was
ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket
and run for my life, would have made anyone think
that I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I
had been lately most terribly frightened. And so in-
deed I had!

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
saw nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think
that there was really nothing in it but my own imagina-
tion. I could not persuade myself fully of this, however,
till I should go down to the shore again and measure
the print by my own foot. But when I came to the
' place first, it appeared evident to me that when I

laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any-
where thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to measure
the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so
large by a great deal. Both these things filled my head
with new imaginations. '

Tortured with fear of what visiting savages might ,
do to me, I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through, beyond where
my fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw a second
fortification, in the manner of a semicircle, at a distance
from my wall, just where I planted a double row of
trees about twelve years before, of which I made men-
tion. These trees had been planted so thick that
when a few piles were driven between them, my wall
was finished.

I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every-
thing I could think of to make it strong. It had in it
seven holes big enough for me to put my arm through.

In the inside of this I thickened my wall to about ten
feet thick, continually bringing earth out of my cave,
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon
it. Through the seven holes I contrived to plant
muskets, which I had brought on shore out of the ship.
I planted them like cannon, and fitted them into frames
that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes' time. This wall I was
many a weary month in finishing, and I never thought
myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground outside
my wall, for a great way every way, full of (stakes or
sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found so ready to
grow. I believe I must have set in nearly twenty thou-
sand of them, leaving a pretty large space between them
and my wall so that I might have room to see the
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young
trees, if they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove, and in
five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling,
grown so monstrous thick and strong that it was in-
deed perfectly impassable. No man would ever have
imagined that there was anything beyond it, much less
a dwelling. I myself proposed to go in and out (for I
left no avenue), by setting two ladders, one to a part
of the rock which was low and broken in, and the other
on the ledge thus formed. When the two ladders were
taken down, no man living could come down to me
without hurting himself, and if he did come down, he
would still be on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence
could suggest for my own preservation. It will be seen
later on that they were not altogether without just
reason, though I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear Suggested.

While I was doing this I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs. I was particularly careful of my
little herd of goats. They were not only a present sup-
ply to me upon every occasion, and began to be suf<<
ficient for me without the expense of powder and shot,
but they also did away with the fatigue of my hunting
after the Wild ones. I was loath to lose the advantage of
them, and to have them all to raise over again.

Accordingly, I spent some time in finding out the
most retired part of the island. I finally selected three
acres of choice pasture in the woods. This I now pro-
ceeded to fence and to make as firmly secure as my
first meadow. Here then I placed a part of my young
. goats, very carefully concealed among the trees.
All this labor I was at the expense of purely from my
apprehensions on the account of the print of a man's
foot which I had seen. As yet, I had not seen any
human creature come near the island, and I had now
lived two years under these uneasinesses, which indeed
made my life much less comfortable than it was before,
as may well be imagined by any who know what it is
to live in the constant fear of man.

One day on a trip to the end of the island, where
~ indeed I had never been before, I was presently con-
vinced that seeing the print of a man's foot was not
such a strange'thing in the island as I imagined. I
began to see that it was due to a special Providence
that I was cast upon the side of the island where the
savages never came. If I had not been, I should easily
have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the mainland, when they happened
to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that
side of the island for harbor. I should have known,
too, that as they often met and fought in their canoes,
the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring
them over to this shore, where, according to their
dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill
and eat them. More of this hereafter.

When I had come down the hill to the shore, which
was, as I said above, the S. W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed, nor is it possible for
me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of
human bodies. Particularly, I observed a place where
there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the
earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed that the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow creatures. I turned away my
face from the horrid spectacle, my stomach grew sick,
and I was just at the point of fainting. I could not
bear to stay in the place a moment, so I hurried up
the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked
on toward my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island I
stood still awhile, amazed. Then, recovering myself,
I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and,
with a flood of tears in my eyes, I gave thanks to God
who had cast my first lot in a part of the world where
I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as
these.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle and began to be much easier now as to the
safety of my circumstances than ever I was before.
I observed that these wretches never came to this island
in search of what they could get. No doubt they had
often been up in the covered woody part of it without
finding anything to their purpose. I knew that I
had been here now almost eighteen years, and had
never seen the least footsteps of a human creature
there before. 'I might be here eighteen years more as
entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover
myself to them.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up, that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two
years after this. When I say my own circle, I mean
by it my three plantations, my castle, my country
seat, which I called my bower, and my inclosure in
the woods. I did not look after this for any other use
than as an inclosure for my goats, for the aversion which
nature gave me for these hellish wretches was such

, that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil
himself. . .

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people
began to wear off my uneasiness about them. I began
to live just in the same composed manner as before,
only with this difference, that I used more caution and
kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I
should happen to be seen by any of them. Particularly,
I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them
being on the island should happen to hear it. However,
I was never without my gun, the two pistols, and also
the old cutlass I had brought from the boat.

_ Night and day I could think of nothing but how
I might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel,
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up

a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be
H
to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon in my thoughts, for destroying these
creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to pre-
vent their coming hither any more. All this was
fruitless, however. Nothing could take effect unless
I Was to be there to do it myself, and what could one
man do among them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts,
or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot
as true to a mark as I could with my gun?

Sometimes I planned to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds
of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it. There were two arguments against this, how-
ever. In the first place, I should be very loath to
waste so much powder upon them, my store being now
within the quantity of a barrel. In the second place, I
could not be sure of its going off at any certain time
when it might surprise them. So I laid aside this plan
and began to think how I could place myself in am-
bush with my three guns and surprise them in that
way.

I went so far with it in my indignation, that I em-
ployed myself several days in finding out proper places
to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for
them. Also I prepared two muskets and my ordinary
fowling piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace
of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets. about
the size of pistol bullets. The fowling piece I loaded
with almost a handful of swan shot of the largest
size; I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets
each. In this way, well provided with ammunition for
a second and third charge, I prepared myself for my
expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and
in my imagination put it into practice, I continually
made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill,
which was about three miles or more from my castle,
as I called it, to see if I could observe any boats upon
the sea coming near the island, or standing over
toward it. I began to tire of this hard duty, after I
had for two or three months constantly kept my
watch, for I always came back without any discovery.

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to
look out, so long, also, I kept up the vigor of my design.
My spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable
frame for so outrageous an execution as the killing
of twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offense which
I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my
thoughts. My passions were fired by the horror I
conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of
that country. Now, when, as I have said, I began to
be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made
so long, and so far, every morning, my opinion of the
action itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler
and calmer thoughts, to consider what it was that I was
going to engage in. I asked myself what authority or
call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon
these men as criminals, whom God had thought fit
for so many ages to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and
to be, as it were, the executioners of His judgments
upon one another. I considered also, how far these
people were offenders against me, and what right I
had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they
shed promiscuously one upon another.

Religion joined in with this prudent resolution, and
I was convinced now in many ways that I had mis-
judged my duty, when I was laying all my bloody
schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures--in-
nocent as to me, that is. As to the crimes they were
guilty of toward one another, I had nothing to do with
them. They were rational, and I ought to leave them
to the justice of God.

It was now the month of December, in my twenty-
third year. The southern solstice, for winter I cannot
call it, was the particular time of my harvest, and re-
quired my being pretty much abroad in the'fields.
One morning when I went out fairly early, even before
it was thorough daylight, I was surprised to see a light
of some fire upon the shore. It was at a distance from
me of about two miles, toward the end of the island,
where I had observed that some savages had been
before. This was not on the other side, however, but to
my great affliction it was on my side of the island.
Climbing to the top of the hill, and pulling out my
perspective glass, which I had taken on purpose, I
lay down flat on my belly on the ground, and began
to look for the place. I presently found that there were
no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small
fire they had made. They did not need it to warm them,
for the weather was extremely hot, but, as I supposed,
they had it to dress some of their barbarous diet of
human flesh, which they had brought with them,
whether alive or dead I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore. As it was then ebb tide,
they seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood
to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them on my side of the island, and so near me, too.
However, when I observed that their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I began to be more
comfortable in my mind. I was satisfied that I might
go abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood,
if they were not on shore before. When I had made
this observation, I went abroad about my harvest
work with more composure.

As I expected, so it proved. As soon as the tide made
to the Westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or
paddle as we call it) all away. I should have observed
that, for an hour and more before they went off, they
were dancing, and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glasses. I could not perceive, by
my nicest observation, but that they were stark naked.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders and two pistols at my
girdle and my great sword by my side, without a
scabbard, and with all the speed that I was able to
make, I went away to the hill, where I had discovered
the first appearance of all. As soon as I got thither,
which was not less than two hours (for I could not go
swiftly, being so loaded with arms), I perceived that
there had been three canoes more of savages at that
place. Looking out farther, I saw that they were all
at sea together making over for the mainland.

Going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, the blood, the bones, and part of
the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those
wretches with merriment and sport. I was so filled
with indignation at the sight, that I began now to
plan the destruction of the next that I saw there, let
them be who or how many soever.

It seemed evident to me that the visits which they
thus made to this island were not very frequent, for it
was more than fifteen months before any more of them
came on shore there again, that is to say, I never saw
them, or any footsteps, or signs of them in all that
time. I found that they did not come in the rainy
season. , Yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by
reason of the constant fears I was in of their coming
upon me by surprise.

While in this state of mind, I found a wonderful
cave in which I might hide from the cannibals, if need
be. Sometimes I went into this cave just for the com-
fort of seeing how well I could be concealed in it. One
morning late in the last month of my twenty-third
year on the island, I was going to this cave when I
heard a terrible sound from the sea.

I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in company, and fired these guns for
signals of distress and to obtain help. I had enough
presence of mind at that minute to think that though
I could not help them, it might be that they might help
me. Accordingly, I brought together all the dry wood
I could get at hand, and making a good sized pile, I
set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry and
blazed freely, and though the wind blew very hard,
yet it burned fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was
any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it. No
doubt they did, for as soon as my fire blazed up, I heard
another gun, and after that several others, all from
the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till
day broke, and when it was broad day, and the air
cleared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea,
full east of the island, whether a sail, or a hull, I could
not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the distance
was so great, and the air was still so hazy out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move. I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor, and being eager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand and
ran toward the southeast side of the island, to the
rocks, where I had been formerly carried away with
the current. Getting up there, the weather by this
time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my
great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I had found
when I was out in my boat. Since they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-
stream, or eddy, they were the occasion of my recover-
ing from the most desperate, hopeless condition that
ever I had been in. >>

Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's
destruction. These men, whoever they were, were out
of their knowledge, and since the rocks were wholly
under water, they had been driven upon them in the
' night, the wind blowing very hard at E. and E. N. E.

Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavored
to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat. The firing of their guns for help, especially when
they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts.

In the condition I was in, I could do no more than
look upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them,
which had still this good effect on my side, that it gave
me more and more cause to give thanks to God, who
had so happily and comfortably provided for me in
my desolate condition. Out of two ships' companies,
who were now cast away upon this part of the world,
not one life had been spared but mine. I learned here
again to observe that it is very rare that the providence
of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or
any misery so great, that we may not see something
to be thankful for, and may see others worse than our-
selves. ,

Such certainly was the case of these men, for I
could not see any reason to suppose that any of them
were saved. Nothing could make it rational to wish
or expect that they did not all perish there, except the
possibility only of their being taken up by another
ship in company. This was but mere possibility in-
deed, for I saw not the least sign or appearance of any
such thing.

I cannot explain by words what a strange longing
or hankering of desires I felt in my soul upon this
sight. Sometimes I broke out thus: "0 that there
hadbeen but one or two, nay, but one soul saved out
of the ship, to have escaped to me, that I might have
had one companion, one fellow creature, to have spoken
to me, and to have conversed with!"

In all the time of my solitary life, I never felt so
earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my fellow
creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it.

But it was not to be. Either their fate, or mine, or
both, forbade it. Till the last year of my being in this
island, I never knew whether any were saved out of
the ship or not. I had only the affliction, some days
after, of seeing the corpse of a drowned boy washed on
shore, at the end of the island which was next the ship-
wreck. He had on a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of
open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt, but
nothing to direct me to guess what nation he was of.
He had nothing in- his pocket but two pieces of eight
and a tobacco pipe. The last was of more value to me
than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but
that I might find something on board that might be
useful to me. Possibly there might be yet some living
creature on board, whose life I might save. I might,
by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree.
This thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be
quiet, but I must venture out in my boat on board
this wreck, committing the rest to God's providence.
I thought that the impression was so strong upon my
mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come
from some invisible direction, and that I should be
wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage,
took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a
great deal of that left), and a basketful of raisins.
Thus loading myself with everything necessary, I went
down to my boat, which I had finally brought around
the island and hidden in a cove. I emptied the water
out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo
in her, and then went home again for more. My
second cargo was a great bagful of rice, the umbrella
to set up over my head for a shade, another potful of
fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or
barley cakes, more than before, a bottle of goat's milk,
and a cheese. All of these, with great labor and sweat, I
brought to my boat, and praying to God to direct my
voyage, I put out. Rowing or paddling the canoe along
the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the
island on that side, namely, N. E. And now I was to
launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not
to venture. I looked at the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island at 'a distance,
and which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the risk I had been in before, and my heart
began to fail me. I foresaw that if I was driven into
either of these currents, I should be carried a great
way out to sea, and perhaps out of reach or sight of
the island again, and that then, since my boat was
so small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should
be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed me that I began to
consider giving up the enterprise. I steered my boat
into a creek and stepped out. Securing my boat, I
hastened to climb a little hill which sufficiently over-
looked the sea both ways. Here I found that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of the
island, so the current of the flood set in close by the
shore of the north side. Therefore I had nothing to
do but to keep to the north side of the island on my
return, and I should do well enough. Encouraged by
this observation, I resolved to set out with the first
of the tide the next morning. I reposed myself for the
night in my canoe, under the watch coat I mentioned.

Early the next morning I launched out. I first
made a little out to sea, full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and which
carried me at a great rate. Having a strong steerage
with my paddle, I went at high speed directly for the
wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which
by its building was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in
between two rocks. All the stern and quarter of her
were beaten to pieces by the sea, and as her forecastle,
which stuck on the rocks, had run on with great
Violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought
by the board, that is to say, broken short off, but her
bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon
her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried. As soon
as I called him, he jumped into the sea to come to
me. I took him into the boat, and found him almost
dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving for a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the
poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would
have let him, he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board. The first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook room, or fore-
castle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke
so high, and so continually over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the con-
stant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had
been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing
left in the ship that had life, or any goods that I could
see, but what were spoiled by the water. There were
some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew
not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water
being ebbed out, I could see, but they were too big
to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I believed
belonged to some of the seamen, and I got two of them
into the boat, without examining What was in them.

Had the stern of the ship been whole and the fore
part broken off, I am persuaded that I might have
made a good voyage, for, by what I found in these
two chests, I had reason to suppose that the ship had
had a great deal of wealth on board. If I may guess
by the course she steered, she must have been bound
for Buenos Aires, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south
part of America, beyond the Brazils, to Havana, in the
Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain.

I found besides these chests a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets
in the cabin and a great powder horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it. I had no need for the
muskets, so I left them, but I took the powder horn.
I took a fire shovel and tongs which I wanted extremely;
also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron. With this cargo and the
dog I Came away, the tide beginning to make home
again. The same evening, about an hour before night,
I reached the island again, wearied and fatigued to
the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morn-
ing I resolved to harbor what I had gotten in my new
cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After refresh-
ing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to
examine it. When I came to open the chests, I found
several things I wanted; for example, I found in one a
fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled
with cordial waters, fine, and very good. The bottles
held about three pints each, and were tipped with
silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or
sweetmeats, so fastened on top that the salt water
had not hurt them, and two more of the same, which
the water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts,
which were very welcome to me, and about a dozen
and a half of white linen handkerchiefs, and colored
neckcloths. The handkerchiefs were also very welcome,
being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face on in a hot,
dry day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight,
_ which held about eleven hundred pieces in all. In one of
them, wrapped up in a paper, there were six doub-
loons of gold, and some small bars of gold; I sup-
pose they might all weigh nearly a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value. By the circumstances it must have
belonged to the gunner's mate, though there was no
powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed powder
in three small flasks, kept, 1 tsuppose, for charging
their fowling pieces on occasion. Upon'the whole, I got
very little by this voyage that was of much use to me,
for, as for the money, I had no manner of occasion for
it. It was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I would
have given it all for three or four pairs of English shoes
and stockings and a good coat.
FRIDAY

NE night, in the rainy season, in March, the
O four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot
in this land of solitariness, I had the following
dream. I thought that as I was going out in the
morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore
two canoes, and eleven savages coming to land. They
were bringing with them another savage, whom they
were going to kill, in order to eat him. Suddenly
the savage that they were going to kill made his es-
cape and ran for his life. Then I thought in my dream
that he came running into my little grove, before my
fortification, to hide himself. I, seeing him and not
perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed
myself to him and encouraged him. He knelt down
to me, seeming to pray to me to assist him, upon which
I showed him my ladder,,made him go up, and helped
him into my cave, and he became my servant. I
thought that as soon as I had got this man, I said to
myself, "Now I may venture to the mainland, for this
fellow will serve me as a pilot and tell me what to do,
and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to
go for fear of being devoured; what places to venture
into, and what to escape."

I awoke with this thought, and was under such in-
212
expressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my
escape in my dream, that the disappointment I felt
upon coming to myself and finding that it was no more
than a dream was really extravagant the other way,
and threw me into a very great dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape was to
try to get a savage in my possession.

About a year and a half after my dream I was sur-
prised one morning early to see no less than five canoes
all on shore together, on my side of the island, and
the people who belonged to them all landed. . The num-
ber of them broke all my measures, for I could not tell
what to think of it, or how to take my measures to at-
tack twenty or thirty men single-handed, so I lay still
in my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However,
I put myself into the position for an attack that I had
formerly planned, and was ready for action, if anything
happened. I waited a good while, listening to hear if
they made any noise. At length, being very impatient,
I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered
up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual.
I was careful to stand, however, so that my head did
not appear above the hill, so that they could not per-
ceive me by any means. I here observed, by the help'
of my perspective glass, that they were no less than
thirty in number, that they had a fire kindled, and
that they had meat dressed. How they cooked it,

that I knew not, or what it was, but they were all danc-
15
ing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures and
figures, round the fire.

While I was thus looking at them, I perceived, by
my perspective glass, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and
were now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived
one of them immediately fall, being knocked down,
I suppose, with a club, or wooden sword, for that was
their way. Two or three others went to work cutting
him open for their cookery, While the other victim was
left standing by himself till they should be ready for
him. In that very moment the poor wretch, seeing
himself a little at liberty, was inspired with hopes
of life. He started away from them, and ran with in-
credible swiftness along the sands, directly toward that
part of the coast where I was.

I was dreadfully frightened (that I must acknowl-
edge) when I saw him run my way, and especially
when, as I thought, I sawhim pursued by the whole
body. I expected that part of my dream would come
to pass, and that he would take shelter in my grove.
I could not depend, by any means, upon my dream for
the rest of it, that the savages would not pursue him
thither, and find him there. However, I kept my
station, and my spirits began to recover when I found
that there were not more than three men that followed
him. Still more was I encouraged, when I found that
he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained
ground on them, so that if he could but hold out
for about half an hour, he would fairly get away from
them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I knew the poor Wretch must necessarily swim
over, or he would be taken there. However, when the
savage who was escaping came thither, he made noth-
ing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunging
in, he swam through it in about thirty strokes, or
thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three pursuers came to the
creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the
third could not, and that he, standing on the other
side, looked at the others, but went no farther, and
soon after went quietly back again, which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him.

I observed that the two who swam were twice as
long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that
fled from them. It came now very warmly upon my
thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was my
time to get a servant, and perhaps, a companion or
assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence
to save this poor creature's life. I immediately got
down the ladders, caught up my two guns, for they
were both at the foot of the ladders, and getting up
again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed toward the sea. I had a very short cut, all
down hill, and I soon clapped myself in the way between
the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to
him that fled.' He, looking back, was at first as much
frightened at me as at them, but I beckoned with my
hand to him to come back. In the meantime I slowly
advanced toward the two that followed, then rushing
at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with
the stock -of my piece. I was loath to fire, because I
did not want the rest to hear, although at that distance
it would not have been easily heard. They were out
of sight of the smoke, too, and would not have known
what to make of it. When I knocked this fellow down,
the other who followed him stopped, as if he had
been frightened, and I advanced a pace toward him.
As I came nearer, I perceived presently that he had a
bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me, so
I was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which I
did, and killed him at the first shot.

The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though
he saw both his enemies fallen, and killed (as he thought),
yet was so frightened with the noise and fire of my
piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came for-
ward nor went backward, though he seemed rather
more inclined to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed
again to him, and made signs to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way,
then stopped again, and then a little farther, and
stopped again. Then he stood trembling, as if he had
been taken prisoner, and was just about to be killed, as
his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to come
to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement

that I could think of. He came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of ac-
knowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him,
and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer. At length he came close to me, and then
he knelt down again, kissed the ground, and, taking
my foot, set it upon his head. This, it seems, was his
way of swearing to be my slave forever. I took him up,
and made much of him, and encouraged him all I
could.

I perceived that the savage whom I had knocked
down was not killed, but only stunned with the blow,
and was beginning to come to himself. So I pointed
to him, showing the savage that he was not dead.
Upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I
could not understand them, yet I thought they were
pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound of a
man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for
more than five-and-twenty years. But there was no
time for such reflections now. The savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit upon
the ground, and I perceived that the savage with me
began to be afraid. When I saw that, I pointed my
other gun at the man, as if I would shoot him. At
this my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion
to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a
belt by my side.

He no sooner had it than he ran to his enemy and
at one blow cleverly cut off his head. No executioner
in Germany could have done it sooner or better. I
thought this very strange for one who, I had reason
to believe, had never seen a sword in his life before,
except the wooden swords his people used. However,
it seems, as I learned afterwards, that they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so
hard, that they could cut off heads and arms with
them, and at one blow, too. When he had done this,
he came laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought
me the sword again, and laid it down, with the head
of the savage he had killed, just before me.

He was astonished how I had killed the other man
so far off, and going to him, he stood like one amazed,
looking at him, turning him, first on one side, then on
the other. He looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which was in the breast, where it had made a hole, and
no great quantity of blood had followed, but he had
bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. Then he took
his bows and arrows, and came back, and I motioned
for us to go away, making signs that more might come
after them. Upon this, he signed to me, that he
should bury them with sand, that they might not be
seen by the rest, if they followed. I made signs for him
to do so and he fell to work, and had them buried in
the sand in about a quarter of an hour.

I then called him away, and took him not to my
castle, but my cave, on the farther part of the island.
So I did not let my dream come to pass in that re-
spect, namely, that he came into my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which he was in great distress
for, because of his running. When I had refreshed him,
I made signs for him to go to sleep, pointing to a place
where I had laid a great parcel of rice straw, and a
blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself
sometimes. The poor creature lay down and went to
sleep.

He was a handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
tall and well-shaped, and, as I thought, about twenty-
six years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
a fierce and surly aspect, but he seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face, and he had all the sweet-
ness and softness of a European in his countenance, too,
especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, '
not curled like wool, his forehead very high and large,
and there was a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness
in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite black,
but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous
tawny, but of a bright kind of dun olive color that
had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to describe. His face was round and plump, his
nose small, not flat like those of the Negroes, his mouth
was very good, with thin lips, and his teeth fine, well
set, and white as ivory.

' After he had slumbered about half an hour, he

waked, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been
milking the goats in the inclosure just by.- When he
saw me, he came running, and laid himself on the
ground again, with all the possible signs of an humble,
thankful disposition, making many gestures to show
it. At last he laid his head flat upon the ground, close
to my foot, and set my other foot upon his head, as he
had done before, and after this, made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude, and submission imagin-
able, to let me know how much he would serve me as
long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was well pleased with him. In a
little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me. First I made him know that his name
should be Friday, which was the day I saved his life.
I likewise taught him to say, "Master," and then let
him know that that was to be my name. I also taught
him to say, "Yes," and "No," and to know the meaning
of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and
some bread, and let him see me drink some before him,
and sop my bread in it, which he quickly imitated,
and made signs that it was very good.

I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as
it was day, I took him away with me. As we went by
the place where he had buried the two men, he pointed
exactly to the spot, and showed me the marks he had
made to find them again. I then led him to the top
of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and pulling
out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where.
they had been, but no appearance of them or their
canoes. Evidently they were quite gone.

I then took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously.
I made him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself,
and away we marched to the place where these crea-
tures had been. When I came there, my very blood
ran chill in my veins, and my heart sank within me at
the horror of the spectacle. Indeed, it was a dread-
ful'sight. The place was covered with human bones,
the ground dyed with the blood, great pieces of flesh
left here and there. Friday, by his signs, made me
understand that they had brought over four prisoners
to feast upon, that three of them were eaten, and that
he, pointing to himself, was the fourth. There had been
a great battle between them and their next king, whose
subject it seems he had been and they had taken a
great number of prisoners.

I caused Friday to gather all the bones and flesh
that remained, and lay them together in a heap, and
burn them to ashes. I found that he was still a canni-
bal in his nature, but I displayed such abhorrence at
the very thoughts of it, that he dared not show it, for
I let him know that I would kill him if he did.

When we had done this, we came back to our castle,
where I gave. Friday first of all a pair of linen. drawers,
which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I found in
the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very well. Then I made him a jacket of goat's
skin, as well as I was able, and I gave him a cap, which
I had made of a hare's skin. Thus he was dressed,
for the present, tolerably well, and mighty well was he
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his

master. He went awkwardly in these things at first.

Wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and ,
the sleeves of the jacket rubbed his shoulders and the

inside of his arms, but he soon got used to them.

The next day after I came home to my but with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him.
I made a little tent for him in the vacant place between
the two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and in
the outside of the first. As there was an entrance there
into my cave, I made a formal framed door case, and a
door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a
little within the entrance, and causing the door to open
in the inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my
ladders, too. So Friday could no way come at me in
the inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much noise in getting over, that it must needs awaken
me, for my first wall had now a complete roof over it
of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to
the side of the hill. The poles were laid across with
small sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over
thickly with the rice straw, which was as strong as
reeds. At the hole or place which was left to go in or
out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trapdoor,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would
not have opened at all, but would have fallen down and
made a great noise. I took care to take all the weapons
in with me and lay them by my side every night.

But I needed none of these precautions, for neverI made it my business to teach him everything that was proper
and useful
was a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday
was to me. He was without passions, sullenness, or
designs; his very affections were tied to me, like those of
a child to its father, and, I dare say, he would have
sacrificed his life for the saving of my own, upon any
occasion whatever.

I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my
business to teach him everything that was proper and
useful, and especially to make him speak, and under-
stand me when I spoke. He was a very apt scholar,
and he was so merry, so diligent, and so pleased when
he could understand me, or make me understand him,
- that it was very pleasant for me to talk to him. And
now my life began to be very easy and happy. _

After I had been two or three days in my castle, I
thought that in order to get Friday away from this
horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's
stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh. So I
took him out with me one morning to the woods. I
saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young
kids close by her. At once I caught hold of Friday.

"Stop," said I; "stand still," and made signs to
him not to stir. Immediately I raised my gun, shot,
and killed one of the kids. The poor creature who had,
at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy,
but did not know, and could not imagine how it was
done, was greatly surprised. He trembled, and shook,
and looked so amazed, that I thought he would sink
.down. He ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was
not wounded. As I found, he thought that I was
resolved to kill him, for he came and knelt down to
me, and, embracing my knees, said a ' great many
things that I did not understand, but I could see that
his meaning was to pray to me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm. Taking him up by the hand, I
laughed at him, and, pointing to the kid I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and get it, which he did. While
he was looking to see how the creature was killed, I
loaded my gun again, and by and by I saw a great
fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree Within shot. So
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which
was a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk.
Then I pointed to my gun, and to the ground under the
parrot, to let him see that I would make him fall.
In this way I made him understand that I would shoot
and kill that bird. Accordingly I fired, and bade him
look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. He
stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all
that I had said to him. I found that he was the more
amazed because he did not see me put anything into
the gun. He thought that there must be some wonder-
- ful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able
to kill man, beast, bird, or any other thing, near or
far off. I believe, if I would have let him, that he would
have worshiped me and my gun. As for the gun it-
self, he would not so much as touch it for several days

x

l
after, but would talk to it, desiring it, as I afterwards
learned of him, not to kill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and get the bird which I
had shot. He stayed some time, for the parrot, not
being quite dead, had fluttered a good way off from the
place where she fell. However, he found her, took her
up, and brought her to me. As I had perceived his
ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage
to load the gun again, and not let him see me do it,
that I might be ready for any other mark, but noth-
ing offered at that time. ,

I brought home the kid, and the same evening
took the skin off, and cut it up as well as I could.
Having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth.
After I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man,
who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well.
It was very strange to him, however, to see me eat
salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was
not good to eat, and putting a little into his own mouth,
he seemed to nauseate at it, and would spit and sputter,
washing his mouth with fresh water after it. On the
other hand, I took some meat in my mouth without
salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of
salt, as fast as he had done at it, but it would not do.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth,
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting
a piece of the kid. This I did by hanging it before the
fire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire,
and one across the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday
admired very much. When he came to taste the flesh,
he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it,
that I could not but understand him. At last he told
me he would never eat man's flesh any mere, which I
was very glad to hear. -

The next day I set him to work beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do.
He soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially
after he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that
it was to make bread of. After that I let him see me
make my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me as well as I
could do it myself.

I began now to consider that having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than
I used to do. Accordingly, I marked out a larger piece
of land, and began the fence in the same manner as
before. Friday not only worked very hard, but very
cheerfully. I told him that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself, too. He ap-
peared to understand that part, and let me know that
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him
what to do. -
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led
in this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and
chatted a great deal to me. He understood the names
of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of
every place I had occasion to send him to, so that I
began to have some use of my tongue again. Besides
the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satis-
faction in the fellow himself. His simple, unfeigned
honesty appeared to be more and more every day, and
I began really to love the creature, and I believe he loved
me as much as possible.

I had a mind once to see if he had any lingering in-
clination for his own country. I had taught him Eng-
lish so well that he could answer almost any questions,
so I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle. At this he smiled, and
said, "Yes, yes; we always fight the better," and so we
began the following discourse:

"You always fight the better!" said I. "How
came you to be taken prisoner, then, Friday?"

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

Master. How beat? If your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken?

Friday. They more than my nation in the place
where me was: they take one, two, three, and me.
My nation beat them in yonder place, where me no
was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.

Master. But why did not your side recover you

from the hands of your enemies, then?
16
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe. My nation have no canoe that time.

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them away,
and eat them, as these did?

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

Master. Where do they carry them?

Friday. Go to other place, where they think.

Master. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither: come other
else place.

Master. Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W.
side of the island, which it seems was their side.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had
formerly been among the savages who had come on
shore on the farther parts of the island, on man-eating
occasions such as he had been brought for. Some
time after, when I took courage to carry him to that

, side, he knew 'the place, and told me that he had been
there once when they had eaten up twenty men, two
women, and one child.

After I had had this discourse with him, I asked
him how far it was from our island to the shore and
whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me
that there was no danger, no canoes ever lost, but that,
after a little way out to sea, there was a current, and
the wind was always one way in the morning, and the
other in the afternoon.
This I thought to be no more than the sets of the
tide, going out or coming in, but I afterwards under-
stood that it was caused by the great draught and re-
flux of the mighty river Oronoque. In the mouth of
this river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay.
I thought that this land, which I perceived to the
W. and N. W., was the great island Trinidad, on the
north'point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday
a thousand questions about the country, the inhabit-
ants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near.
He told me all he knew, with the greatest openness
imaginable. I asked him the names of the several
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other
names than Caribs. From this I easily understood
that thesewere the Caribbes, which our maps place
, on that part of America which reaches from the mouth
of the river Oronoque to Guiana, and onward to St.
Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the
moon, by which he meant the region west of their
country, there dwelt white, bearded men like me, and
pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before,
and that they had killed "much mans." By all thisIun-- _
derstood that he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties
in America had been spread over whole countries, and
were remembered by all the nations from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men.
He told me yes, yes, I might go in "two canoe." I
could not understand what he meant by "two canoe,"
til] at last, with difficulty, I found that he 'meant that
it must be a large boat, as big as two canoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to interest
me very much. From this time I entertained some
hopes that, one time or other, I might find an oppor-
tunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means of helping me to
do it.

I now wanted to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in Friday's mind, so I asked him one time
who made him. The poor creature did not understand
me, but thought I had asked him who his father was.
But I took it another way, and asked him who made
the sea, the ground he walked on, and the hills and the
woods. He told me that it was one old Benamuckee,
that lived beyond all. He could describe nothing of
this great person, but that he was very old, much
older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon
or the stars. I asked him then, if this person had made
all'things, why all things did not worship him. He
looked very grave, and with a perfect look of innocenCe
said, "All things said O to him." I asked him if the
people who died in his country went away anywhere.
He said, that they all went to Benamuckee. Then I
asked him whether those they ate up went thither too.
He said, "Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up toward
heaven; that he governed the world by the same power
and providence by which he had made it; that he was
omnipotent, could do everything for us, give every-
thing to us, take everything from us. Thus, by de-
grees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great at-
tention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus
Christ's being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and his being able to hear
us, even in heaven.

I sent Friday for something a great way off, and
while he was gone I seriously prayed to God that he
would enable me to instruct this poor savage, assist-
ing by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant crea-
ture to receive the light of the knowledge of God in
Christ, reconciling him to himself. I prayed that he
would guide me so to speak to Friday from the Word
of God that his conscience might be convinced, his
eyes opened, and his soul saved.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction. I must acknowledge what I believe all that
act upon the same principle will find, that, in laying
things open to him, I really informed and instructed
myself in many things that I either did not know or
had not fully considered before, but which occurred
naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them
for the information of this poor savage. I had more
pleasure in my inquiry after things upon this occasion
than ever I had felt before, so that whether this poor
wild wretch was the better for me or not, I had great
reason to be thankful that he had come to me. My
grief sat lighter upOn me, my habitation grew com-
fortable to me beyond measure. I reflected that, in
this solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not
only been moved myself to look up to heaven and to
seek the hand that brought me thither, but I was now
to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save
the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul, of a poor
savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of re-
ligion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might
know Jesus Christ, "whom to know is life eternal."

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such as made the
three years, which we lived there together, perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happi-
ness can be found in a sublunary state. The savage
was now a good Christian, a much better than I,
though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, and
we were no farther off for his Spirit to instruct than
we should have been in England. I always applied
myself to reading the Scriptures, and to letting Friday
know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read.

After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and he could understand almost all that I
said to him, and could speak fluently, though in broken
English to me, I told him my story. I let him into the
mystery of gunpowder and bullets, and taught him
how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonder-
fully delighted with, and I made him a belt with a
frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers* '
in, and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a
hatchet.

I described to him the countries of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from. I told him
how we lived, how we worshiped God, how we behaved
to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts
of the world. I gave him an account of the wrecked
vessel which I had been on board of, and showed him,
as nearly as I could, the place where she had lain.
She had been gone for some time.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
when I escaped, and which was now fallen almost to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood' musing
some time, and said nothing. I asked him what he
studied upon. At last he said, "Me see such boat like
come to place at my nation."

I did not understand him for a great while, but at
last, when I had examined farther into it, I understood
by him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on
shore upon the country where he lived, that is, as he
explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather.
I presently imagined that some European ship must
have been cast away upon their coast and the boat

* A hanger is a short, usually curved sword.
must have gotten loose, and been driven ashore. I
was so dull that I never once thought of men making
their escape from a- wreck thither, so I only inquired
for a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough, but
he brought me better to understand him when he added,
with some warmth, "We save the white mans from
drown."

Then I asked him if there were any white mans, as
he called them, in the boat. ,

"Yes," he said, "the boat full of white mans."

I asked, "How many?"

He told me upon his fingers seventeen.

I asked, "What became of them?"

He told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head again, for I
presently imagined that these might be the men be-
longing to the ship that was cast away in sight 'of my
island, who, after the ship was struck on the rock, and
they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in
their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore
among savages;

Upon this I inquired of him more critically what
had become of them. He assured me that they still
lived there and had been there about four years. He
said that the savages let them alone and gave them
food. I asked him how it came to pass that they did
not kill them and eat them. He said, "No, they make
brother with them," meaning, as I understood him, that
they had made a truce. Then he added, ."They no
eat mans, but when make the war fight." That is to say,
they never eat any men, but such as come to fight with
them, and are taken in battle.

It was after this, some considerable time, that we
were on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island,
from whence I had, in a clear day, discovered the main-
land, or continent of America. The weather was very
clear, and as Friday looked very earnestly toward the
mainland, he began jumping and dancing, and called
out to me. I asked him what was the matter.

"0 joy!" says he. "0 glad! There see my country!
There my nation!"

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appear
in his face, his eyes sparkled and his countenance was
alight with strange eagerness, as if he wanted to be in
his own country again. This observation of mine put
a. great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday as I had
been before. I did not doubt, that if Friday could get
back to his own nation again, he would not only for-
get all his religion, but all his obligations to me.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards. However, as
my jealousy increased and held me some weeks, I was
a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before, in which I was certainly in the
wrong.

While my jealousy of him lasted, I was every day
pumping him, to see if he would disclose any of the new
thoughts which I suspected were in him, but I found
everything he rsaid- so honest and so innocent, that I
could find nothing to nourish my suspicion. In spite
of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his
own again, nor did he in the least perceive that I was
uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him of deceit.

One day we were walking up the same hill. The
weather this time was hazy at sea, so that we could not
see the continent. "Friday," I said, "do not you wish
yourself in your own country, your own nation?"

"Yes," he said; "I be much glad to be at my own
nation."

"What would you do there?" I asked. "Would
you turn wild again, eat man's flesh again, and be
savage as you were before?" ,

Friday shook his head and said, "N o, no; Friday
tell them to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them
to eat corn bread, cattle flesh, milk; no eat man again."

"Why, then," I told him, "they will kill you."

Seeing my alarm, he looked grave and said, "N 0,
they no kill me; they willing love learn." He meant
by this that they would be willing to learn. He added
that they had learned much of the bearded men that
had come in the boat. Then I asked if he would go
back to his people. He smiled at that, and told me
he could not swim so far. I told him I would make a
canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would go

with him.
"I go!" said I. "Why they will eat me if I come
there!"

"No, no," said he, "me make them no eat you;
me make they much love you." He meant he would
tell them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his
life, and so he would make them much love me. .

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with these bearded
men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portu-
guese. I did not doubt that, if I could, we might find
some method to escape from thence, being upon the
continent, and a good company together, better than
I could from an island, forty miles off the shore, and
alone without help. So, after some days I took Friday
to work again, and. told him that I would give him a
boat to go back to' his own nation. Accordingly I took
him to my frigate. When I had cleared it of the water, I
brought it out, showed it to him, and we both went
into it. .

I found that he was very dexterous at managing it,
and would make it go almost as swiftly again as I
could, so I said to him, "Well, now, Friday, shall we
go to your nation?' ' He looked very dull at my saying
so, which, it seems, was because he thought the boat was
too small to go so far. I told him then I had a bigger,
so the very next day I went to the place where the first
boat lay, which I had made, but which I could not get
into the water. He said that that was big enough,
but as I had taken no care of it. and it had lain two-
or three-and--twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it so that it was in a manner rotten. Friday
told me that such a' boat would do very well and would
carry "much enough vittle, drink, bread."

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my. design of going over with him to the continent, that
I told him that we would go and make one as big as
that, and he should go home in it. He answered not
one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him.

He answered with a question. "Why you angry
mad with Friday? What me done?"

I asked him what he meant, and told him that I
was not angry with him at all.

"N o angry! No angry!" said he, repeating the
words several times. "Why send Friday home away to
my nation?" '

"Why," said I, "Friday, did you not say you wished
you were there?"

"Yes, yes," said he, "wish we both there; no wish
Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would
not think of going there without me.

"You shall go without me; leave me here to live by
myself as I did before." .

He looked confused at this, running to one of the
hatchets which he used to wear, hefitook it up hastily,
and gave it to me.

"What must I do with this?" said I to him.

"You take kill Friday," said he.
"What must I kill you for?" said I again.

He returned very quickly, "What you send Friday
away for? Take kill Friday; no send Friday away."

As he spoke, tears stood in his eyes, and I was so
affected that I said that I would never send him away,
if he was willing to stay with me.

I found that all the foundation of his desire to go to
his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the
people, and his hopes of my doing them good. This
was a thing which I had no notion of myself, so I had
not the least thought, or intention, or desire of under-
taking it. But still I had a strong inclination to at-
tempt an escape, founded on the supposition gathered
from the former discourse, that there were seventeen
bearded men there. Therefore, without any more de-

lay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large canoe, for the

, voyage. After searching some time, Friday at last
pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much better
than I what kind of wood was fittest for it. I cannot
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down,
except that it was very like the tree we call fustic,*
or between that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was
much of the same color and smell. Friday was for
burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make
it into a boat, but I showed him how to cut it out with
tools. After I had showed him he did it very handily,

* The fustic is a large tree in South America. Its wood, which is
soft, is used as a yellow dye.
and after about a month's hard labor we finished it,
and- made it very handsome, especially when with our
axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and
hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After
this, however, it cost us nearly a fortnight's time to
get her along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great
rollers, into the water. When she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with ease.

It amazed me to see with what dexterity and how
swiftly my man Friday would manage her, turn her, .
and paddle her along. So I asked him if he would,
and if we might venture over in her.

"Yes," he said, "me venture over in her very well,
though great wind blow."

However, I had a further design that he knew noth-
ing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her with an anchor and a cable. As to the mast,
that was easy enough to get. I pitched upon a straight
young cedar tree, which I found near the place, and of
which there were plenty in the island. I set Friday to
work to cut it down, and gave him directions how to
shape and order it, but the sail was my particular
care. I knew I had pieces of old sails, but as I had had
them now twenty-six years by me, and had not been
very careful to preserve them, they were nearly all
rotten. However, I found two pieces which appeared
pretty good, and with a great deal of pains and awk-
ward, tedious stitching, for want of needles, I at length
made a three-cornered ugly thing, such as we call in
England a shoulder-of-mutton sail. It was to go with
a boom at the bottom, and a little short sprit at the
top, such as usually our ships' long boats sail with,
and such as I best knew how to manage, because it
was such a one as I used in the boat in which I made
my escape from Barbary.

I was nearly two months rigging and fitting out
my mast and sails, for I fitted them very completely,
making a small stay, and a Sail, or foresail to it, to
assist, if we should turn to Windward. What was
more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to
steer with, and though I was but a bungling shipwright,
yet, as I knew the usefulness and even necessity of such
a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it,
that at last I brought it to pass.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat. He knew very well how to paddle the canoe,
but he knew nothing about a sail and a rudder, and
how the sail gibed, and filled this way or that way,
as the course we sailed changed. When he saw this,
he stood like one astonished and amazed. However,
with a little use, I made all these things familiar to
him, and he became an expert sailor, except that I
could make him understand very little of the compass.
However, there was not much occasion for the compass
in these parts.

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year
of my captivity in this place. The three last years
when I had Friday with me ought to be left out of
the account, for my life was quite another kind than
in all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of
my landing here with the same thankfulness to God
for his mercies as at first. If I had had such cause of
acknowledgment at first, I had much more so now,
having such additional testimonies of the care of Provi-
dence over me, and the great hopes I had of being ef-
fectually and speedily delivered. I had a persistent
impression that my deliverance was at hand, and that
I should not be another year in this place. However,
I went on with all my work as usual.

The rainy season was in the meantime upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times,
We had stowed our new vessel as securely as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship. Thus
we waited for the months of November and December,
in which I planned to make my venture.THE SAVAGES RETURN

' N [HEN the settled season began to come in, the
first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity
of provisions as the store for our voyage. I in-
tended in a week or a fortnight's time to open the dock
and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning
upon something of this kind, when I called to Friday
and bade him go to the seashore and see if he could
find a turtle or a tortoise--a thing which we generally
got once a week for the sake of the eggs, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and fairly flew over my outer wall, or
fence. Before I had time to speak to him, he cried out
to me, "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"
"What's the matter, Friday?" said I.
"Oh, yonder there," said he, "one, two, three canoe!
One, two, three!"
By this way of speaking, I concluded that there were
six; but, on inquiry, I found that there were but three.
"Well, Friday," said I, "do not be frightened,"
and I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw that the poor fellow was most
terribly scared. I comforted him as well as I could, and
told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they

would eat me as well as him.
17 245
"But," said I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight
them. Can you fight, Friday?" '

"Me shoot," said he, "but there come many great
number." '

"N o matter 'for that," said I. "Our guns will
frighten those that we do not kill." I asked him
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bade him.

He said, "Me die when you bid die, master."

I made him take the two fowling pieces, and load
them with swan shot, as big as small pistol bullets.
Then I took four muskets and loaded them with two
slugs and five small bullets each, and my two pistols
I loaded with a brace of bullets each. I hung my great
sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself I took my per-
spective glass, and went up to the side of the hill to
see what I could discover. I found quickly by my
glass that there were twenty-one savages, three pris-
oners, and three canoes. Their whole business seemed
to be a triumphant banquet upon these three human
bodies, but they were doing nothing more than what
I had observed was usual with them.

They were landed, not where they had been when
Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where
the shore was low, and where a thick wood came close
almost down to the sea. This, With the abhorrence of
the inhuman errand these wretches came about, so
filled me with indignation, that I came down to Fri-
day, and told him I was resolved to go down to them
and kill them all, and asked him if he would stand by
me. He had now gotten over his fright, and was very
cheerful. He told me as before, "Me die when you
bid die."

I entered the wood with all possible wariness and
silence (Friday following close at my heels) and marched
till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which
was next to them, butone corner'of the wood lay be-
tween me and them. Here I called softly to Friday,
and showing him a great tree which was just at the
corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring
me word if he could see there plainly what they were
doing. He did so, and came immediately back to me,
and told me that they might be plainly viewed there.
They were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and another lay bound upon the sand,
alittle from them, whom, he said, they would kill next.
That fired the very soul within me. He told me that
it was not one of their own nation, but one of the
bearded men whom he had told me of, that came to
their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at
the very naming of the white, bearded man, and, going
to the'tree, I saw plainly by my glass a white man, who
lay upon the beach with his hands and feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes. I saw that he was a Euro--
pean, and had clothes on. .

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which I saw I might reach undiscovered.
Then I should be. within half a shot of them. So I
withheld my passion, and, going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I canie to the other tree, and then I came to a
little rising ground, which gave me a full View of them,
at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher
the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by
limb, to their fire. Already they had stooped down to
untie the bands at his feet.

I turned to Friday. "Now, Friday," said I, "do
as I bid you."

Friday said he would.

"Then, Friday," said I, "do exactly as you see me
do; fail in nothing."

So I set down one of the muskets and the fowling
piece upon the ground, and Friday did the same with
his. With the other musket I took my aim at the sav-
ages, bidding him do the same. I asked him if he was
ready, and he said, "Yes."

"Then fire at them," said I, and at the same mo-
ment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side he shot he killed two of them and wounded
three more; on my side, I killed one and wounded two.
They were in a dreadful consternation. All of them who
were not hurt jumped to their feet immediately, but
they did not know which way to run or which way to
look, for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, so that, a:
I bade him, he might observe what I did. As soon as
the first shot was made, I threw down the piece and took
up the fowling piece, and Friday did the same. He
saw me cock and take aim and he did the same again.

"Are you ready, Friday?" said I.

"Yes," said he.

"Let fly, then," said I, and with that I fired again
among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday. As
our pieces were now loaded with what I call swan shot,
or small pistol bullets, we found only two drop, but
so many were wounded that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody and
wounded most of them. Three more fell quickly after,
but they were not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged
pieces and taking up the musket, which was yet loaded,
"follow me." Upon this I rushed out of the wood and
showed myself, and Friday followed close at my heels.
As soon as I perceived that they saw me, I shouted as
loud as I could, and bade Friday do so, too. Running
as fast as I could, which, by the way, was not very fast,
I made directly toward the poor victim, who was, as I
said, lying upon the beach, between the place where
they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were
just going to work with him, had left him at the sur-
prise of our first fire and fled, in a terrible fright, to the
seaside, and had jumped into a canoe. Three more of
the rest did the same. I turned to Friday, and bade
him step forward and fire at them. He understood
me immediately, and, running about forty yards to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thought he had
killed them all, for I saw them all fall in a heap in the
boat, though I saw two of them up again quickly.
- However, he killed two of them, and wounded the
third, so that he lay in the bottom of the boat as if he
had been dead.

While Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim. Loos-
ing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him,
in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He answered
in Latin, "Christianus," but he was so weak and faint,
that he could scarcely- stand or speak. I took my
bottle out of my pocket and gave it to him, making
signsthat he should drink, which he did, and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked. him
what countryman he was, and he said, "Espagniole."
Being a little recovered, he let me lmow, by all the signs
he could possibly make, how much he was in my debt
for his deliverance. I said, in as good Spanish as I
could, "We will talk afterwards, but we must fight
now; if you have any strength left, take the pistol and
sword and lay about you." He took them very thank-
fully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but,
as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon his
murderers like a fury, and had cut' two of them in pieces
in an instant, for they were so surprised and frightened
that they could make no resistance, nor attempt to
escape.

I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword. I called to
Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from which
we had first fired, and bring the arms which lay there,
that had been discharged, which he quickly did. Then
giving him my musket, I sat down to load all the rest
again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a
fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of
the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have
killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The
Spaniard, who was very bold, though weak, had fought
this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head, but the savage, being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him
down, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,

when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted
the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, and shot
'him dead on. the spot.

Friday, accompanied by the Spaniard, now pursued
the fleeing savages with such deadly purpose that only
three of them were able to reach their canoe. These
were so badly wounded that I doubted if they would be
able to row long enough to reach their home. Even so,
I decided to follow, them, but when I was in the other
canoe I was surprised to find a poor savage lying there
alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard had been,
for the slaughter. He was almost dead with fear, not
knowing what the matter was, for he had not been
able to look up over the side of the boat; he was tied so
hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, that
bound him, and would have helped him up, but he
could not stand or speak, but groaned, most piteously,
believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in
order to be killed. When Friday came, I bade him
speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance, and pull-
ing out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram, which, with the news of his being delivered, re-
vived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday
came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would
have moved anyone to tears to have seen how Friday
kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sang, then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and head, and then
sang and jumped about again, like a distracted area---
ture. It was a good while before I could make him
speak to me, or tell me what was the matter, but when
he came a little to himself he, said that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me,
to see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of his father, and at the thought
of his being delivered from death. Nor indeed can I
describe half. the extravagance of his affection after
this, for he went into the boat and out of the boat a
great many times. When he went in to him, he would
sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom half an hour together, to
nourish it. Then he would take his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and
chafe and rub them with his hands.

Friday was so busy about his father that I could
not find it in my heart to take him off for some time,
but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and
pleased to the highest extreme. Then I asked him if
he had given his father any bread. He shook his
head, and said, "N one: ugly dog eat all up self." So
I gave him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried
on purpose. I also gave him a dram for himself, but
he would not taste it, but carried it to his father. I
had in my pocket also two or three bunches of my
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisins than I
saw him come out of the boat, and run away as if he
had been bewitched. He ran at such a rate (for he was
the swiftest--footed fellow that ever I saw) that he was
out of sight, as it were, in an instant, and though I
called and hallooed after him, it was all one. Away he
went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back
again, though not so fast as he went. As he came near
I found that his pace was slacker because he had some-
thing in his hand.

When he came to me, I found that he had been
quite home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his
father some fresh water and that he had brought two
more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father. It revived
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given
him, for he was just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called Friday to know
if there was any water left. He said, "Yes," and I
bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was as much
in want of it as his father, and I sent one of the cakes
that Friday had brought to the Spaniard, too, who was
indeed very weak. He was reposing himself upon a
green place, under the shade of a tree, and his limbs
were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the
rude bandage he had been tied with. .When I saw that,
upon Friday's coming up to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread .and began to
eat, I went up to him and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of grati-
- tude and thankfulness that could appear in any coun-
tenance. He was so weak, notwithstanding the way
that he had exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand upon his feet. He tried to do it two or
three times, but was really not able, his ankles were so
swelled and so painful to him. I bade him sit still,
and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them
with rum, ,as he had done his father's.

I observed that the poor, affectionate creature, every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while that he was
here, turned his head to look for his father. At last he
missed him. At once he started up, and without
speaking a word, flew with such swiftness to him, that
one could scarcely perceive his feet touching the ground
as he went, but when he reached him he found that he
had only laid himself down to case his limbs. So
Friday came back to me presently, and I then told him
to help the Spaniard to the boat. He took him upon
his back, and carried him beside his father in the boat,
and stepped out again, launched the boat off, and pad-
dled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though '
the wind blew pretty hard, too. He brought them
safely into our creek, and leaving them in the boat,
ran away to get the other canoe. As he passed me, I
spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
told me, "Go fetch more boat." So away he went, like
the wind, for surely never man or horse ran like him.
He had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I
got to it by land. He took me over, and then went to
help our new guests out of the boat, which he did,
but they were neither of them able to walk, so that
poor Friday knew not what to do.

At last, we made a kind of hand barrow to lay them
on, and Friday and I carried them up both together' \

256 RQBINSON CRUSOE

upon it between us. But when we got them to the out-
side of our wall, or fortification, we were at a worse loss
than before, for it'was impossible to get them over,
and I was resolved not to break it down. So we set to
work again, and in about two hours' time Friday and I
had made a very handsome tent, covered with old
sails and boughs of trees. It was in the space outside
our outer fence, and between that and the grove of
young wood which I had planted. Here we made
them two beds of such things as I had, good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to
cover them on each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects. It was a merry reflection which
I frequently made, how like a king I looked. First of
all, the whole country was my own mere property, so
that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Sec-
ondly, my people were perfectly subjected. I was the
absolute lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives
" to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion of it, for me. It was remarkable,
too, that I had but three subjects, and they were of
three different religions. My man Friday was a. Prot-
estant; his father was a pagan and a cannibal; the
Spaniard was a Papist. However, I allowed liberty of
conscience to all mysubjects.

As soon as I had made my two weak, rescued pris-
oners secure, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them. The first thing I did was to order Friday to take
a yearling goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed.
Then I cut off the hinder quarter, and chopping it
into small pieces, I set Friday to work boiling and
stewing. Thus we made them a very good dish of flesh
and broth, and we all enjoyed it and ate heartily.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Fri-
day to take one of the canoes and go and get our mus-
kets and other firearms from the place 'of battle. The
next day I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies
of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would
presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast. All these
things he punctually performed.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects. First I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thought of the escape of the savages
in that canoe, and Whether we might expect a return of -
them with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was that the savages in the boat never could '
live out the storm which blew that night they went off,
but must be drowned, or driven south to those other
shores, where they were sure to be devoured. As to
what they would do, if they came on shore, he said
that he knew not, but it was his opinion that they were
so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise and the fire, that he believed that
they would tell their people that they were all killed
by thunder and lightning, and not by the hand of

R
man, and that the two which appeared (namely, Fri-
day and I) were two heavenly spirits and furies come
down to destroy them, and not with weapons. And
this old savage was right, for though they escaped the
sea, they gave such dreadful accounts in their own
country (as I heard afterwards), that they never ven-
tured from that part to my island again.

~' But I was under continual apprehensions for some
time, and kept upon my guard, I and all my army,
for, as there were now four of us, I would have ven-
tured upon a hundred of them in the open field.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appear-
ing, the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to
take into consideration my former thoughts of a voyage
to the mainland. I was likewise assured by Friday's
father that I might depend upon good usage from
their nation, on his account, if I would go.

One day I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and learned that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese who had been cast away and had
made their escape to that side. The Spaniard told me
that they lived there at peace indeed with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voy-
age, and found that they were a Spanish ship, bound
from the Rio de la Plata to Havana. They had

. been directed to leave their loading there, which was
chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what Euro-
pean goods they could meet with there. They had
had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they took
out of another wreck. Five of their own men were
drowned when first their ship was lost and those that
escaped passed through infinite dangers and hazards,
and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to be devoured every moment.

He told me that they had some arms with them,
but they were perfectly useless, for they had neither
powder nor ball. The washing of the sea had spoiled
all their powder but a little, which they had used
when they first landed to provide themselves some
food.

I asked him if they had formed no design of making
an escape. He said that they had had many consulta-
tions about it, but having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, nor provisions of any kind, their counsels
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he
thought they would receive a proposal from me, which
might tend toward an escape, and, whether, if they
were all here, it might not be done.

He told me that they were all under the greatest
distress imaginable, and if I would undertake their
relief, they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
relieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage
and the Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he
had gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard
himself started an objection, which had so much pru-
dence in it on the one hand, and so much sincerity on
the other, that I could not but be well satisfied in it.
By his advice I put off the deliverance of his comrades
for at least half a year. He had been with us now about
a month, during which time I had let him see in what
manner I had provided, with the assistance of Provi-
dence, for my support. He saw what stock of corn
and rice I had laid up, which, while it was more than
sufficient for myself, was not sufficient, at least without
good husbandry, for my familymnow that it was in-
creased to the number of four. Much less would it be
sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, four-
teen, should come over. Least of all, would it be suffi-
cient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for
a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America.
So he told me that he thought that it would be more
advisable to let him and the two others dig and culti-
vate more land, as much asI could spare seed to sow.
Then, if we should wait another harvest, we might
have a supply of grain for his countrymen, when they

. should come. Want might be a temptation to them
to disagree, or not think themselves delivered, other-
wise than out of one difficulty into another.

The Spaniard's caution was so seasonable, and his
advice so good, that I could not but be very well pleased
with his proposal, as well as satisfied with his fidelity.
So we fell to digging, all four oflus, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnished with permitted. In about a
month's time, by the end of which it was seed time,
we had gotten enough land cured, and trimmed up
to sow twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars
of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could, and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day, for we took
our turns. By this means, we got about twenty young
kids to breed up with the rest, for, whenever we shot
the dam we saved the kids, and added them to our flock.
But, above all, the season for curing the grapes coming
on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to behung up
in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where
raisins are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty
barrels. These with our bread formed a great part of
our food.

It was now harvest, and our crop was in good order-
It was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but it was enough to answer our end. From
our twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and
threshed out more than two hundred and twenty
bushels, and an equal proportion of the rice, which
was store enough for our food until the next harvest,
though all the fourteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me. If we had been ready for a voyage, it would
very plentiftu have victualled our ship to have carried
us to any part of America. When we had thus stored
our grain, we fell to work to make great wicker baskets
in Which we kept it. The Spaniard was very handy

and dexterous at this part.
18
And now, having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over
to the mainland, to see what he could do with those
whOm he had left behind him there. I gave him strict
charge not to bring any man with him who would
not first swear, in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or
attack the person he should find in the island, who was
so kind as to send for him to deliver him. Each-man
was to swear that he would stand by and defend that
person against all such attempts, and wherever he
went, he would be entirely under and subjected to his
command. This should be put in writing, and signed
by all the men.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the
old savage went away in one of the canoes which they
came in, when they were brought as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a musket
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very careful of both, and not to use either
' of them but upon very urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty~
- seven years and some days. I gave them provisions
of bread and dried grapes, sufficient for themselves
for many days, and sufficient for all the countrymen
for about eight days. Wishing them a good voyage,
I let them go, after I had agreed with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which
I should know them at a distance before they came
on shore.

They went away, with a fair gale, on the day that
the moon was at the full, by my account, in the month
of October, as nearly as I could tell.

I had waited for them no less than eight days, when
a strange and unforeseen occurrence intervened, of
which the like has not, perhaps, been heard in history.574-1..

CHAPTER XIII

DELIVERAN CE

WAS fast- asleep in my hut one morning, when my
' man Friday came running in to me, and called
' aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are
come!" I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, went
out, as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my
little grove. I went without my arms, which it was
not <<my custom to do. I was surprised, when, turning
my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat, at about a
league and a half distance, standing in for the shore,
with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it. The
wind was blowing pretty fair tg bring them in. Also,
I observed that they did not" come from that side
which the. shore lay on, but from the southernmost
end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we
looked .for, and we did not know yet whether they were
friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in to get
my perspective glass, to see what I could make of them.
>> When I had taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the
' top of the hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive
of anything, to take my view plainer, without being dis-
covered. I had scarcely set my foot on the hill, when
my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor, at
about two leagues and a half distance from me, S. S. E.,
264I jumped up and went out through my little grove
but not more than a leagueand a half from the shore.
It appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the
boat an English longboat.

I had not been long in this position, when I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek
to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing. How-
ever, as they did not come quite far enough, they did
not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my
rafts, but ran their. boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very fortunate
for me. Otherwise they would have landed just, as I may
say, at my door, and would soon havebeaten me out of
my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all I had.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they . '

were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or ton
thought were Dutch, but they did not prove so. There
were, in all, eleven men. Three I found were unarmed,
and ('as I thought) bound. When the first four or
five of them had jumped on shore, they took these
three out of the boat as prisoners. One of the three I
could perceive was using the' most passionate gestures
of entreaty, affliction, and despair. The other two
. lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared con-
cerned indeed, but not so much as the first.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it could be.

Friday called out to me, in English, as well as he
could, "0 master, you see English mans eat prisoners _
as well as savage mans."
"Why," said I, "do you think they are going to
eat them, then?"

"Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them."

"No, no," said I, "Friday, I am afraid they will
murder them, indeed, but you may be sure that they
will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but expected every moment that the three
prisoners would be killed. Once I saw one of the villains
lift a great cutlass or sword to strike one of the poor
men, and I expected every moment to see him fall.
I wished heartily now for my Spaniard and the savage
that had gone with him. I wished, too, that I had a
way to come undiscovered within shot of the new-
comers, that I might rescue the three men, for the
sailors had no firearms that I saw.

After the three men had been outrageously used
by the insolent seamen, I saw that the fellows ran
scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see the
country. I observed, also, that the three other men
had liberty to go where they pleased, but that they
sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and
looked like men in despair.

It was just at the top of high water when these
people came on shore, and they stood parleying with the
prisoners they brought, and they rambled about to
see what kind of place they were in so long that they
carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, and the water
had ebbed considerably away, leaving the boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards had drunk a little too much brandy and had
fallen asleep. However, one of them wakening sooner
than the other, and finding the boat too fast aground
for him to stir her, hallooed for the rest, who were
straggling about. Upon this they all soon came to
the boat, but it was past all their strength to launch
her, for the boat was very heavy, and the shore on that
side was a soft, oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
Under these circumstances, like true seamen, who are,
perhaps, the least of all mankind given to forethought,
they gave it up, and away they strolled about the
country again. I heard one of them say- aloud to an-
other (calling them off from the boat), "Why, let her
alone, Jack, can't ye! She'll float next tide." By
this I was fully confirmed what countrymen they
were.

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing that I had
to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first.
I ordered Friday also to load himself with arms. I
took myself two fowling pieces, and I gave him three
muskets. My figure indeed was very fierce; I had my
formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I
have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design not to have made any attempt
until it was dark, but about two o'clock, in the heat of
the day, I found that they had all gone straggling into. V.-7_-.-'lfi

268 ROBINSON CRUSOE

the woods, and, as I thought, had all laid down to
sleep. The three, poor, distressed men, too anxious
for their condition to get any sleep, had, however,
sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a
quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of
sight of any of the rest. ~

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition. Immediately
I marched toward them, with my man Friday at a good
distance behind me. He was as formidably armed as
I, but he did not make quite so staring a specter-like
figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I
could, and then, before any of them saw me, I called
aloud to them, in Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?"

They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, so
I spoke to them in English.

"Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me;
perhaps you may have a friend near you when you do
not expect it."

"He must be sent directly from heaven, then,"
said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off
his hat at the same time, "for our condition is past the
help of man."

"All help is from heaven, sir," said I, "but can you
put a. stranger in the way how to help you? You seem
to be in some great distress. I saw you when you
landed, and when you seemed to make application to
the brutes that came with you, I saw one lift his
sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned,
"Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real man or an
angel?"

"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I. "If God
had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come
better clothed, and armed after another manner, than
you see me. Pray lay aside your fears. I am a man, an
Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you see. I
have one servant only, but we have arms'and ammu-
nition. Tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your
case?"

"Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you,
while our murderers are so near, but, in short, sir, I
was commander of that ship. My men have mutinied
against me. They have been with difficulty prevailed
upon not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on
shore in this desolate place, with these two men with
me, one my mate, the other a passenger. We expected ,
to perish here, believing the place to be uninhabited.
Indeed, we know not yet what to think of it."

"Where are those brutes, your enemies?" said I.
"Do you know where they are gone?"

"There they are, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
trees. ' 'My heart'trembles for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak. If they have, they will murder us all."
"Have they any firearms?" I asked.

He answered, "They had only two pieces, and one
which they left in the boat."

"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see
they are asleep. It is an easy thing to kill them all,
but shall we rather take them prisoners?"

He told me that there were two desperate villains
among them that it was scarcely safe to show any
mercy to, but if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which
they were. He told me that he could not, at that
distance, describe them, but he would obey my orders
in anything I would direct.

"Well," said I, "let us retreat out of their View
or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve
farther."

So they willingly went back with me, till the woods

lcovered us from them.

"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me?"

He anticipated my proposals, by telling me that
both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly
directed and commanded by me in everything. If
the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with
me, in whatsoever part of the world I would send
him. The two others said the same.

"Well," said I, "my conditions are but two. In
the first place, while you stay on this island with me,
you will not pretend to any authority here. If I put
arms in your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give

. them up to me. You will do no harm to me or mine,
upon this island, and, in the meantime, you will be
governed by my orders. In the second place, if the
ship is, or may be, recovered, you will carry me and
my man to England passage free.' '

He gave me all the assurances that the invention
and faith of man could devise, that he would comply
with these most reasonable demands, and, besides,
would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it, upon all
occasions, as long as he lived. '

"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball. Tell me next what you
think is proper to be dime."

He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he
was able, but offered to be wholly guided by me. I
told him that Ithought it was hard venturing any-
thing, but the best method I could think of was to fire
upon them at once, as they lay. If any were not killed
at the first volley, and offered to submit, we might
save them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence
to direct the shot.

He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it, but that those two were in-
corrigible villains, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped we should be
undone still, for they would go on board and bring the
whole ship's company, and destroy us all.
"Well, then," said I, "necessity legitimates my ad-
vice; for it is the only way to save our lives."

However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood,
' I told him they should go themselves, and manage as
they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet. I asked him if they were the men who, he
had said, were the heads of the mutiny.

' ' He said, "No."

_ "Well, then," said I, "you may let them escape.
Providence seems to have awakened them on ,purpose
to save themselves. Now," said I, "if the reSt escape
you, it is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had
given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his
two comrades with him, each man a piece in his hand.
The two men who were with him, going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was
awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried
out to the rest. It was too late then, for the moment
he cried out, the two men fired, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their
shotat the men they knew that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded, but,
not being dead, he started up upon his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other. The captain, stepping
to him, told him that it was too late to cry for help,
he should call upon God to forgive his villainy, and,
with that word, knocked him down with the stock of
his musket, so that he never spoke more.

There were three more in the company, and one of
them was also slightly wounded. By this time I was
come, and when they saw their danger, and that it
' was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The
captain told them he would spare their lives if they
would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of
the treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear
, to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and after-
? wards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence
they came. They gave him all the protestations of
their. sincerity that could be desired, and he was will-
ing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was.
not against. However, I obliged him to keep them
bound, hand and foot, while they were upon the island.

While this was doing I sent Friday, with the
captain's mate, to the boat, with orders to secure her,
.and bring away the cars and sail, which they did.
By and by, three straggling men, that were parted
from the rest, came back again upon hearing the
guns fired, and seeing their captain, who was before
their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted
to being bound also.

It now remained that the captain and I should in-
quire into one another's circumstances. I began first.
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
amazed attention. He was particularly astounded
at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition, and, indeed, as my story
is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.
When he reflected from thence upon himself, and how
I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to
save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could
not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartment, leading them
in just where I came out, at the top of the house. I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and
showed them all the contrivances I had made during
my long stay in this place. '

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing, but, above all, the captain admired my forti-
fication, and how perfectly I had concealed my re-
treat with a grove of trees. They had been planted
now nearly twenty years. The trees grew much faster
than in England, so that it had become a little wood,
and so thick that it was impassable except at that
one side where I had reserved my little winding passage
into it. This I told him was my castle and my residence,
but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon- occasion, and I
Would show him that too another time. At present,
however, our business was to consider how to recover
. the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but he told
me that he was perfectly at a loss what measures to
take, because there were still six-and-twenty. hands on
board. They had entered into a cursed conspiracy,
by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
and they would be hardened in it now by desperation,
and would carry it on, knowing that if they were
captured they should be brought to the gallows as
soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies. Therefore there would be no use attacking
them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found that it was a very rational conclusion. It oc-
curred to me, 'too, that, in a little while, the ship's
crew, wondering what had become of their comrades,
and of the boat, would certainly come on shore, in
their other boat, to look for them. Then, perhaps,
they might come armed, and be too strong for us.
This, the captain agreed, was likely.

Upon this, I told him that the first thing we had
to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach,
so that they might not carry her off, and, taking every-
thing out of her, leave her so useless as not to be fit
to float. Accordingly, we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever
else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and
another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder,
and a great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvas. The
sugar was five or six pounds. All this was very wel-
come to me, especially the sugar, which I had been
without many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore, we
knocked a great hole in her bottom, so that if they
came strong enough to master us, yet they could not
carry off the boat. ,

Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we
could recover the ship, but my View was, that if they
went away without the boat, I did not much question
to make her fit again to carry us away .to the Leeward
Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards on
my way. '

While we were thus preparing our plans, we first,
by main strength, heaved the boat up on the beach, so
high that the tide would not float her off at highwwater
mark. Besides, we broke a hole in her bottom too big
to be quickly stopped. While we sat musing what we
should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her
make a waft* with her ancientflL as a signal for the boat,
to come on board. When no boat stirred, they fired
several times, making other signals.

' At last, when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found that the boat did not stir,
we saw them (by the help of my glasses) hoist another
boat off, and row toward the shore. We found, as
they approached, that there were no less than ten men
in her, and that they had firearms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full View of them as they came. The captain
knew the persons and characters of all the men in the

*Waft is 8. nautical term, meaning a signal made with a flag or a
pennant.

tAncient is an archaic word, meaning a flag flown on a ship.
boat, of whom he said there were three very honest
fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy
by the rest, being overpowered and frightened. As
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer
among them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous
as any of the ship's crew, and were, no doubt, made
desperate in their new enterprise.

We had, upon the first sign of the boat's coming
from the ship, separated our prisoners and secured
them effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain
was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday,
and one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where
they were remote enough, and out of danger of being -
heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of the
woods. They left them bound, but gave them pro-
visions, and promised them, if they continued there
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two,
but they assured them that if they attempted their
escape, they should be put to death without mercy.
The prisoners promised faithfully to bear their con-
finement with patience. .

The other prisoners had better usage. Two of
them were kept bound indeed, because the captain did
not like to trust them, but the other two were taken
into my service, upon their captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us.

As soon as the newcomers got to the place where

their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach,
19
and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them,
which I was glad to see. I had been afraid that they
would leave the boat, and anchor some distance from
the shore, with some hands in her to guard her, so
that we should not be able to seize the boat.

When they were on shore they all ran to the other
boat, and it was easy to see that they were greatly sur-
prised to find her stripped, and a great hole in the bot-
tom. After this, they set up a great shout, but it was all
to no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring, and
fired a volley of their small arms, which indeed we
heard, and the echoes made the woods ring, but it
was all one. Those in the cave we were sure could not
hear, and those in our keeping, though they heard it
well enough, yet dared give no answer to them.

They were so surprised at this, as they told us after-
wards, .that, they resolved to go on board their ship
again, and let their friends there know that the men
were all murdered, and the long boat staved. Ac-
cordingly, they immediately launched their boat again,
and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up
for lost. In that case, he would still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered. Be-
fore long, however, he was as much frightened the
other way.

They had not put off far with the boat, when we per-
ceived them all coming on shore again. They left
three men in the boat, and the rest went up into the
country to look for their fellows. This was a great
disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss what
to do. Our seizing those seven men on shore would
be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape, be
cause the others would then row away to the ship, and
the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail,
and so our hope of recovering the ship would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present. The seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat
put her off to a good distance from the shore, and
came to an anchor, to wait for them, so that it was
impossible for us to come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching toward the top of the little hill, under which
my dwelling lay, and we could see them plainly, though
they could not perceive us. When they came to the
brow of the hill, where they could see a great way into
the valleys and woods which lay toward. the northeast
part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted
till they were weary, and then they sat down to consider
the situation. Had they gone to sleep there, as the
other party did, they would have done the job for us,
but they were too full of apprehension of danger to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what
the danger was.

The captain suggested that perhaps they would
all fire a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows
hear, and then we could all sally upon them just at the
juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them
without bloodshed. I liked the proposal, proiIided it
was done while we were near enough to come up to
them before they could load their pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a
long time, very irresolute' what course to take. At
length I told him there was nothing to be done, in my
opinion, till night. Then, if they did not return to
the boat, perhaps we might use some stratagem to
get those in the boat on shore.

We waited a great while very impatiently. When
we finally saw them all start up, and march toward
the sea we were uneasy. It seems that they had such
dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of
the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship
again, give their companions up for lost, and so go on
their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them going toward the
shore, I imagined that they had given up their search,
and were going back. The captain was ready to sink
when I told him my thoughts, but I presently thought
of a stratagem to bring them back again, which an-
swered my end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, toward the place where Friday
was rescued, and at about half a mile distance, to
halloo as loud as they could. As soon as they heard
. the seamen answer them, they were to return it, and
then, keeping out of sight, take a round, and wheel
about again to me by such ways as I directed.

The men were just going into the boat, when Friday
and the mate hallooed, and they presently heard them,
and answering, ran along the shore westward, toward
the voice they heard. They were stopped by the creek
--the water being up, they could not get over--and
called for the boat to come and set them over, as, in-
deed, I had expected.

When they had set themselves over, I observed that
they took one of the three men out of her, and left
only two there. The boat they fastened to a stump of a
little tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for, Leaving Friday and
the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest
with me, and crossing the creek out of the sight of the
men, we surprised them before they were aware. One
of them was lying on the shore between sleeping and
waking, and, as he was starting up, the captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him and knocked him down.
He then called to the man in the boat to yield or he
was a dead man.

Very few arguments were needed to persuade a single
man to yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down. Besides, this was, it seems,
one of the three men who were not so hearty in the
mutiny as the rest of the crew. Therefore he was easily
persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join
very sincerely with us.

In the meantime Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one wood
to another, till they not only heartily tired them, but
left them where they were sure they could not get back
before it was dark. Indeed Friday and the mate were
heartily tired themselves also by the time they came
back to us. -

It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before the men came back to their boat. We could
hear the foremost of them long before they quite came
up, calling to those behind to come along, and could
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not able to come any faster, which was
very welcome news to us.

At length they came up to the boat, but it is impos-
sible to express their confusion when they found the
boat fast aground in the creek, and their two men
gone. We could hear them telling one another that
they had gotten into an enchanted island." They were
sure that either there were inhabitants in it, and they
should all be murdered, or else there weredevils or
spirits in it, and they should be carried away and de-
voured.

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names, but got no answer. After some time,
We could see by the little light there was that they were
running about like men in despair. Sometimes they
would go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves,
then they would come on shore again, and walk about.

My men would have fallen upon them in the dark,
' but I was willing to spare them, and kill as few of them
as I could. I was unwilling to risk the killing of any
of our men, knowing that the others were well armed.
I resolved to wait and make sure of them, and drew
my ambuscade nearer. I ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands and knees, and get as
near them as they possibly could before they offered
' to fire.

They had not been long in that position when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader, and had
now shown himself the most dispirited of all the rest,
walked toward them with two more of their crew.
'The captain was so eager at having the principal rogue
so much in his power, that he could hardly have pa-
tience to let him come near enough to be sure of him,
for he had only heard his voice before. When they came
nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their
feet, let fly at them.

The boatswain was killed on the spot, the next was
shot through the body, and fell just by him, though
he did not die till an hour or two after, and the third
ran for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men: I,
myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general;
the captain and his two men; the three prisoners of
war, whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not see our number. I made the man that
they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, call
them by name, to see if he could bring them to parley,
which fell out just as we desired.

He called out as loud as he could to one of them,
"Tom Smith! Tom Smith!"

Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that Rob-
inson?" for it seems that he knew his voice.

The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are
all dead men this moment!"

"Whom must we yield to? Where are they?" says
Tom Smith again.

"Here they are," says he. "Here is our captain,
and fifty men with him, have been hunting you this
two hours. The boatswain is killed, Will Frye is
wounded, and I am a prisoner. If you do not yield,
you are all lost."

"If they will give us quarter, then," says Tom Smith,
"we will yield.' '

"I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield," says
Robinson.

So he asked the captain, and the captain himself
= then called out, "You, Smith, you know my voice; if
you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you shall all have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter! What have I done? They
have all been as bad as I!" This was not true, for it
seems that this Will Atkins was the first man that laid
hold of the captain when they first mutinied. How-
ever, the captain told him that he must lay down his
arms at discretion, and trust to the govemor's mercy.
By this he meant me, for they called me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged
their lives. I sent the man that had parleyed with
them, and two more, who bound them all. Then my
great army of fifty men, which, with those three, were
in all but eight, came up and seized them all, and
their boat. I kept myself and one more out of sight,
for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to
think of seizing the ship. The captain, now that he
had leisure to parley with them, expostulated with
them upon the villainy of their practices with him, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and dis-
tress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. '

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them that the gov-
ernor was an Englishman, and that he might hang
them all there if he pleased. However, since he had
given them quarter, he supposed he would send them
to England, except Atkins, whom he was commanded '-
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, be-
cause he would be hanged in the morning. Though
this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired
effect. Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain
to intercede with the governor for his life, and all the
rest begged of him, for God's sake, not to be sent to
England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our de-
liverance had come, and that it would be a most easy
thing to make these fellows help in getting possession
of the ship. So I retired in the dark from them, that
they might not see what kind of governor they had,
and called the captain to me. When I called, as at a
good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and to say to the captain, "Captain, the com-
mander calls for you," and presently the captain re-
plied, "Tell his excellency I am just coming." So they
all believed that the commander was just by with his
fifty men. '

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which pleased him. We
resolved to put it in execution the next morning.

But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
sure of success, I told him that we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins, and
two more of the worst of them, and send them bound
to' the cave where the others lay. So Friday, and the
two men who came on shore with the captain, con-
veyed them to the cave as to a prison. The others I
ordered to my bower, where they were bound, and left
secure enough.
To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them, to try them and
tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or
not, to go on board and surprise the ship. He talked
to them of the injury done him, and of the condition
they were brought to. He reminded them that though
the governor had given them quarter for their lives, as

to the present action, yet if they were sent to England,

they would all be hanged in chains. He ended by tell-
ing them that if they would join in so just an attempt
as to recover the ship, he would have the governor's
promise for their pardon.

Anyone may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition. They
fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised,
with solemn vows that they would be faithful to him
to the last drop, and that they would owe their lives
to him, and would go with him all over the world,
and would own him for a father as long as they
lived.

"Well," says the captain, "I must go and tell the
governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring

him to consent to it."
I So he brought me an account of the temper he found
them in, and that he verily believed they would be
faithful. However, that we might be very secure, I
told him he should go back again, and choose out
five of them, and tell them that they should see he did
not want men; but that he would take out those five
to be his assistants, and that the governor would
keep the other two, and the three that were sent prisoners
to the castle (my cave), as hostages for the fidelity of
those five. If they proved unfaithful in the execution,
the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon
the shore.

. , This looked severe, and convinced them that the
governor was in earnest. However, they had no way.
left them but to accept it, and it was now'the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to per-
suade .the other five to do their duty. Our strength
was now thus ordered for the expedition: first, the
captain, his mate, and the passenger; second, the two
prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
characters from the captain, I had given their liberty,
and whom I had trusted with arms; third, the other
two, whom I had kept bound in my bower, who were
now released; fourth, these five, just released. There
were twelve in all, besides the five whom we kept in the
cave, as hostages for the fidelity of the others.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with those hands on board the ship. As for me and my
man Friday, I did not think it proper for us to stir,
having seven men left behind. It was employment
enough for us to keep them apart, and supply them with
victuals. '

. As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast, but Friday went twice 'a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries. I made the other two Carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them that I was the person
whom the governor had ordered to look after them, and
that it was the governor's pleasure they should not stir
anywhere but by my direction. If they did, they
should be brought to the castle and be laid 1n irons.
In that way we never suffered them to see me as gov-
ernor. I appeared as another person, and spoke of
the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon
all occasions. .

The captain now had no difficulty before him but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with
four other men. He himself, with his mate and five
mere, went in the other. They contrived their business
very well, for they came up to the ship about midnight.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them that he had brought
off the men and the boat, but that it was a long time
before they had found them. He held them in chat till
they came to the ship's side, when the captain and
the mate, entering first with their arms, immediately
knocked down the second mate and the carpenter
with the butt-end of their muskets, being very faith-
fully seconded by their men. They secured all the rest
that were upon the main and quarter-decks, and began
to fasten the hatches to keep them down who were be-
low when the men from the other boat entering the
forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
scuttle which went down into the cook room, making
three men they found there prisoners. When this
was done, and all 'safe upon the deck, the captain or-
dered the mate with three men to break into the round-
house, where the new rebel captain lay. He, having
taken alarm and gotten up, now stood with two men
and a boy, having firearms in their hands. When the
mate with a crowbar split open the door, the new
captain and his men fired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musket ball, which broke
his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody.

The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into
the roundhouse, wounded as he was, and, with his
pistol, shot the new captain through the head. The
bullet entered at his mouth, and came out again be-
hind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word again.
Upon this the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
effectually, without any more lives lost. As soon as
the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, which was thesignal agreed upon
with me, to give me notice of his success, which, you
may be sure, I was glad to hear. I had sat watching
upon the shore for it till two o'clock in the morning.

Having heard the signal plainly, I laid me down,
and being very much fatigued, I fell sOund asleep.

Shortly I was awakened, by the noise of a gun, and,
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of
"Governor," and presently I knew the captain's voice.
I climbed up to the top of the hill, and there he stood.
Pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.

"My dear friend and deliverer," said he, "there's
your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all
that belongs to her." ' .

I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode, about
half a mile off the shore, for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the
weather being fair, had brought her to an anchor
just against the mouth of a little creek. The tide
being up, they had brought the pinnace in near the
place where I had first landed my rafts, and so landed
just at my door.

I was, at first, ready to sink down with surprise,
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither I pleased to go. He perceived
my situation, and immediately pulled a bottle out of
his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he
had brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I
sat down upon the ground, and it was a good while
before I could speak to him.

After some time I came to myself, and then I em-
braced him in my turn, as my deliverer, and we re-
joiced together. I told him that I looked upon him as
a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the
whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders.
Such things as these were the testimonies we had of a
secret hand of Providence governing the world, and an
evidence that the eyes of an infinite Power could search
into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased. I did not forget
to return thanks to God for all his mercies.

When we had talked a while, the captain told me
that he had brought me some little refreshment, such
as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who had
been so long his masters, had not plundered him of.
Upon this he called aloud to his men, and told them
to bring the things ashore that were for the governor,
and it was a splendid present. First, he had brought
me a case of bottles full of cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, two pounds of excellent to-
bacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six
pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-
weight of biscuit. He brought me also a box of sugar,
a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, \and two bottles
of lime juice, and an abundance of other things. But,
besides these, and What was a thousand times more
useful to me, he brought me six clean, new shirts, six
very good neckcloths, two pairs of gloves, one pair of
shoes, a hat, one pair of stockings, and a very good
suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn very
little. I can assure you that the clothes felt very awk-
ward and uneasy upon me at first.

After all these things were brought into my little
apartment, we began to consult what was to be done
with the prisoners we had, and whether we might
venture to take them away with us or not, especially
two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and re
fractory to the last degree. The captain said that he
knew they were such rogues that there was no trusting
them. If he did carry them away, it must be in irons,
as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice, at the
first English colony he could come to." Upon this, I
told him that I would undertake to bring the two men
he spoke of to make it their own request that he should
leave them upon the island, of which the captain said
he should be very glad.

I accordingly sent for them, and entered seriously
into discourse with them upon their circumstances.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say "but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them that I
knew not what mercy to show them, for, as for my-
self, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go to Eng-
land. The captain would not carry them to England,
except as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny and
running away with the ship. The consequence of this,
they must needs know, would be the gallows. I could
not tell which was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the island. If they desired
that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had some
inclination to give them their lives, if they could shift
on shore. They seemed very thankful for it, and said
that they would rather venture to stay there than to
be carried to England to be hanged. '

I then told them that I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the way
of making it easy for them. Accordingly I gave them
the whole histgry of the place, and of my coming to it.
I showed them my fortifications, the way I made my
bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes, and in a
word, all that was necessary to make it easy for them.
I told them the story of the Spaniards that were to be
expected, for whom I left a letter, and made them prom-
ise to treat them in common with themselves.

I left them five muskets, three fowling pieces, and
three swords. I had about a barrel and a half of
powder, which I left them. I gave them a description
of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk
and fatten them, to make both butter and cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story. I
told them that I would prevail with the captain to
leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some
garden seeds, which I told them I would have been
very glad of. Also I gave them the bag of peas which
the captain had brought me, and bade them be sure
to sow and increase them.

Having done this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. The next morning two of the
five men came swimming to the ship's side, and making
a most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged
to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they should
be murdered. ' '

The captain pretended to have no power without
me, but, after some difficulty, and after their solemn
promises of amendment, they were taken on board,
and were soundly whipped, after which they proved
very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men,
with which the captain, at my intercession, sent their '
chests and clothes, which they were very thankful for.
I also encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay
in my way to send any vessel to take them in, I would
not forget them.

When I quitted this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my um-
brella, and one of my parrots. Also I did not forget to
take the money I had had laid by me so long useless.

And thus I left the island the 19th of December, by
the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been
upon it twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen
days. I was delivered from the second captivity the
same day of the month that I had made my escape
from among the Moors at Sallee. '

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land, the llth of June, in the year 1687, having been
thirty-five years absent.

-' When I came to England I was as perfect a stranger
as if I had never been known there. My benefactor
and faithful steward, with whom I had left my money
in trust, was still alive, but had had great misfortunes
in the world. She had become a widow the second
time, and was in very low circunistances. ' I made her
easy as to what she owed me, assuring her that I would
give her no trouble. On the contrary, in gratitude to
her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her
as much as my little stock would afford, which at that
time would indeed allow me to do but little for her.
I assured her that I would never forget her former
kindness to me, nor did I forget her when I had suffi-
cient to help her at a later time.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire, but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
extinct, except two sisters, and two' of the children of
one of my brothers, and, as I had been long ago given
over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me, so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or
assist me, and the little money I had would not do
much for me when it came to settling in the world.

. I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I
did not expect. The master of the ship, whom I had
so happily delivered, gave a very handsome account
to the owners of the manner in which I had saved the
lives of the men and the ship. Accordingly, they in-
vited me to meet them and some other merchants
concerned, and all together they made me a very
handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present
of almost two hundred pounds sterling,
But, after I had reflected upon the circumstances
of my life, and how little way this would go toward
settling me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon,
and see if I could get any information of the state of
my plantation in the Brazils, and of what had become
of my partner, who, I supposed, had for some years
now given me up for dead.

With this view, I took shipping for Lisbon, where
I arrived the following April. My man Friday ac-
companied me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proved a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found by inquiry, and to
my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the captain
of the ship, who first took me up at sea, off the shore
of Africa. He had grown old and had left the sea.
His son now captained the ship, and still carried on
the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and
I scarcely knew him, but he soon recollected me when I
told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired after my plantation and my
partner. The old man told me that he had not been
in the Brazils for about nine years, but that he could
assure me that, when he came away, my partner was
living, but the trustees, whom I had appointed with
him to watch over my part, were both dead. However,
he believed that I should have a very good account of the
improvement of the plantation. In the general belief
of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had
given in the account of the produce of my plantation
to the procurator fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case
I never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-
thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex-
pended for the benefit of the poor, and for the conver-
sion of the Indians to the Catholic faith. If I appeared,
or anyone for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be
restored, except the improvement, or annual produc-
tion, which, as he said, had been distributed to char-
itable uses, and he thought could not be restored.

I was a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that
the trustees should thus dispose of my effects, when
they knew that I had made my will, and made him,
the Portuguese captain, my universal heir. He told me
that that was true, but as there was no proof of my
being dead, he could not act as executor, until some
certain account should come of my death. Besides,
he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so re<<
mote. It was true that he had registered my will and
put in his claim, and, could he have given any account
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by
procuration, and taken possession of my ingenio (the
sugar house), and given his son, who was now in the
Brazils, orders to do it.

The old man then asked me if he should tell me how

I to make my claim to the plantation. I told him that
I thought to go over to it myself. He said that I might
do so if I pleased, but that if I did not, there were ways
enough to secure my right, and immediately to ap-
propriate the profits to myself. As there were ships
in the river of Lisbon just ready to go to the Brazils,
he made me enter my name in a public register, with
his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive,
and that I was the same person who took up the land
for planting the said plantation at first. This being
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration
affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter of his
writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place.
He then proposed my staying with him till an account
came of the return.

Never was anything more honorable than the pro-
ceedingshupon this procuration. In less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors
of my trustees, the merchants for whose account I
went to sea, and, as the Brazil ships all come in fleets,
the same ships which brought my letters brought my
goods, and the effects were safe in the Tagusbefore the
letters came to my hands. By these it appeared that
I was now master, all of a sudden, of more than five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an es-
tate, as I might call it, in the Brazils, which brought
in more than a thousand pounds a year, as safe as any
landed estate in England. ,In a word, I was in a con-
dition which I could scarcely understand, and I did
not know how to compose myself for its enjoyment.

The first thing I did was to recompensemy original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been chari-
table to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning,
and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that was

sent me. I told him that, next to the providence of
Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing to
him, and that it now lay on me to reward him. So I
sent for a notary, and caused him to draw a procuration,
empowering the captain to be my receiver of the annual
profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner
to account to him, and make the returns by the usual
fleets to him, in my name. I added a clause at the
end, making a grant of one hundred moidores* a year
to him during his life, and fifty moidores a year to
his son after him, for his life. Thus I requited my
old man.

After a time I returned to England and I took my
two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into
my care. The elder having something of his own, I
brought up as a gentleman, and gave him a settle-
' ment of some addition to his estate after my decease.
The other I put out to the captain of a ship, and, after
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him
to sea. And this young fellow afterwards drew me in.
old as I was, to farther adventures myself.

In the meantime I in part settled myself here.
For, first of all, I married, and had three children, two
sons and one daughter.

Friday lived with me and we never forgot our days

* A moidore is a former Portuguese gold coin.
upon the iSland. For many years the sea called to me
day and night and often I longed for new adventures.

Thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune
and adventure--a life of Providence's checker work
and of a variety which the world will seldom be able
to show the like of. It began foolishly, but it closed
much more happily than any part of it 'ever gave me
leave so much as to hope for.72:33.. U15 HAS BEE '
Hcmnm :3: THE [1111\\\\,1/,.
UNIVERSITY or FLORIDA

Ro binsonClm main

LIBRARIES 82350314"): c2

\.[||[|1[[[[[[|[[[|1[[|[[11111111111111 [11111111111111 / :g/

3 1252 [13117 0571]

341%
gr: /
11.34.: I' C." '3 1' t A:- .0"...

. w a. '0 .O 1 CL". 1
. 334.9 3.3.:vuloflc $3.. A... .J. .
C

man...>>

(I? .

Q.
d