iflili

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE

BY

DANIEL DEFOE

 

WITH A PORTRAIT, AND ONE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS
BY J. D. WATSON

ENGRAVED 0N WOOD BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEI;

LONDON
GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS, LIMITED
BROADWAY, LUDGATE IIILL
GLASGOW, MANCHESTER, AND NEW Yoax
:89:~1M-EMOIR OF DE Eon]

 

Dem Foe, or, who subsequently styled himself (though at what time and
on what occasion is not known), De Foe, was born in the year 1661, in the parish
of St. Giles, Cripplegate, London, where his father, James Foe, followed the
trade of butcher: and these few barren facts constitute all that is 'ncw mthenti-
cslly known ofi'the origin of the anther of Rosmsox Cnusos. Mr. Wilson. in his
" Lite and 'fiines of Daniel De Foe,"--o. work abounding with curious. and
minute information on the period of a which it tweets, says :--"'He had some
collateral relatives, to whom-he alludes occasionally in his writings, but with too
muchbrsvitytoaseerteinthedegreeofkindred".

At an early age, De Fee is said to have shown that vivacity of humour, and
thstindomihbhspidtofindependencqthst remeinedwithhimthmnghafier life:
"makingssunshineinthe shady place" of aprison, sndsrminghim'esthe
champion of truth sndhumanityinthe most perilous times. The parentsof De'Foe'
were nonconfonnish, and his educationwas consonant to the practice of their faith.
Family religionformsdaneesentislpartoiits-discipline; unditwas made mutter
ofconscienceto instructthe children ofet'smilyand its dependenteintheirsocial,
moral, and religious duties. y

Theenemies of De Foe vainlyendesvoured to sink his reputationbyxep're-
senting him sshsvingbesn bred a tradesmen; wehave, however,hisownessurance
that he was educated for the ministry, although he does not with why his desti-
natiocnwussltered. Hewasatellevamtsplscedhyhis fatherst eDissenting
academy st Remington Green, under the direction of the Reverend Charles Morton,
a men of learning and a judicious teacher, who was subsequently defended by his
pupil, fiom some aspereions that had been cast uponhis character byan ungrateful
scholnrwhohaddesertedtotheChui-ch. _ . '

0f DeFoe'sprogreuundei-ML Morton, itis impossi'hlenowto speskwith'auy
certainty. Hetellsnsinoneof his "Reviews" thsth'ehsdbeen master of five
lsngnsges, and that he had studied the mathematics, nmnlphilosophy, loge,
geography, and history. De Foe was, moreover, one of the few who, in those days,
studied politics as a science. He went through s complete eourse'ot' theology, and
his knuwledgeofeeclesiasticslhistory was also considerable. Nevertheleu, he was
attacked by. party malice as " an illiterate person without education" To this he
calmly makes answer :---" Those gentlemen who repuosch my learning to applaud"
their own, shallhnveitprovedthst I havemoreleaming than eitherof them---.
becauseI have more manners."' Hesdds, "I think I owe thisjusticetomy'

Vmom 03' DE FOE.

excellent hither still living (1705), and in whose behalf I fully testify, that if I
am a blockhead, it is nobody's fault but my own."

At one-and-twenty, De Foe commenced the vocation--most perilous in his day
--.of author ; at which he laboured through good and. through evil report, with
great honour to himself, and enduring benefit to mankind, for half a century. His

first publication was a lampooning answer to L'Estrange's " Guide to the Inferior
C ," and was intended to satirize the prevalent High Church notions of the
day.

When the Duke of Monmouth landed at Lyme, in the year 1685, De Foe was
among those who joined the standard of that hapless nobleman At the age of
found-twenty, we see De Foe a soldier, as ready with his sword as prompt with
his pen, in the cause ot' rational liberty. Of Monmouth, De Foe moms to have
had some previous knowledge, having often seen him at Aylesburyraces, where
the duke rode his own horses, a circumstance alluded to by our author in his
"Tour." De Foe had the good ibrtune to escape the vengeance visited upon so
many of the duke's supporters, and retumed in safety to London ; where, leaving
the stormy regon of politics he now directed his attention to trade. The nature
of his business, according to his own account, was that of a hose-tactor, or
the middle-man between the manufacturer "and the retail- hosier. This concern he
carried on for some years, in Freeman's-court, Cornhill; Mr. Chalmers says, from
1685 to 1695. On the 26th of January, 1687-8, having claimed his freedom by

birth, he was admitted a liveryman of London. In the Chamberlain's book, his
name was written " Daniel Foe."

When the Revolution took place, Do Foe was a resident in Tooting, where he
was the first person who attempted to form the Dissenters in the neighbourhood
into a regular congregatw' 11. He was an ardent worshi per of the Revolution,
and annually commemorated the 4th of November as a day) of deliverance

The commercial speculations of De Foe, though at first prosperous, were
ultimately unsuccessful. That they were of a varied character, is evident from the
fact of his having engaged with partners in the Spanish and Portuguese trade. .It
is very clear, from a passage in his" Review," that he had been a merchantsdven--
turer. In the number for January 27; 1711, he alludes to an old Spanish proverb,
" which," says he, "I learnt when I was in that country." It further appears,
that while residing there, he made himself master of the language. De Foe's
losses by shipwreck it is supposed must have been very considerable. In allusion
to his misfortunes, Mr. Chalmers oburves :--"With the usual imprudence of
genius, he was carried into companies who were gratified by his wit. He spent
those hours with a small society for the cultivation of polite learning, which he
ought to have employed in the calculations of the counting-house; and, being
obliged to abscond from his creditors in 1692, he naturally attributed those mis-
fortunes to the war, which were probably owing to his own misconduct. An angry
creditor took out a commission of bankruptcy, which wu soon superseded, on the
petition of those to whom he was most indebted, who accepted a wmposition
on his single bond. This he punctually paid, by the efi'orts of unwearied dili-
gence; but some of these creditors, who had been thus satisfied, falling afierwards

. into distress themselves, De Foe voluntarily paid them their whole claim, being
then in rising circumstances, in consequence of King William's flavour." On being
subsequently reproached by Lord Haversham for mercenary conduct, De Foe tells.

V1unison: 0! DE 30!.

him, in 1705, that, "with a numerous hmily, and no help but his own industry,
hehad'forccdhisway,withundiscoursgeddiligence,throughasetof misfortunes,
and reduced his debts, exclusive of composition, from seventeen thousand to lea
than five thousand pounds." It should he remembered that, in those days, our
lawsagaimtbanhupiswmsscmellyoppressiveastheywerefooliah.

It is certain that De Foe, whilst under apprehension from his creditors, resided
somethneinBr-istol. "Afi-iendofmineinthatcity," eaysMnW'rlson,"'informs
me that one of his ancestors remembered De Foe, and sometimes saw him walking
inthestreetsof Bristol, ascoutredinthefashion of thefimeawithaflne flowing
wig,1acerufiles, andaswordbyhisside: dsqthathethemohtainedthenameof
'the Sudaygenflmnam'bemsethroughfear of the bailiifs, he did not dare to
appear in public upon any other day." .

Itappeers thatatthisfimeDe Foe'was invited,bysomemerchants ofhis
acquaintance redding in Cadiz, to settle in Spfin, with the offer of a good com-
mission. "But," says our author, "Providence, which had other work for me
to do, placed a secret aversion in my mind to quitting England upon any account,
andmede merefusethebwtofiudthatfindbbeconcemedwitheome eminent
persons at home, in proposing ways and means to the government for raising-
money to supply the occasion oi the war, then newly begun." De Foe suggested
a general assesmnent of personal property, the amount to be settled by composition,
under the inspection of commissioners appointed by the king. It was, doubtleq
owing to these services, that he was appointed to the ofiice of accountant to
the commissioners of the glass duty, in 1695: whichcommission ceased in 1699.
It was probably about this time that Do Foe became seaetary to the tile-kiln
and brick-kiln works at Tilbury, in Essex. Pantiles had been hitherto a Dutch
manufiacture, and were brought in large quantities to England To supersede the
necessity of their importation, these works were erected. The speculation ulti-
mately pmved unsuccessful '

Towards the close of the war, in 1696!], De Foe'gave to the world-his "Essay
upon Projects :" a work alike admirable for the novelty of the subject, and the
clearness and ingenuity with which it is treated. The jecls of our author may
be classed under the heads of politics, commerce, an benevolence; all having
reference to the public improvement. The that relates to banks in general,
and to the royal or nationalbankin particulsr,whichhewishesto berendered_
submrvient to the relief of the merchant, and the interesls'of commerce, as well
as to the purposes of the state; his next project relates to highways; athird,
to the improvement of the bankrupt laws"; a fourth; to the- plan: of friendly
societies, formed by. mutual assurance, for the reliefof the membm in seasom
of distress; a fifth, tor the establishment of an asylum for "fools," or, more
properly, "naturals," whom he describes as "a particular rent-charge on the great
familyofrnankindf' he next urges the formationof academieg'tosupplysome
neglected branches of education: one of these was tor the improvement of the
Englishtongue, "to polish and refine it;" and this project combinedareforma.
tion of that " foolish vice," swearing: another part of the project was an academy
:0: military studies; and he also suggests an institution for the education of

_' In January, 1700-], appeared De Foe's' celebrated poem of "The Truebcm
Eighshman." It was summed in'answer to "a vile, abhoned pmphlet; in very

V11MEKOIB OF DR FOE.

ill verse; written 'by one'Mr. Tutchin, and milled " The Foreigners," in .which the
author--who he then was I knew not," says De Foe--"fell personally upon the
king and the Dutch nation."

"When I see the town full of lampoons and invectives against Dutchmen,"
says De Foe, in his "Explanatory Preface," "only because they are foreigners,
and the king repreached and insulted by insolent pedauts and ballad-making
poets, for employing foreigners, and being a foreigner himself, I confess myself
moved by it to remind our nation of their (own original, thereby to let them see
what a banter they put upon themselves ; since, spefling of Englishmen ab origim,
we are really all foreigners ourselves." It is to this poem that De Foe was indebted
for a personal introduction to King William. He was sent for to the palace by his
Majesty, conversed with him, and had repeated interviews with him
The abilities and sentiments of De Foe appeared to have made such a favourable
impression on the king, that he ever after regarded him with kindneu; and
conceiving that his talents might be turned to a beneficial account, he employed
him in many secret services, to which our author alludes occasionally in his
writings The effect produced upon the country by the satire was most beneficial.
De Foe himself, nearly thirty years afterwards, writes, "National mistakes, vulgar

perpetuating the benefits which the nation had reaped from the Revolution To
this great and, De Foe devoted all his energies, labouring with unwearied seal in
the cause. His conduct on the imprisonment of the Kentish gentlemen, whose
names are hishrically associated with the presentation of the famous Kentish
petition, was marked with all the intrepidity of his character. The Commons had
imprisoned the petitioners, who had prayed the house for the settlement of the
Protestant Succession, for having presented a petition "scandalous, insolent, and
seditious." On this, De Foe drew up his celebrated "Legion Paper." In what
manner it was communicated to the house does not appear upon the journals. It
was reported at the time that DeFogdisgnisedss a womampresented ittothe
Speaker as he entered the House of Commons. The "Legion" petition rang
like a tocsin' throughout the kingdom As, however, the author remained con-
cealed, the Commons did not think fit to pass any particular censure upon it. The
Kontish petitioners were discharged by the pmmgation of puliament on the 24th
of June; they were subsequently feaswd at Memesa' Hall, on which occasion De
Foe attended. .
By the death of King William our author lost a kind friend and powerful
protector. Toward the latter part of this reign, De Foe took up his abode at
Hackney, and resided there many years. Here some of'his children wereborn
and buried. In the parishuegister is the PS0 ' entry :--" Sophia, daughter to

His next important work--a work that exercised great influence on his
ibrtunes--was the "Shortest Way with the Dissenters; or, Proposals for the
Establishment of 'the Church ; 1702." In this, the author, assuming the character
of an Ultra High Churchman, advocates in an artful veil of irony the adoption of
the severest measures against the Dissenters. The arguments he put forth found

vmmore '0' '10! "I.

high favour with both the Universities. The High Church Party never suspected
the sincerityoftheir partisan, and charmed andwon bythe fierce doctn'nes oftheir
champion, were unsuspicious of the satire of their extravagance. It was, however,
De Fee's hard fateto be misunderstood by both parties. Whilst the High Church-
men congratulated themselves on the addition of another advocate, the Diseenters
treatedhimassrealeuemy. TheChur-ch Party, however, fell into theti-ap laid
for them by De Foe: for, by expremng their delight at the fiery sentiments of
the writer, they avowed them as their own true feelings on the question. The
first detection of our author is said to have been owing to the industry ofthe
Earl of Nottingham, one of the secretaries of state. When his name was actually
kuomwn,ppeop1e were at no loss to decipher his object , and those who had
committed themselves by launching forth? in his praises were stung with madness
attheirown folly. Itwssatonwresolvedbythe partyinpowertocrushDeFoe
by a state prosecution. In the height of the storm, our author sought concealment,
when a proclamation was issued by the Government, ofi'eriiig PS50 for the discovery
of his retreat, and' in the House of Commons, it was resolved that the book " be
burnt by the hands of the common hangman in Palace Yard." 0n the printer of
the work and the bookseller being taken into custody, De Foe issued forth from
his retirement, resolved, as he expresses it, "to throw himself upon. the favour of _
government, rather than that others should be ruined by his mistake." He was
indicted at the Old Bailey Sessions, the 24th of February ,1703, and proceeded to
trial in the following July It maybegathered from his ownaccount ofthe
roseoution, that when hisy enemies had him' in their po,wer they were at a loss to
{now what to do with him. Hewss therefore advised to throw himself on the
mercy of the Queen, with a promise of protection: which induced him to quit his
defence, and acknowledge himself the 1Luther of the offensive work. On this,
hewassentencedtopa yafineoffiOOmarkstotheQueen; tostaudthmtimuin

the pillm'y; to be imp parisoned during the Queen's pleasure, and to find sureties for
his good behaviour for seven you The people, however, were with De Foe.

Hence,he. wasguardedtothepillarybythepopulace; and descendedfromit
with the triumphant acclamationsofthe surrounding multitude. Hehashimself
related,that"thepeopls,whowereexpectedtotreathimver'yill,onthecontrary,
pitiedhim,andwishedthosewhosethimtherewereplacedinhisroom,and
expressed their affections by loud shouts and acclamstions when hewes taken
down." Thus, theodiumiutended for De Foe recoiled onhispersecufors, and the
pillorybecametohimaplaceofhonour.

A triumphant evidence of the high spirit of De Foe' is manifested by the met,
gatgflnlothevery erydayofhisexhibitiontothepeople,hepublished"Ayfiyinnto

ry'

DeFoe'sfoi-tuneswere now at their lowest ebb: beings prisoner, moreover,
hecouldnolongerattendtohispsntileworkahisonly remainingsourwot'
revenueaud they wereccnssquentlygivenup. Bythkafiairhehstashe'
himselfinforinsus,PS3,,500 mdhehadnowawifeandsixehildrende dent

him,withnootherresoureefortheirsupportthantheproduotof' pen.
HencetheleisnreofDeFoe, whilstinNew te,wasnotthatof1dlenessor
dissipation. Itwasthenhestoredhismindwiththosefacisrelativemthehabits
mdpuuuitsofthepfimnergwhichhehasdetailedwithwmnchtruflitomture,

aswellasinterast. Agieatpartofhistimewuealsodevotedtothecompm
IXmom OF DE 303.

sitiou of various ~minor political works. It was likewise whilst in Newgate that
he projected his "Review," a periodical work of four quarto pages, which was
published for nine successive years without intermission, and during the greater
part 011 the time, three times a week, without his having received any assistance
whatever in its production. Throughout this work, he carried on an '
warfare against folly and vice in all their disguises: it pointed the way tothe
" Tatlers," "Spectators," and " Guardians," and may be referred to as" containing
a great mass of interesting and valuable matter, written with all the author's
characteristic spirit and vigour. -

The Tories vainly endeavoured to buy up Do Foe :pbut Newgate had no terrors
for him, and he continued at once their prisoner and their assailant Upon the
accession of Mr. Harley to olfioe, his own politics not being dissimilar to those of
our author, the minister made a private communication to him, with the view
of obtaining his support. No immediate arrangement, however, took place between
them, as Do Foe remained a prisoner some months afterwards. Notwithstanding,
it is most likely that the Queen became acquainted with De Foe's real merits
through the medium of the minister, and was made conscious of the injustice of
our author's sufferings, which she now appeared dedrous to mitigate. For this
purpose, she sent money to his wife and Emily, at the same time transmitting to
him a sufficient sum for the payment of his fine, and the expenses attending his
discharge fi'om prison.

On his release from Newga'aa, De Foe retired to Bury St. Edmunds. Party
clamour, and party-malice, however, pursued him there. On the miserable libels
issued at this time against him, he says, " I tried retirement, and banished myself
from the town: but neither a country recess, any more than a stone doublet, can
secure a man from the clamour of the pen."

In 1705 De Foe was employed by Barley and Godolphin on various missions
of a secret and, it is said, of even a dangerous nature, one of which required his
presence upon the Continent. Harley seems to have been so wall satisfied, that
upon De Fee's return, he rewarded him with an appointment at home. In 1706,
De Foe wrote voluminously on the subject of the union with Scotland, which
measure he strenuously advocated This advocacy obtained for him a confidential
mission to Scotland, where he was received with great consideration. While in
Edinburgh, he published his "Caledonia," &c. a poem. in honour of Scotland
and the Scots nation. In 1708, De Foe was rewarded with an appointment and
a fixed salary. When the Union was completed, he published "The Union
of Great Britain." In 1710, he went to live at Stoke Newington, where he
resided for some yam and appears to have been comfortable in his circumstances.
In 1712 was closed the last volume oithe "Review." In a long preface to this
volume, De Foe has a most eloquent defence of this work, and of the mode in
which he had conducted it. Nothing can be finer, more manly, or more conclusive.
In allusion to his sufierings during the progress of. the work, he says, "I have
gone through a life of wonders, and am the subject of a vast variety of pro.
vidences ; I have been fed more by miracle than Elijah. when the ravens were
his purveyors. I have some time ago summed up my life in this dislich :--

"Nomanhaatuteddifl'eringfortnneemore,
Andthirteeutimealhavo'beeurichandpoor."
This preface maybe considered as a review,---s summing up of the events of

X
.DeFoe'spoliticallife,and as such it pomsses highvaluefortbenobla spirit of
conscioustruththatanimateseverylineofi'it. AsapieceofEngEshitisremark-
ableforitsinnatestrength,aswellasforthesimplicityofitsdiotion.

Our author was again unlucky enough to be committedtoNewgauontho
abeurdchargeofwritingh'belsinfavonroftbel'retender; Afierthedeathonueen-
Anne,De Foe,who hsdbean a political writer for thirtyyears, retiredfiomthe
thorny field to the more pleasant paths 0! literetlxe. Whilst writing "An
Appeal to Honour and Justice," he was struck with apoplexy; he however re-
covered, and in the earlyth of 1:716, oommittedtothepres one of his most
usefultreatises, "The Family Instructor." Thesnccem of this subsequently-induced
him to write his "Religious Courtship," which, on its appearance in 1722, met
with equal favour. ~

In 1719 appeared the immortal " Robinson Crusoe." Nearly the whole circle
of'booksellers had in vain been canvassed for a publisher. William Taylor, the
fortunate speculator, is add to have cleared a thousand pounds by the book, which
rose into immediate popularity. There can be no doubt that the idea of the work
wasfimtsuggestedtotheauthorbythestoryofAlennderSelkierhichhad
been given to the public seven years before. " It has been thought by some,"
says Mr. John Bdhntynqin his biographical sketch prefixed to the Edinburgh
edition of De Foe's novels, " to detract from the merit of De Foe, that the idea
was not originallyhis own; but reallythe story of Selkirk, whichhadbeen'
published a flew years before, in Woodes Rogers' Voyagemmd the World, appears
to have furnishedonr author withsolittlebayondthebamidea ofa man ' '
upon an uninhabited island, that it appears quite immaterial whether he took
his hintfrom that or from any other similar story,ofwhioh manywere then
current." In a number of "The Englishman," swele gave the true and par-
ticular hietoryof Selkirk. The place inwhich "Robinson Crusoe" was composed
has been variously contested. It seems most probable (says Mr. Wilson.) that De
Foe wrote it in his retirement in Stoke N ewington, in a large white house, rebuilt
byhimsdflandsfillstauding inChurch--street. Thswork has beenpriuted in.
almosteverywritten language,and has b'eenthedelightof menofallcreedsand
all distinctions. -

"Robinson Crusoe" was speedily tollowed bythe" Account ofDicko Crooks ;"
the " Life andPiraciesof Captain Singleton ;" the "History ochuncan pbell ;" '
the "Fortunes andMisfortunes of Moll Handel-sf," the " Life of Colonel Jack;"
teiEgZMemoiraofa Cavalier;" andthat extraordinarywork, the "Aocountof the

e"!

'llhelatteryearsof DeFoe'slifemust have beenthoeeof competence, insured
tohrmbythesuoceasof'hisworks. Butthisperiodof'hialifewasembitteredby
the cruelty and unduta'fulnem ofhis son, who, to quote the words of De Foe, PS16m
aletterwritteninhisanguish: "has both ruined myfamilyand broken my hem"

ForsomeyamsbefonhisdmthDeFoesuflemdgreatlyfi'omboththegoutsud
thestoue,wh1chdiseaseswereoecasioned,inpart,mostpmbablybyhisdose
apphcahorn to study, whilst accumulating stores of knowledge for the benefit of
his fiullow~men. He expired on the 24th of April, 1731, when he was about
seventyyears of age. hepafishofStGfleaCfipplegaminwhiehhedrewhis
firstbreeth,wasalsodestinedtoreceivehialast. Eewas buriedfiomthencgon
the 26th of ApriLin Tindall'a burial-ground, now most known'bythe namem

n
pahtfiegitistoehowitehideoumees;whflstvirtueiteelfreeeivesanewattrm.
tionathishnnde. Hewaanotupoethutheoouldwfitevigmousmandhi:
safirewasholdandtrenohant,aswellneconvinchigbyitstereeuugandbytha
nnndomed eloquence of its truth; De Fm'epmegthough ooeasionnllyoanelees,
is gemukahle for its simplicitxand strength. Whathehsstony,heeuyeiuthe

pictures of things. It is owing to this happy faculty, this unforced power, that.
De Foe occasionally rises, as in many instances in the golden volume now offend
to the reader, almost to the sublime. In his picture 'of the despair of Crusoe, we
have, in words intelligible even to infancy, a wondrous delineation of the soul of
man in a. moat trying and most terrible hour. But the crowning merit of De Foe
ie,thathewae,in therigliteenseof thetamboth in his personal conduct, and
the spirit of his writings,

A Tan-sonar Emusmun

X11:good family, though not of that country, my father being a
. '_ foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull: he got a good

. ,1 estate by merchandise, and leaving ofl' his trade, lived efter~

- " ~~' h wards a York; from whence he had married my mother,
whose relations were named Robinson, a very good Emily in that country,
and from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corruption of words in England, we are now called--nay we call our-
selves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.

I had two elder brothers,- one of whom' was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment on foot in Handerauformerly commanded by the famous
Colonel Inckhart-and was killed? at the battle near. Dunkirk against th'e~ '
Spaniards What became of my second brother I. never knew, any more
than my father or mother knew what becaim of me.

BeingthethirdsonoftheEmm, andnotbredtoanytnde,"
head began- to be filled very early with ramb'ling thoughts: my father,-
who was very ancient, had givenmei a; competent share. of learning,as '
far as honse-educefion_and.ia-country'~fiee--school generally go, and designed;
me for the' law; but I' wouldrbe satisfied: with nothingbutw-goingl. to"
sea: and my inclination- to thissled me- -so:strouzly againet'.-the:iwill,"-
nay,_;thel commands of. my Ether, and against-all the entreatiesf;;mda
1:: a

v
persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to be
something fatal in that propensity of nature, tending directly to the life
of misery which was to befal me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
morning into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject: he asked me what
reasons, more than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my
father's house and my native country, where I might be well introduced,
and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry,
with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was men of desperate
fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who
went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the common road; and these
things were all either too far above me, or too far below me; that
mine was the middle state, or what might be called the upper station
of low life, which he had found, by long experience, was the best state
in the world, the most suited to human happiness, not- exposed to the
miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic part
of mankind, and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy of the upper part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the
happiness of this state by this one thing, viz. that this was the state
of life which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequence of being born to great things, and wished they
had been placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the mean and
the great; that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as the standard
of felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities
of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind; but
that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind; nay,
they were not subjected to so many distempers, and uneasiness, either
of body or mind, as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and
extravagances on one hand, or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and
mean or insufficient diet on the other hand. bring distemper upon
themselves by the natural consequences of their way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues and all kind

of enjoyments ; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a middle
2ckuann": nmum lim'uu'm nut to snv 4w "03m

furtune; that, temperance, moderation, quietness, health, sot-deg: all agmeahle
diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly
through the world, and comfox'tably out of it, not embarrassed with the
labours of the hands or of the head, not sold to a life of slavery for
daily bread, nor harassed with perplexed circumstances, which ml) the

soul of peace, and the body of rest; nor enraged with the passion of
s
envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly tasting
the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling that they are happy,
and learning by every day's experience to know it more sensibly.

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born in, seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly
into the station of life which he had just been recommending to me;
and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must be
my mere fate or iault that must hinder it; and that he should have
nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in warning me
against measures which he knew would be to my hurt; in a word, that
as he would cry kind things for me if I would stay and settle at
home as he ted, so he would not have so much hand in my mis-
fortunes, as-Z give me any encouragement to go away; and to close
all, he told" , '-I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he
had used th'epsame earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the
Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires prompting
him to run into the army, where he was killed; and though -he said
he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to
me, that if I did take this foolish step God would not bless me, and
I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly pro-
phetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to be so himself;
I say, I observed the tears run down his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that when he spoke
of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist 'me, he was so moved
that he broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full he
could say no more to me.

I was sinceme affected with this discourse, and, indeed, who could
be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more,
but to settle at home according to my father's desire But alas! a few,
days were it all ofi' ; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further
importunitics, in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away from.

him. However, I did not not quite so hastily as the first heat of my.
4. 'mast

 

CRCKOS'E MOTHER RBI'USKS HIS" "$18113"

resolution prompted, but I took my mother at a time when I thought
her a little more pleasant than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts
were so entirely hent'upon seeing the world, that I should never settle
to anything with resolution enough to go through with it, and my father
had better give me his consent than force me to go without it; that I was
now eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade,
or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure if I did I should never serve
out my time, but I should certainly run 'away from my master before

my time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father
5
to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not like
it, I would go no more; and I would'promise, bya double diligenceto
recover the time that I had lost.

This put my mother into. a great passion; she told me she knew it
would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject;
that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent to any-
thing so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I could think _
of any such thing after the discourse I had hadwith my father, and such
kind and tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me; '
and that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me;
but I might depend I should never have their consent to it; that for
her part, she would not have so much hand in my destruction; and I
should never have it to say that my mother was willing when my
father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet I heard
afterwards that she reported all the discourse to him, and that my father,
afier showing a great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh: " That
boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes abroad,
he will be the most miserable wretch that ever was born: I can give
no consent to it"

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though, in
the mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling
to business, and frequently expostulated with my father and mother
about their being so positively determined against what they knew my
inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went
casually, and without any purpose of making an elopement at that time;
but, I say, being there, and one of my companions being about to sail
to London in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them
with the common allurement of seafaring men, that it should cost me
nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor mother any more,
nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it
as they might, without asking God's blessing or my father's, without
any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour
God knows, on the lat of September, 1651, I went on board a ship
bound for Iondon. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. {Ilia ship Was no sooner
out of the Humber, than the wind-began .to blow and the sea--to rise '

in a most frightful manner; and, as I had never been .at set. before.' I
' a ,'0! mm 033303.

was most inexpresaihly sick in body, and. terrified in mind. I began
now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was'
overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my iathefls
house, and abandoning my duty. All the good counsels of my parents,
my father's tears and my mother's entreaties, come new fresh into my
mind; and my conscience, which was not yet come to the pitch of
hardness to which it has since, repmached me with the contempt of
advice, and the breach of my duty to' God and my father. - .

Allthiswhflethestomincmasedandtheseawentveryhigh,
though nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor what
I saw a few days alter; but it was enough to affect me then, who was
but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. 'I
expected every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every time '
the ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the trough or hollow of the
sea, we should never rise more: in thisagony of mind, I made many
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to spare my life in
this one voyage, if ever I got once my-foot upon dryland again, I would
go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again while
I find; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly thegoodness of his
observations about the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortably
hehadlivedanhisdayaandnev'erhadbeen-exposed to tempestsat'
sea, or troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like a true '
repenting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm
lasted, and indeed some time after; but thevnext day the wind was abated,
and the sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it: however,
I was very grave for all that day,being also a little sea-sick still; but
towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was-quite over, and a
charming fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear,
androsesothenextmorning; and- having little or nowind.and-.a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the
most delightful that ever I saw

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more seersick'. but
very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea thatrwas so rough
and terrible the day before, and could be so'oalm>> and so pleasantin"
so little a time after. And now, last my good resolutions should oonfinue.
my companion, who had enticed me away, comes ti me: "-Well; Bob,'

'1mu ,m mvmunss

says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, " how do you do afier it? I
warrant you were frighted, wer'n't you, last night, when it blew but a'
capful of wind?"--" A capful-d'you call it 2" said I; "'twas a. terrible
storm."--"A storm, you' fool you,"' replies he; " do you call that a
storm? why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-
room, and we think nothing of such-a squall of wind as that; but
you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. _..Come, let us make a .bowl of
punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye see what charming weather 'tis
now?" To make short this sad part of my story, we went the away
of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was made half-drunk with
it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance,
all my reflections upon my past conduct, all my resolutions for the
future. In a. word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface
and settled calmness by,the,abatement of that storm, so the hurry of
my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed
up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in my
distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflection; and the serious
thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes; but I
shook them oii', and roused myself from them as it were from a. distemper.
and applying myself to drinking and company, soon mastered the
return of those fits--for so I called them; and I had in five or six
days got as complete a victory over conscience as any young fellow
that resolved not to be troubled with it could desire. But I was to
have another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such cases generally
it does, resolved to leave me entirely without excuse; for if I would not
take this for a deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretoh among us would confess both the danger
and the mercy of.

The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into Yarmouth Roads;
the wind having been contrary; and the weather calm, we had made
but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz, at south-
west'ior seven or eight days, during which time a great many ships
from; Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common harbour. where
the ships might wait for a wind'for the. river. -

We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided it up ,

the river, but that the wind blew too fresh, and, afier we had lain four or
8
five days, blew very-hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as good as
a harbour,.the ancliorrge good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men
were unconcerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent
the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth day,
. in the morning, the wind increased. and we had all hands at work to strike

 

cannon ll manual: av mo (Lump Arum ml Iron].

our top-masts, and make everything snug and. close, that the ship might
ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our
ship rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-
anchor, so that we rode with Miro anchors ahead, and the cables veemd

out to the better end.
9
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to see
terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves. The
master, though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet as he
went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say,
several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost; we shall be
all undone l" and the like. During these first hurries I was stupid, lying
still in my cabin, which was in the steernge, and cannot describe my
temper: I could ill resume the first penitence which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against: I thought the bitterness of
death had been past; and that this would be nothing like the first; but
when the master himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we
should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of my cabin,
and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw: the sea ran
mountains high, and broke upon 'us every three or four minutes; when I
could look about, I could see nothing but distress round us ; two ships that
rode near us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being deep laden;
and our men cried out, that a ship which rode about a mile ahead of
us was foundered. Two more ships, being driven from their anchors, were
run out of the Roads to sea, at all adventures, and that not with a mast
standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the
sea ; but two or three of them drove, and came close by us, running away
with only their spritsail out before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship
to let them cut away the fore-mast, which be was very unwilling to do;
but the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship would
founder, he consented; and when they had cut away the fore-mast, the
maimmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut that away also, and make a clear deck.

And one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was
but a. young sailor, and who had been in such a fright before at but a little.
But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that
time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former
convictions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions I had
wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself! and these, added to the
terror of the storm, put me into such a condition, that I can by no words
describe it. But the worst was not come yet; the storm continued with
such fiuy, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a

worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and wallowed in the
10
we, so that the semen every now and then cried out she would found>>:
It was my advantage in one respect that I did not know what they meant
by founder, till I inquired. However the storm was so violent, that I saw,
what is not often seen, the mast-er, the boatswain, and some others more
sensible than the rest, at their prayers. and expecting every moment when

 

"9302 V" I! 03"? II" DUB!" 1K! 890""! mm.

the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been down to see,
cried out we had sprung a leak; another said, there was four feet water in
the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At that word, my

heart, as I thought, died within me: and I fell backwards upon the side of
11
my bed where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able to
pump as another; at which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and
worked very heartily. \Vhile this was doing, the master seeing some light
colliers, who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip, and run
away to the sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal
of distress. I, who knew nothing what they meant, thought the ship had
broken, or some dreadful thing happened. In a word, I was so surprised
that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a. time when everybody had his
own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me; but
another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot,
let me lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before
I came to myself.

we worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent
that the ship would founder; and though the storm began to abate a
little, yet it was not possible she could swim till we might run into
any port; so the master continued firing guns for help; and a light ship,
who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us.
It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us ; but it was
impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives
to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stem with a. buoy to it,
and then veered it out a great length, which they, after much labour
and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and
got all into their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were
in the boat, to think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her
drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could ; and our
master promised them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he would
make it good to their master: so partly rowing. and partly driving, our
boat went away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far
as Winterton Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till
we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time what was meant
by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes
to look up when the seamen told me she was sinking; for from the moment
that they rather put me into the boat, than that I might be said to go in,
my heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly with
horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

12(:IleOl; mum's Al" XIII FURY.

While we were in this condition--the men yet labouring at the 0:1): to
bring the boat near the shore--we could see (when, our boaL mounting the
waves, we were able to see the shore) a great many people running along
the strand, to assist us when we should come near; but; we made hm slow
way inwards the shore; nor were we able to reach the shore, till, being past
the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore fills 011' to the westward tuwa'ds

(Emmet, and so the land broke ofl' a little the violence of the wind. Herc-
13ROBIN 80K CBUSOB.

we got in, and, though not without much difliculty, got all safe on shore,
and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we
were used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships,
and had money given us sufiicient to carry us either to London or back to
Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone
home, I had been happy, and my father, as in our blessed Saviour's parable,
had even killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the skis I went away in
was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any
assurances that I was not drowned

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinaey that nothing could
resist; and though I had several times loud calls from my reason, and my
more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know
not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a. secret overruling decree,
that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction, even
though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open.
Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misery, which it was
impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me forward against the
calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and against
two such visible instructions as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the
master's son, was now less forward than I. The first time he spoke to me
after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for we
were separated in the town to several quarters; I say, the first time he saw
me, it appeared his tone was altered; and, looking very melancholy, and
shaking his head, he asked me how I did, and telling his father who I was,
and how I had come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go farther
abroad: his father, turning to me with a. very grave and concerned tone.
" Young man," says he, "you ought never to go to sea any more; you ought
to take this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring
man." " W'hy, sir," said I, " will you go to sea no more? " "That is another
case," said he; "it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what
you are to expect if you persist Perhaps this has all befallen us on your
Pecount, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continues he, " what are
you; and on what account did you go to sea?" Upon that I told him some

of my story ; at the end of which he burst out into a. strange kind of passion:
uCRUSH! RECEIVES A "PM! IRON BIB I'IIIKFD'S ,A'flmk

" What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wremh should come
into my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship with thee again
for a thousand pounds" This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his
spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther
than he could have authority to go. However, he afterwards talked very
gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father, and not tempt Provi--
dence to my ruin, telling me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against
me. "And, young man," said he, "depend upon it, if you do not go back,
wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappoint-

ments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon you."
15
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I saw him no
more; which way he went I knew not. As for me, having some money in
my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as well as on the
road, had many struggles with myself, what course of life I should take,
and whether I should go home or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that ofi'ered to my
thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed at _
among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my father and
mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I have since often
observed, how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such
cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
not ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools,
but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be esteemed
wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what
measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluc-
tance continued to going home; and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of
the distress I had been in wore ofi' ; and as that abated, the little motion I
had in my desires to return wore off with it,,ti11 at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's house,--
which hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of raising my
fortune ; and that impressed those oonceits so forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even the commands of
my father ;--I say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented the most
unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on board a vessel
bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly called it, a
voyage to Guinea

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did not ship
myself as a sailor; when, though I might indeed have worked a little
harder than ordinary, yet at the same time I should have learnt the duty
and office of a fore-mast man, and in time might have qualified myself for
a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my. fate to
choose for the worse, so I did here; for having money in my pocket and
good clothes upon my back, I would alwaysg 'r'o on board in the habit of a
gentleman; and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor learned.

to do any. .
161
It was my lot first of all'to fall into pretty good company in'London,
which does not always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows
as I then was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for them
very early; but it was not so with me. I first got acquainted with the
master of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea; and who, having
hadverygood successtherawas resolvedtogo again. This eaptaintaking
a fancy to myconversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time,
hearing me sayI had a mind to see the world, told'me ifI would go the
voyagewithhimIshouldbeatno expense; Ishouldbehismeumate and
hiscompanion; andif I could carry anything with me, I should have all
theadvantageof itthatthetradewouldadmit;andperhaps1 might meet
with some encouragement ' '
' Iembracedtheofl'er; andenteringinto a strictfiiendshipwiththis
captain, who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyagewith him,
and carried a small adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty
of my friend the captain, I increased vary considerably; for I carried about
PS40insuchtoysandtrifles as theoaptaindirectedmeto buy. Theseflo
I had mustered together by the assistance of-some of myrelstions whom
_ I corresponded with; and who, I believe, got my father, or at least my~
" mother, to contribute so much as that to my first adventure.

Thiswasthe onlyvoyagewhichImaysaywas successfulinallmy
'- ventures, which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the
. ptain; under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics
' d the rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
-urse, take an observation, and, in short, to understand some things that
were needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as - he took delight to
instruct me, I took delight to learn; and, in sword, this voyage made me
" both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
' of gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return.
-: u -: PS300; and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have
' ce so completed my ruin.'

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortrmes too ; particularly, that I
"as continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive
eat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast, from the
titudeof fifieendegreesnortheventpthelineitself.

Iwasnowsetup foraGuineatrader; mdmyfiiendtomygreat mis-
rtmedyingmonaflerhisarfivdlmsolvedtogothesamevoyageagaim
d I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate in-the

17 - c '
former voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This was the
unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for though I did not carry quite
PS100 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had PS200 left, which I had lodged
with my friend's widow. who was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible

 

 

C'll'SO'H LEARXE SDXLTEXNO 0" NAVIGATION.

misfortunes: the first was this--our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those Islands and the African shore, was
surprised in the grey of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sullee, who gave

chose to us with all the sail she could make Ye crowded also as much
18
canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts carry to get clear; 'but find-
ing the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us in a few
hours, we prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue
eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing
to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he
intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in
a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again, after returning our
fire, and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men which
he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all our men
keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves.
But laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered

 

CAM-750KB 8!"?me LLLK 11m UP mu COUNTRY 121' 7m: NODBS.

ixty men upon our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the

ails and rigging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-

' hosts, and such like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut

hort this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three

* tf our men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were
6 arried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended;

nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, as the rest of our

, on were, but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize,

11d made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At

19
this surprising change of my circumstances, from a. merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed ; and now I looked back upon my
father's prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable and have none
to relieve me, which I thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that
I could not be worse; for now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
I was undone without redemption; but, alas! this was but a. taste of the
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, so I was
in hopes that he would take me with him when he went to see. again, believ-
ing that it would some time or other be his fate to be taken by a. Spanish or
Portugal man-of-war; and that then I should be set at liberty. But this
hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me on
shore to look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves
about his house ; and when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered
me to lie in the cabin to look aiter the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I might take
to effect it, but found no way that had the least probability in it; nothing
presented to make the supposition of it rational ; for I had nobody to com-
municate it to that would embark with me--no fellow-slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two years, though I
often pleased myself with the imagination, yetI neverhad the least encourag-
ing prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself, which put
the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my head.
My patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship,
which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used, constantly, once or twice
a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace,
and go out into the road a-fishing; and, as he always took me and young
Maresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved
very dexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes he would send me
with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth--the Maresco, as they called
him--to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a~fishing in a calm morning, a. fog rose
so thick that, though we were not half a league from the shore, we lost sight
of it; and rowing we lmew not whither or which way, we laboured all day,
and all the next night; and when the morning came, we found we had
pulled ofi' to sea instead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were at

least two leagues from the shore. However, we got well in again, though with
20CRCBOB MSDXTATES BIB my:

a great deal of labour and some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty
fresh in the morning; but we were all very hungry.

But our.patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care
(I himelf for the future; and having lying by him the long-boat of our
English ship that he had taken, he resolved he would not go all-fishing any
more without a compass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter
of his 'ship, who also was an English slave, to build a little state-room, or
cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place
to stand behind it to steer, and haul home the main-sheet; and room
before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with what
we call a shoulder-of~mutton sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the
cabin, which lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie,
with a slave or two, and a. table to eat on, with some small lockers to put
in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; and his breads

rice. and coffee.
2:
We went frequently out with his boat a-fishing; and as I was most
dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It happened
that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish,

with two or three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom 3

he had provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on board the boat
over-night a larger store of provisions than ordinary; and had ordered me
to get ready three fusees with powder and shot, which were on board his
ship, for that they designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the next morning
with the boat washed clean, her ancient and pendants out, and everything
to accommodate his guests; when by-aud-by my patron came on board
alone, and told me his guests had put off going, from some business that
fell out, and ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with
the boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his
house; and commanded that as soon as I got some fish I should bring it
home to his house ; all which I prepared to do.

This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts,
for now I found I was likely to have a little ship at my command;
and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing
business, but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much
as consider, whither I should steer,--anywhere to get out of that place
was my desire.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must
not presume to eat of our patron's bread. He said that was true; so
he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, and three jars of fresh
water, into the boat I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood,
which it was evident, by the make, were taken out of some English
prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as
if they had been there before for our master. I conveyed also a great
lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred-
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer.
all of which were of great use to us afterwards, especially the wax to
make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently
came into also: his name was Ismael, which they call Muley, or Moely;

so I called to him :--"Moely," said I, "our patron's guns are on board

the heat; can you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we
may kill some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I

22
know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship." "Yes," says he, "I'll
bring some;" and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which
held a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and another with
shot, that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat. At the same time, I had found some powder of my master's
in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of the port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of
the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The
wind blew from the N.N.E., which was contrary to my desire. for bad
it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of Spain,
and at least reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone' from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I had
fish on my hook, I would not pull them up, that he might not see them,
I said to the Moor, "This will not do; our master will not be thus
' served; we must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed, and,
being in the head of the boat, set the sails; and, as I had the helm,
I run the boat out near a league farther, and then brought her to,
as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward
to where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for something
behind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his waist. and
tossed him clear overbom into the sea. He rose immediately, for he
swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, told me
he would go all over the world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he would have reached me very quickly, there being but little
wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the
fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done him no
hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none: "But," said
I, " you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm;
make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but
if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through the head, for I am
resolved to have my liberty:' so he turned himself about, and swam for

the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was
an excellent swimmer.
' 28
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. When
he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to
him, "Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great man;
but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me," that is, swear
by Mahomet and his father's beard, "I must throw you into the see
too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could
not distrust him, and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the
world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward, that they
might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do): for who
would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward, to the truly
Barbarian coast, where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround
us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could not go on shore
but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind.

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little towards
the east, that I might keep in with the shore: and having a fair, fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made
the land, I could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles south
of Sallee : quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed
of any other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken of the Moore, and the dreadful
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or go on shore, or come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till I
had sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shitting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase

.of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew
not what, nor where; neither what latitude, what country, what nation,
or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see any people; the principal
thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek in the evening.
resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the
country; but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful

24w w ....-- -

 

xlsmr awLmS 10 In: h'M'I'IIrUX.

noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew
not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, "then
I won't; but it may be that. we may see men by day, who will be as
bad to us as those lions."--" Then we give them the shoot gun," says
Xury, laughing, "make them run wey." Such English Xuxy spoke by
conversing among us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so
cheerful, and I gave him a drum (out of our patron's case of bottles)
to cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it: we
dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for we slept
none; for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures (we knew
not what to call them) of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and
run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves for the pleasure
of cooling themselves; and they made such hideous howlings and yelliugs,
that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too ; but we were

both more frighted when we heard one of these mighty creatures come
25
swimming towards our boat; we could not see him, but we might hear
him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious beast Xury
said it was a. lion, and it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury
cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away: " No," says I, " Xury; we
can slip our cable, with the buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot
follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature
(whatever it was) within two oars' length, which something surprised me ;
however, I immediately stepped to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun,
fired at him; upon which he immediately turned about, and swam towards
the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises, and hideous cries
and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing I
have some reason to believe those creatures had never heard before: this
convinced me that there was no going on shore for us in the night on
that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was another question
too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had been
as bad as to have fallen into the hands of the lionsand tigers; at least
we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat; when and where
to get to it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him go on shore
with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and bring
some to me. I asked him why he would go? why I should not go,
and he stay in the boat? The boy answered with so much afi'ection,
as made me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans come, they
eat me, you go wey."--" Well, Xury," said I, " we will both go, and if
the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us."
So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a drain out of our
patron's case of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hauled the
boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and so waded on
shore; carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat. fearing the coming of
canoes with savages down the river; but the boy seeing a low place
about a mile up the country, rambled to it, and by-and-by I saw him
come running towards me I thought he was pursued by some savage,
or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran forwards towards him to

help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging
26
over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a. here, but
different in colour, and longer logs: however, we were very glad of it, and
it was very good meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to
tell me he had found good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water,
for a little higher up the creek where we were we found the water fresh
when the tide was out, which flowed but a little way up ; so we filled our
jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way,
having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country.

 

1|"; M005! no A HUNTING 1X AN ARMY.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I know very well that
the islands of the Canaries and the Cape do Verd Islands also, lay not far
ofl' from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an observation to
know what latitude we were in, and not exactly knowing, or at least
remembering, what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand 011' to sea. towards them; otherwise I might now
easily have found some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till I came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade. that would
relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was must be that

country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
27
Negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the Negroes
having abandoned it, and gone farther south, for fear of the Moors; and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its bmsnness; and.
indeed, both forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions,
leopards, and other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the
Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or
three thousand men at a time: and, indeed, for near a hundred miles to-
gether upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by
day, and heard nothing but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of Tenerifl'e,
being the high top of the Mountain Tenerifi'e in the Canaries; and had a
great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having tried
twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too high
for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had led:
this place; and once in particular, being early in the morning, we came to
an anchor under a little point of land, which was pretty high; and the tide
beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we
had best go farther ofi' the shore; "for," says he, "look, yonder lies a
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked where '
he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill
that hung as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I, " you shall go on
shore and kill him." Xury looked frighted, and said, "Me kill! he eat me
at one month ;" one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to the
boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest gun, which was almost
musket bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two
slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and
the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. I
tookthebestaimlcouldwiththefirstpiece tohaveshothiminthehead,
but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose that the slugs hit
his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up, growling at
first, but finding his leg broken, fell down again; and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a- little
surprised that I had not hit him on the head; however, I took up the

second piece immediately, and though he began to move off, fired again, and
28OF BOBIHSON 0317803

shot him in the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop and make but
little noise, but lie struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would
have me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I: so the boy jumped into
the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the

' other hand, and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the phoe to

his ear, and shot him in the head again, which despatched him quite. -

Thiswasgameindeedtous,butthiswasnofood; sndeasvery
sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good
for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would have some of him; so he
comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet " For what, Xury ?"
said I. " Me out off his head," said he. However, Xury could not out.
oh" his head, but he out off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a
monstrous great one.'

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him might, one
way or other, be of some value to us; and I' resolved to take ofi' his skin if
I could So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury was much the
better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do 'it. Indeed, it took _us
both up the whole day, but at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading
it on the top of our cabin, the sun efi'ectually dried it in two days' time,
and it afterwards served me to lie upon. I

After this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve
days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which began to abate very
much, and going no ofiener to the shore than we were obliged to for fresh
water. My design in this was, to make the River Gambia or Senegal, that
is to say, anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet
with some European ship; andif I didnot, I knew not what courseIhad
to take, but to seek for the islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I -
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands;
and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either
that I must meet with some ship, or must perish

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have
saiiIbegantoseethatthe land was inhabited; andin two orthree
places as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us ,
we could also perceive they were quite black, and naked. I was once
inclined to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my. better coun-
sellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled' in nearer the

shorethatImighttslktothem,andI found theyranalongthe shoreby'
so .-
me a good way: I observed they had no weapons in their hands, except
one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that
they could throw them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a distance,
but talked with them by signs as well as I could; and particularly made
signs for something to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they
would fetch me some meat. Upon this, I lowered the top of my sail, and lay
by, and two of them ran up into the country, and in less than half an hour
came back, and brought with them two pieces of dried flesh and some corn,
such as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew what the one
or the other was: however, we were willing to accept it, but how to come
at it was our next dispute, for I would not venture on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us: but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood a
great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them
amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them won--
derfully: for while we were lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures,
one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
towards the sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female, or whether
they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more than we could
tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it was the latter; because,
in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night;
and, in the second place, we found the people terribly frighted, especially
the women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the water,
they did not offer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves
into the sea, and swam about, as it they had come for their diversion: at
last one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I expected;
but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible expe-
dition, and bade Xury load both the others. As soon as he came fairly
within my reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head: immediately
he sank down into the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down,
as if he was struggling for life, and so indeed he was: he immediately made
to the shore; but between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at
the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even ready to die for

fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror; but when they saw the
30
cmturedead,andsuhkinthewater,andthat1madesignstothemto
eometotheshoratheytook heart and came, audbeganto search for the
creature. I foundhim by his blood staining the water: and by the help
of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted,
and fine to an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their hands with
admimfiomtothinkwhatitwas Ihadkilledhimwith.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise. of the
gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains from whence
they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what it was. I found
quickly the Negroes wished to eat the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them take it as a favour from me; which, when I made
signs to them that they might take him, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him; and though they had no knife,
yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they took off his skin as readily, and
much more readily, than we could have done with a knife. They offered
me some of the flesh, which I declined, pointing out that I would give it
them; but made signs for the skin, which they gave me very hely, and
brought me a great deal more of their provisions, which, though I did not
understand, yet I accepted I then made signs to them for some water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They called imme-
diately to some of their friends, and there came two women, and brought a
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I supposed, in the sun; this they
set down to me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled
them all three. The women were as naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water;
and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for about eleven days
more, without ofi'ering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run .out a
great length into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues before
me; andthe seabeing very calm,Ikeptalarge ofing to make this point.
At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues from'the land, I saw
plainly land on the other side, to seaward: then I concluded, as it was-
most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the islands
called, from thence, Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great
distance, andIcouldnotwelltellwhatIhadbestto do; forifIshouldbe
taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one or other

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I~stepped into the cabin, and

31 '
sat down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the boy cried out,
" Muster, master, alship with a sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out
of his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to
pursue us, but I knew we were far enough out of their reach. I jumped
out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the ship, but that it was a
Portuguese ship ; and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea, for
Negroes. But, when I observed the course she steered, I was soon con-
vinced they were bound some other way, and did not design to come any
nearer to the shore: upon which I stretched out to sea as much as I could,
resolving to speak with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come in
their way, but that they would be gone by before I could make any signal
to them: but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they,
it seems, saw, by the help of their glasses, that it was some European boat,
which they supposed must belong to some ship that was lost; so they
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and as I
had my patron's ancient on board, I made a. waft of it to them, for a. signal
of distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they
saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun Upon these signals they
very kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and in about three hours time
I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in
French, but I understood none of them; but, at last, a Scotch sailor, who
was on board, called to me: and I answered him, and told him I was an
Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery from the Moors, at
Sallee; they then bade me come on board. and very kindly took me in,
and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that I was
thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless
condition as I was in; and I immediately offered all I had to the captain
of the ship, as a. return for my deliverance; but he generously told me,
he would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered
safe to me, when I came to the Brazils. " For," says he, "I have saved
your life on no other terms than I would be glad to be saved myself; and
it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
Besides," said he, "when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a. way from
your own country, if I should take from you what you have, you will be
starved there, and then I only take away that life I have given. No, no,"

32' .{z-s

Wat:

 

CIXUSOR ls NHL." UP 11? A PORTUGUESE trawl-2L.

says he: "Seignor Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), " I will carry you thither in
charity, and those things will help to buy your subsistence there, and your
passage home again."

. As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the performance
to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen, that none should touch anything
that I had: then he took everything into his own possession, and gave me
back an exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even to my three
. earthen jars.

,As to my beat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and told me
i' he walla buy it of me for his ship's use; and asked me what I would have
'1 for it! I told him, he had been so generous to me in everything, that I

' Veould not ofl'er to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him:
33 - n
upon which, he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty
pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if any one offered
to give more, he would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of
eight more for my boy Xury, which I was loath to take; not that I was
unwilling to let the captain have him,'but I was very loath to sell the poor
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
ofi'ered me this medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set him
free in ten years, if he turned Christian: upon this, and Xury saying he
was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived in the Bay de
Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And
now I was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of
life; and what to do next with myself I was to consider.

The generous heatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember : he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me twenty
ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in
my boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered
to me; and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me, such as the case
of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees'-wax--for I had
made candles of the rest: in a word, I made about two hundred and twenty
pieces of eight of all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore
in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house of a
good, honest man, like himself, who had an Mamie, as they call it (that is,
a plantation and a sugar~house). I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of planting and making
of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they got rich
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there, I would turn
planter among them; resolving, in the mean time, to find out some way to
get my money, which I had hit in London, remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much
land that was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and settlement, such a. one as might be suitable to the stock
which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese, of Lisbon, but born of English parents,
whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. I call

him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went
asOl' ROBINSON 030303.

on very eociably together. My stockwas but low, aswell as his; andwe
rather planted for food than anything else, for about two years. However,
webegan to increase, and ourlandbeganto comeinto order; so thatthe
thirdyearwe planted some tobacco,and made eachof use. large pieceof
ground ready for planting canes in the year to come. But we both wanwd
help; and now I found, more than before, I had donewrong in puting
with my boy Xury.

But, alas I for me to do.wrong that never did right, was no great wonder.
I had no remedy but to go on: I had got into an employment quite remote
to my genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which
I for-sock my father's house, and broke through all his good advice Nay, I
was coming into the very middle station, or upper degme of low life, which
my father advised me to before, and which, if I resolved to go on With, I
mightas well have stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself in the
world, as I had done; and I used often to say to myself, I could have done
this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone five thousand
miles off to do it among strangers and savages, in a wilder-um, and at such
adistance as never-to hear from anypart oftheworld that hadthe least
knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost
regret I had nobody to converse with, but now and then this neighbour;
no work to be done, but by the labour of my hands; and I used to say, I
lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate island, that had nobody
there but himself: But how just has it been--and how should all men
reflect, that when they compare their present conditions withothers that
are worse, Heaven may oblige them tomake the exchange, and be convinced
of their former felicity by their experience--I say, how just has it been, that
the truly solitary life I reflected on, in an island of mere desolation, should
be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the life which I then
led, in which, had I continued, I had, in all probability, been exceeding
prosperous and rich.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took me up
atmwentback--forthe ship remained there, inpravidinghislading, and
mparing for his voyage, nearly three months; when, telling himwhat little
stockIhadlefi. behindmein London, hegavemethisfriendlyandsincere
adVice:--"Seignor Inglese," says he (for so he always called me), "if, you
Will give me letters, and. a procuration'in form to me, with .ordersto

85 .
person who has your money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to
such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this
country, I will bring'you the produce of them, God willing, at my return;
but, since human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say,
is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; so that, if .it come
safe, you may order the rest the same way; and, if it miscarry, you may
have the other half to have recourse'to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I could not
but be convinced it was the best course I could take; so I accordingly
prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had left my money, and
a procmation to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my adventures
----my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portuguese captain at sea,
the humanity of his behaviour, and what condition I was now in, with all
other necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest captain
came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants there,
to send over, not the order only, but a full account of my story to a
merchant at London, who represented it efi'ectually to her; whereupon she
not only delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket, sent the Portugal
captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English goods,
such as the captain had written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon.
and he brought them all safe to me to the Brazils; among which, without
my direction (for I was too young in my business to think of them), he had
taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils, necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortunes made, for I was
surprised with the joy of it; and my good steward, the captain, had laid out
the five pounds, which my friend had sent him for a present for himself; to
purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for six years' service, and
would not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I
would have him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all ; .for my goods being all English manutacture, such
as cloths, stufi's, baize, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the
country, I found means to sell them to averygreat advantage; sothatI
might say, I had more than four times the value of my first cargo, and was

now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour--I mean in the advancement of
so
my plantation; for the first thing I did, Ibought me anegro slave, andan
European servant also--I mean another besides that which the captain
brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of our
greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the next year with great
success in my plantation: I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own
ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my. neighbours;
and these fifty rolls, being each of above a hundred-weight, were well cured,
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon: and now increasing
in business and in wealth, my head began to be full of projects and under-
takings beyond my reach; such as are, indeed, often the min of the best
heads in business. Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father
so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired life, and of which he had so
sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of; but other things
attendedme, andeas stilltobethewilful agent of allmy ownmiseries;
and particularly, to increase my fault, and double the reflections upon
myself, which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these
miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish
inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination,_in contradic-
tion to the clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of
those prospects, and those measures of life, which nature and Providence
concurred to present ms with, and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my pmnts, so I
could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy view I had of
being a rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash
and immoderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing
admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of
human misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with
life, and a state of health in the world.

To come, then, by the just degrees, to the particulars of this part of my
story :.--You may suppose, that having now lived almost four years in the
Bmzils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation,
I had not only learned the language, but had contracted acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvador, which was our part; and that, in my discourses among them,
Ihadfieqnentlygiventhemanaccountof mytwo voyagestotheooast of
Guinea; the manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how easy itwas '

a7
to purchase upon the coast for trifles--such as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like--not only gold dust, Guinea grains,
elephants' teeth, &c., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great
numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads,
but especially to that part which related to the buying Negroes, which was
a trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had
been carried on by assientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and
Portwal, and engrossed in the public stock; so that few Negroes were
bought, and those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters of my
acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three of them
came to me next morning, and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them of the last night, and they came to
make a secret proposal to me ; and, after enjoining me secrecy, they told me
that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all
plantations as well as I, and were straiteued for nothing so much as
servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on, because they
could not publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired
to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and divide
them among their own plantations; and, in a word, the question was,
whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they ofi'ered me that I should have my
equal share of the Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been made to any
one that had not had a settlement and a plantation of his own to look after,
which was in a fair way of coming to he very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it; but for me, that was thus entered and established, and had
nothing to do but to go on as I had begun, for three or four years more, and
to have sent for the other hundred pounds from England; and who in that
time, and with that little addition, could scarce have failed of being worth
three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too--for me to
think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man in
such circumstances could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
offer than I could restrain my first rambling designs when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with all my

heart, if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence,
asnus Puma>>: MAKE A X'KOPOHAI. 1'0 crimson.

and would dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This
they all engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so; and
I made a. formal will, disp0sing of my plantation and effects in case of my
death, making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my
universal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in
my will; one-half of the produce being to himself, and the other to be
shipped in England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects, and to keep
up my plantation. Had I used half as much prudence to have looked into
my own interest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to have done
and not to have done, I had certainly nevur gone away from so prosperous
undertaking, leaving all the probable views of a. thriving circumstance.

and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards,
39
to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to
myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy
rather than my reason; and, accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the
cargo furnished, and all things done, as by agreement, by my partners in the
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour, the 1st of September, 1659, being
the same day eight years that I went from my father and mother at Hull, in
order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my own interests.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons burden, carried six
guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. We had on
board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our trade
with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and other trifles, espe-
cially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the north-
ward upon our own coast, with design to stretch over for the African coast
when we came about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which, it
seems, was the manner of course in those days. We had very good weather,
only excessively hot, all the way upon our own coast, till we came to the
height of Cape St. Augustine; from whence, keeping further 011' at sea, we
lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fernando de
Noronha, holding our course NE. by N., and leaving those isles on the east.
In this course we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and were, by
our last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern latitude,
when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our knowledge.
It began from the south-east, came about to the north-west, and then settled
in the north-east; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and, scuddiug away before
it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and,
during these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men
die of the calenture, and one man and the boy washed overboard About
the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven degrees north
latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difi'erence west
from Cape St Augustino; so that he found he was upon the coast of
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazons, towards that

of the river Oroonoque, commonly called the Great River; and began to
40clamor: AND 1n! man-m mum": 5'le (3mm

consult with me what course he should take, for the ship was leaky, and
very much disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.

Iwas positively against that; and looking over the charts of the sea-
coa-st of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited country
for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of the Cafibbee
Islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadocs; which, by
keeping off at sea, to avoid the iudmft of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we
conlfl not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa. without some
assistance both to our ship and to ourselves.

With this design we changed our course, and steered away NW. by W.,
in_ order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief. But
our voyage was otherwise detennincd ; for, being in the latitude of twelve
degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came upon us, which carried us

away with the same impetnosity westward, and drove us so out of the we}:
41
of ellhumaucommerce,'that,had all omhvesbeensavedastotheseawe
' were rather in danger of being devoured by savages than ever returning to
our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early
in the morning cried out, "Land!" and we had no sooner run out of the
cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were,
than the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her motion being so
stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we
should all have perished immediately; and we were immediately driven
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray of the
sea.

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition to
describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances. We
knew nothing where we were, or upon what land- it was we were driven--
whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited As the
rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we could
not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking
into pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately
about. In' a word, we sat looking upon one another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man, accordingly, preparing for another world;
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this. That which was our
present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our
expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the master said the wind
began to abate

N ow, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the ship
having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her
getting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to do
but to think of saving our lives as well as we could We had a boat at our
stern just before the storm, but she was first staved by dashing against the
ship's rudder, and in the next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or
was driven ofi' to see; so there was no hope from her. We had another
boat on board, but how to get her off into the sea was s doubtful thing.
However, there was no time to debate, for we fancied the ship would break
in pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and with
the help of the rest of the men, got her slung over the ship's side; and
getting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in

number, to God's mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was abated
42
considerably, yet the sea ran dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be
wallcalleddmwildm,astheDutchcalltheseainastorm. .

Andnow ourcase was verydismalindeed; forwe allsawplainly, that
the sea went so high that the boat could notlive, and that we should be
inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could
we have done anything with it; so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew
that when the boat came nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a
thousand pieces by the breach of the sea However, we committed our
soulsto Godinthemost earnest manner; andthewinddrivingustowards
the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well .
as we could towards land. '

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we
knew not. The only hope' that could rationally 'give us the least shadow of
expectation, was, if we might find some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some
river, where by great chance we might have run our boat in, or got under
the lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there was nothing
like this appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land
looked more frightful than the sea.

Aflierave had rowed or rather driven about a league and a half, as we
reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astem of us, and
plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a'word, it took us with such
a fury, that it overeat the boat at once; and separating us, as well from the
boat as from one another, gave us not time to say, "0 God!" for we were
all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when I sunk
into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from thewaves soasto draw breathfillthatwavehavingdriven me,or
rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself,
went back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the
waterI took in. Ihadso much presence of mind,aswell as breath left,
thatseeingmyseli'nearer the mainland than I expectedIgot uponmy
feet, and endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found itwas
impossibleto avoidit; for Isawtheeea come after me ashigh asagreat
hilLandas furiousas anenemy,which1had_no meansorstrengthto
contend with: my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon
thewster, if I could; andso',hy swimming, to preserve myhreathing and

43 a
pilot myself towards the shore, if possible, my greatest concern now being.
that the sea, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it
came on, might not carry me back main with it when it gave back
towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once twenty or thirty
feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried with a mighty
force and swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might. I was
ready to burst with holding my breath, when as I felt myself raising up, so,
to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the
surface of the water; and though it was not two seconds of time that I
could keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new
courage. I was covered again with water a good while, but not so long but
I held it out; and, finding the water had spent itself and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground again with
my feet. I stood still a few moments to recover breath and till the waters
went from me, and then took to my heels and ran, with what strength I
had, further towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me from the
fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again; and twice more I
was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as before, the shore
being very flat.

The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to me, for the sea
having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather dashed me, against
a piece of a rock, and that with such force, that it left me senseless, and
indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow taking my side
and breast, beat the breath, as it were, quite out of my body; and had it
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the water; but
I recovered a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be
covered again with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock,
and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the
waves were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow
me up as to carry me away; and the next run I took, I got to the main
land, where, to my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore,
and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger and quite out of the
reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and thank
- 44,l'ol'!

 

unseat; "0:9: watt To A l'mcz or! Huck.

God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was, some minutes
before, scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to express, to
the life, what the ecstasics and transports of the soul are, when it is so
saved, as I may say, out of the very grave: and I do not wonder now at
the custom, when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck, is tied
up, and just going to be turned off, and has a. reprieve brought to him--I
say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it,'to let him blood
that very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like grit-1's, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore lifting up my hands, and my whole being,
as I may say, wrapt up in a contemplation of my deliverance; making a
thousand gestures and motions, which I cannot describe; reflecting upon all
my comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be one soul
saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any
Sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were
not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and froth of the
sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so far off ; and considered,

Loni] how was it possible I could get on shore?
45
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition,
I began to look round me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what was
next to be done: and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word,
I had a dreadful deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor
anything either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither did I see any

 

(Zkl'SOE 15 DYEHWHELJXED BY ABTOZ'ZSHHm AT His DELIVERASCE

prospect before me, but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I
had no weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or
to defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill me for

theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, :1. tobacco-pipe, and
46
a little tobacco in a box. This was all my provisions ; and this threw me
into terrible agonies of mind, that for a while, I ran about like a. madman.
Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would

be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country, as at night
they always come abroad for their prey.

 

CRUSOE BRIE "(10 A nun: m ELIE?

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time, was to get up
into a thick bushy tree like a'fir, but thorny, which grew near me, and
Where I resolved to sit all night, and consider the next day What death I
should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a fur-long

from the shore. to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did,
47
to my great joy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth
to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to
place myself so that if I should sleep I m'ght not fall. And having cut me
a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and
having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, few could have done in my condition, and found myself more
refreshed with it than, I think, I ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before. But that which
surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted ofi' in the night from the
sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost
as far as the rock which I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised
by the wave dashing me against it. This being within about a mile from
the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
myself on board, that at least I might save some necessary things for
my use.

When I came down from 'my apartment in the tree, I looked about me
again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay, as the wind and
the sea had tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles on my mht
hand I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her; but
found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat which was about
half a mile broad; so I came back for the present, being more intent upon
getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my present sub-
sistence

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed so far
out that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship. And here I
found a fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we had
kept on board, we had been all safe--that is to say, we had all got safe on
shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all
comfort and company as I now was. This forced tears to my eyes again;
but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to the
ship; so I pulled ofl' my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
took the water. But when I came to the ship, my difiiculty was still
greater to know how to get on board; for, as she lay aground, and high out
of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope, which
I wondered I did not see at first, hung down by the fore-chains so low, as

that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope I got
48
up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold; but that she lay so on the side
of abank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her stem lay lifted up upon
the bank, and her head 10w, almost to the water. By this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that part; was dry ; for you may be

 

CREDO! cuxna' "no Till <<um: 3v 1'": PontcuAlss.

   
  
  
 

:51!!!) my first won: was to search, and to see what was spoiled and what
' was free. And, first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and

' other things, for I had no timeto lose. I also found some rum in the great

cabin, of which 1 L001: 0. huge dram, and which I had, indeed, nccd enough
' gag 49 E
of to spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a
boat to furnish myself with many things which I foresaw would be very
necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had; and
this extremity roused my application. We had several spare yards, and
two or three large spars of wood, and a spare top--mast or two in the ship:
I resolved to fall to work with these, and I flung as many of them over-
board as I could manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope, that
they might not drive away. When this was done, I went down the ship's
side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them together at both ends,
as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or three short pieces
of plank upon them cross-ways, I found I could walk upon it very well,
but that it was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light
So I went to work, and with a carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and
pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries, encoumed me
to go beyond what I should have been able to have done upon another
occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. My
next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid upon
it from the surf of the sea: but I was not long considering this. I first
laid all the plank or boards upon it that I could get, and having considered
well what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests, which I
had broken open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft; the
first of these I filled with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses,
five pieces of dried goat's flesh (which we lived much upon), and a little
remainder of European corn, which had been laid by for some fowls which
we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed There had been
some barley and wheat together; but, to my great disappointment, I found
aitemvards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some cordial
waters; and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack. These I stowed by
themselves, there being no need to put them into the chest, nor any room for
them. \Vhile I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very
calm; and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which
I had left on the shore, upon the sand, swim away. As for my breeches,
which were only linen, and open-knee'd, I swam on board in them and my

stockings. However, this set me on rummaging for clothes, of which I
50
found enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon--as, first, tools to work with
on shore. And it was after long searching that I found out the carpenter's
chest, which was, indeed, a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable
than a ship-load of gold would have been at that time. I got it down to my

.\y

    

mum: GHK INTO zuz ronwAsl-w.

raft, whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I knew in
general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two
very good fowling~pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols. These I
secured first, with some powder-horns and a. small bag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but

knew not where our gunner had showed them ; but with much search I
51
found them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water. Those
two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty
well freighted, and began to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder; and the least cap-full of wind would
have overset all my navigation.

 

CHUSO! LOADS "18 RA".

I had three encouragements: lst, a. smooth, calm sea; 2ndly, the tide
rising, and setting in to the shore; 3rd1y, what little wind there was blew-
me towards the land. And thus, having found two or three broken oars
belonging to the boat--and, besides the tools which were in the chest, I
found two saws, an axe, and a hammer: with this cargo I put to see. For
a. mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive

a little distant from the place where I had landed before; by which I
52
perceived that there was some indraft of the water, and consequently, I
hoped to find some creek or river there, which I might make use of as a
port to get to land with my cargo. >>

As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a. little opening of
the land, and I found a strong current of the tide set into it; so I guided
my raft, as well as I could, to keep in the middle of the stream.

 

cxuaox's run" Is sum" Univ--2r.

. But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had,
I think1 verily, would have broken my heart ; for, knowing nothing of the
coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being
aground at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had
slipped off towards the end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I

did my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their
53mmmvsurvaas

places, but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength ; ' neither durst
I stir from the posture I was in; but holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the rising
of the water brought me a little more upon a. level; and, a little after, the
waterstillrising,my raft floated again,audIthrusther off withthe oa'rI
had into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found myself
in the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong current
of tide running up. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to
shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river: hoping, in,
time, to see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could. _
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to
which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my rafi, and at last got
so near, that, reaching ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly
in. But hereIhadliketohave dipped all mycergo into the seeagain;
for that shore lying pretty steep--that is to say, sloping--there was no
place to land, but where one end of my float, if it ran on shore, would
lie so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that it would endanger
mycargoagain. AllthatIcoulddo,wastcwaittillthetidewasat
the highest, keeping the raft with my car like an anchor, to hold the
side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected
the water would flow over; and so it did. As soon as I found water
enough--for my raft drew about a foot of water--I thrust her on upon
that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by sticking
my two broken cars into the ground, one on one side, near one end.
and one on the other side, near the other end; and thus I lay till the
water ebbed away, and led; my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place
ibr my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the
continent or on an island; whether inhabited or'not inhabited; whether
in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a. hill not above a mile
from me, which rose up very steep and high, and- which seemed to
overtop some other hills, which lay as in 'a ridge from it, northward
I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill, where, sitar I had with great labour and difiiculty got to the

top. I saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz. that I was. in arr-island
M .
environedeverywaywith theses: nolandtbbeseenexeept someroekgv

which lay a great way off; and two small islands, less than this, which
lay about three leagues to the west.

Ifoundalsothat theisland Iwasinwasbmemand,asIsaw
good reason to believe, uninhabited except by wild beasts, of whom.
however, I saw none. Yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither when I killed them could I tell what was fit for

food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a greatbird which '

Issweitting uponatreeonthe sideofagreatwood. Ibelieve it
wasthe firstgun thathadbeenfiredtheresincetheereationof theworld.
Ihadmsmnerfimdthanfromallparts of-thewood therearoseen
innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts, making a confused screaming
and crying, and every one according to his usual note, but not one of
them of any kind that I knew. As for the creature 'I killed, I took
it to be a kind of hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but it had
no talons or claws more than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for
nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my red; and fell to

work to bring my cargo on share, which took me up the rest of that ~

day. What to do with myself at night I knew not; nor indeed where to
rest, for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some

wild beast might devour me, though, as'I afterwards found, there wu .

really no need for those fears.-

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with-the
chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of
but for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way ta
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares,
run out of the wood where I 'shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the. ship which would be useful to me, and. particularly-some
ofthe riggingaudeails, and suchotherthiugs asmightcometo land;
and I resolved to make another voyage on boardthevesseLifpossibla
AndesIknewthatthe first stormthstblewmust necessarilybreak
heraninpieeegIresolvedtosetallotherthings aparttillIhsdgot
everything out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council--
that is to say, in my thoughts--whether I should take back'the' m;
but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go as before, when the
tidewesdown;andIdid s'o,onlythatIsn-ipped before Iwenttrom

55
my hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt, 3 pair of linen drawers,
and a pair of pumps on my feet

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; and,
having had experience of the first, I neither made this so unwieldy, not
loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very useful
to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two or three bags full
of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a. dozen or two of hatchets, and,
above all, that most useful thing called a grindstone. All these I secured,
together with several things belonging to the gunner, particularly two
or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets,
another {curling-piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a large
bagful of small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead; but this last was so
heavy, I could not hoist it 11p to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find,
and a spare fore-top sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I
loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very
great comfort

I was under some apprehension, during my absence from the land,
that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore: but when I
came back, I found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature
like a Wild cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards
it, ran away a. little distance, and then stood still. She sat very com-
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a
mind to be acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but, as
she did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though,
by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not great: however,
I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled at it, and ate it,
and looked (as if pleased) for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no
more: so she marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore,--though I was fain to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were
too heavy, being large casks,--I went to work to make me a little
tent, with the sail, and some poles which I cut for that purpose: and
into this tent I brought everything that I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man

or beast.
56
When I had done this, T blocked up the door of the tent wrth some
boards within, and an empty. chest set up on end without; and spreading
one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head,
and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept
very quietly all night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the night
before I had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day, to fetch all those
things from the ship, and to get them on shore.

i
l

 

EUR8va kamulmuw ms 12>"! FOR THE SIGHT.

 
         
 
  
  
   
 
 
  

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that over was laid up, I
believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still, for while the ship sat
upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get everything out of her that
; [could: so every day at low water 1 went on board, and brought away

something or other; but particularly the third time I went, I brought away
' as much of the riging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine
I could get, with a piece of spam canvas, which was to mend the sails upon
occasion, and the bsm'el of wet gunpowder. In it word, 1 brought away
all the sails first and last; only that I was Iain to cut them in pieces, and
' 'bring as much at a time as 1 could, for they were no more useful to be sails,
'- but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still, was, that last of all, after I had

{nude five or six such voyages as those, and thought I had nothing more to
57

  

'3

l.
,.
4",
expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with ;--I say, after all
this, I found a great hogshead of bread, three large runlets of rum, or
spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was surprising
to me, because I had given over expecting any more provisions, except
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead of the bread,
and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out;
and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also.

The next day I made another voyage, and now, having plundered the
ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the cables.
Cutting the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables
and a. hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could get; and having cut
down the spritsail-yard, and the mizen--yard, and everything I could, to
make a large raft, I loaded it with all these heavy goods, and came away.

3ut my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy,
and so overladen, that, after I had entered the little cove where I had
landed the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did
the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo,
it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected would
have been of great use to me: however, when the tide was out, I got most
of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite
labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which fatigued
me very much. After this, I went every day on board, and brought away
what I could get.

I had been new thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times on
board the ship, in which time I had brought away all that one pair of
hands could well be supposed capable to bring; though I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I should have brought away the whole ship,
piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found the
wind began to rise: however, at low water I went on board, and though I
thought I had rummged the cabin so efl'ectually, that nothing more could
be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I
found two or three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a
dozen of good knives and forks: in another I found about thirty-six pounds
value in money--some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: " 0 drug 1 " said I, aloud,

"what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me--no, not the taking
58("1le am DUWBI W 'flll "BLI-

 
   
  
  

9v
" Toff the ground: one of those knives is worth all this heap: I have no
dimmer of use for thee--e'en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom,
as B creature whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second
1"" thoughts, I took it away; and, wrapping all this in a piece of canvas. 1
began to think of making another raft; but while I was preparing this, I

Q. 9 found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of a"
V 59
hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that
it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind ofi' shore; and that
it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I
might not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly, I let myself
down into the water, and swam across the channel which lay between the
ship and the sands, a'nd even that with difficulty enough, partly with the
weight of the Me I had about me, and partly the roughness of the
water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite high water
it blew a storm.

But I had got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my wealth
about me, very secure. It blew very hard all night, and in the morning,
when I looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen! I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with the satisfactory reflection, that I had
lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get everything out of her that
could be useful to me; and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I
was able to bring away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out
of her, except what might drive on shore from her wreck; as, indeed,
divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of small
use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against
either savges, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the
island; and I had many thoughts of the method how to do this, and
what kind of dwelling to make--whether I should make me a cave
in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon
both; the manner and description of which, it may not be improper to
give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not fit for my settlement,
because it was upon a. low, moorish ground, near the sea, and I believed
it would not be wholesome, and more particularly because there was
no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a. more healthy and more
convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would
be proper for me: 1st, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned;
2ndly, shelter from the heat of the sun; 3rdly, security from ravenous
creatures, whether man or beast; 4thly, a view to the sea, that if God
sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any advantage for my deliver-

ance, of which I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.
60
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep as
a. house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the top.
011 the side of the rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way

 

CROW: "331'! 50"! "0'57 '3 TUB Wm

- in, like'the entrance or door of a. cave; but there was not really any
cave, or way into the rock at all.

W 011 the flat; of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved to
J], 5'- pitch my tent. This plain was not above a. hundred yards broad) and about
" twioeas long, and lay like a. green before my door; and, at the end of it,
descended irregularly every way down into the low ground by the sea-side.

It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill; so that it was sheltered from the
' 61
heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which,
in those countries, is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent I drew a half-circle before the hollow place,
which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter, from the rock, and
twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into
the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest and being out of
the ground above five feet and a half; and sharpened on the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these two rows
of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against
them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a. post; and this fence
was so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it. This
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in the
woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door, but by a short
ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after
me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all
the world, and consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I
could not have done; though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my riches,
all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have the account
above; and I made a large tent, which, to preserve me from the rains, that
in one part of the year are very violent there, I made double, one smaller
tent within, and one larger tent above it; and covered the uppermost with
a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought on
shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and belonged
to the mate of the ship. '

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that would
spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the
entrance, which till now I had leit open, and so passed and rapeseed, as I
said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my tent, I

laid them up within my fence, in the nature 01 a terrace, so that it raised
62
the ground within abouts/foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave, just
behind my tent, which served me like a cellar to my house

It cost me much labour and many days before all these things were
bmught to perfection; and. therefore, I must go back to some other things
which took up some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened, after
I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent, and making the cave, that
a. storm of rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning
happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the efi'cct
of it. I was not so much surprised with the lightningas I waswitba
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself--O my
powder! My very heart sank within me when I thought that, at one blast,
all my powder might be destroyed ; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing my food, as I thought, enfirely depended. I was nothing near so
anxious about my own danger, though, had the powder took fire, 1 should
never have known who had hurt me. ,

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm was over,
I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifydng, and applied myself to
make bags and boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a
little in a parcel, in the hope that whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to
make one part-fire another. I finished this work in about a fortnight; and
I think my powder, which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds
weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel
that had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed
it in my new cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen; and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might come to it,
marking very carefully Where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out once at least
every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as to see if I could kill
anything fit for food ; and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with what
the island produced. The first time I went out, I presently discovered that
there were goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but
then it was "attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that they were so shy,
so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in the
world to come at them; but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but
I might now and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had found
their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they

saw me in the valleys, though they were .upon the rocks, they would run
as
away, as in a terrible flight; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and l
was upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded,
that by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed downward,
that they did not readily see objects that were above them; so afterwards,
I took this method--I always climbed the rocks first, to get above them,
and then had frequently a fair mark.

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily;
for, when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and
took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one with me, upon
my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure; upon which, I
laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it would not eat; so I was
forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great
while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions, my bread especially, as
much as possibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary to
provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn; and what I did for that,
and also how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall
give a full account of in its place; but I must now give some little account
of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which, it may well be supposed,
were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for, as I was not cast away
upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite
out of the course of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz. some
hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I
had great reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this
desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The tears
would run plentifully down my face when I made these reflections; and
sometimes I would expostulate with myself why Providence should thus
completely ruin His creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable;
so without help, abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly
be rational to be thankful for such a life.

But something always returned swift upon me to check these thoughts,
and to reprove me; and particularly one day, walking with my gun in my
hand by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon the subject of my present
condition, when reason, as it Were, expostulated with me the other way,

thus: " Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but, pray remember,
6403030! WALKS BY THU SKA'SIDE IN GRRAT DBJEL'I'ION

  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  

. where are the rest of you? Did not you come eleven of you in the boat!
"Where am the ten? Why were not they saved, and you lost? Why were
"Won singled out? Is it better to be here or there . " And then I pointed to

v'

33' the 3% All evils are to be considered With the good that is in them, and
with what woxse attends them.

I Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my subsist-
ence,a.nd what would have been my case if it had not happened (which was
my ahnndred thousand to one) that the ship floated from the place where she
"I" first struck, and was driven so near to the shore, that I had time to get all
fathese things out of her ; what would have been my case, if I had been forced to
have lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore, without neces-

saries of life. or necessaries to supply and procure them? -' Particularly,"
t I 65 r
said I aloud (though to myself), "what should I have done without a gun,
without ammunition, without any tools to make anything, or to work with,
without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of covering '1'" and that now
I had all these to sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide
myself in such a manner as to live without my gun, when my ammunition
was spent: so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want,
as long as I lived ; for I considered from the beginning, how I would
provide for the accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to
come, even not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even after
my health and strength should decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being
destroyed at one blast--I mean my powder being blown up by lightning;
and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened and
thundered, as I observed just now.

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent
life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by my account,
the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot
upon this horrid island; when the sun, being tons in its autumnal equinox,
was almost just over my head: for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be
in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books, and
pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days; but to prevent this,
I cut with my knife upon a large post, in capital letters, and making it into
a great cross, I set up on the shore Where I first landed, "I came on shore
here on the 30th of September, 1659."

Upon the sides of this square post I cut every day a notch withmy
knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every first
day of the month, as long again as that long one; and thus I kept my
calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place, we are to observe that among the many things which
I brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned,
I made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less useful to
me, which I omitted setting down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and
paper; several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunners, and carpenter's
keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials.

perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all which I huddled together,
as
whether I might want them or no: also, 1 found three very good Bibles.
which came to me in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up
among my things; some Portuguese books also ; and, among them, two or
three Popish prayer~books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and two
cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say something in its
place; for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped
out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went
on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years;
I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, no: any company that he could

 

CRUBOK 5.27.9: UK' A 91x1.

make up to me; 1 only wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not
d0- As I observed before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and I hushauded
"1.9m to the utmost; and I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept
things Very exact, but after that was gone I could not, for I could not make
any 1111: by any means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstanding
all that I had amassed together; and of these, ink was one ; as also a. spade,
Plck-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles, pins, and thread:
as for linen, I soon learned to want that without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it was
near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale, 01' surrounded

67mmmvmmans

my habitation The piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I could well
lifi, were a. long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by
far, in bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and
bringing home one of those posts, and a third dayin driving it into the
ground; for which purpose,- I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last
hethought myself of one of the iron crows; which, however, though I found
it, made driving those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But
what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I had'm
do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any other employment,
if that had been over, at least that I could foresee, except the ranging the
island to seek for food, which I did, more or less, every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstances
Iwas reducedto; andI drewup the state of myafl'airs inwriting, not so
much to leave them to any that were to come afiel- nae--for I was likely to
have but few heirs--as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon
them, and afliicting mymind: andasmy reason began nowto master my
despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to set
the good against the evil, that I might have something to distinguish my
case from worse; and I stated very impartially, like debtor and creditor,
the comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus :--

EVIL GOOD.

I am cast upon a horrible, deso- But I am alive; and not drowned,
late island, void of all hope of re- as all my ship's company were

covery.

I am singled out and separated, But I am singled out, too, from
' as it were, from all the world, to be all the ship's crew, to be spared from
miserable death; and He that miraculously
saved me from death, can deliver me

from this condition.
I am divided from mankind--a. But I am not starved, and perish-
solitaire; one banished from human ing on a barren place, affording no

society. sustenance. .
I have not clothes to cover me. But I am in a hot climate, where,
if I had clothes, I could hardly wear
r them.
08
nvn. soon.
I am without any defence, or But I amcaston anisland where
meanstoresistanyviolenceofman IseenowfldbesststohurtmdasI

or beast. sawon the coast of Africa: and what
if I had been shipwrecked there?

I have no soul to speak to or But God wonderfully sent the

relieve me. ship in near enough to the shore,

thatlhavegot outasmanyneoes--
sary things as will either supply my
wants or enable me to supply myself,
even as long as I live. ,

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that there was scarce
any condition in the world so miserable but there was something negative or
something positive to be thankful for in it; and let this stand as a direction,
from the experience of the most miserable of all conditions in this world
that we may always find in it something to comfort ourselves from, and to
set, in the description of good and evil, on the credit side of the account

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and given
over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a ship--I say, giving over
these thingaIbegan to applymyself to amngemyway of living, andto
makethingsaseesytomeaslcould.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under the side
of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and cables; but I might
nowrather callit awaILforI raisedakindofwallup againstitofturfs,
about two feet thick on the outside; and after some time (I think it was a
year and a. half) I raised rafters from it, leaninglto the rock, andthatohed
or covered it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could get, to keep
out the rain; which I found at some times of the year very violent

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, and
into the cave which I had madebehind me. But I must obwrve, too, that
atfirstthiswasaconfusedheap ofgoods, which,astheylayinnoordel_',-so
theytookup'allmyplace; Ihadno roomfotum myself: soI set myself
to enlarge my cave, and work farther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy
rock, which yielded easily to the labour I bestowed on it ; and so when'I
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right
hand, into the rock; and then, taming to the right again, worked quite out,

and made me a door to come out on the outside of'my pale or fortification
' 69

n.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a hack way to my tent
and to my storehouse, but gave me room to store my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I
found I most wanted, particularly a. chair and a table ; for without these I
was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I could not
write or eat, or do several things, with so much pleasure without a table: so
I went to work And here I must needs observe, that as reason is the sub-
stance and origin of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring everything
by reason, and by making the most rational judgment of things, every man
may be, in time, master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool
in my life; and yet, in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found,
at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had
had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without tools ; and
some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were
never made that way before, and that with infinite labour. For example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
before me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, till I had brought it
to be thin as a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by
this method I could make but one board out of a whole tree ; but this I had
no remedy for but patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my time or
labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a. chair, as I observed above, in the first
place; and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on
my raft from the ship. But when I had wrought out some boards as above,
I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another
all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work on ;
and, in a word, to separate everything at large into their places, that I might
come easily at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang
my guns and all things that would hang up: so that, had my cave been
to be seen, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary things; and I
had everything so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to
see all my goods in such order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every day's
employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and not only
hurry as to labour, but in too much discomposure of mind; and my

' journal would have been full of many dull things; for example, I must
70CnUHOK WOKS OUT Y0 511 "It 1 EA".

have said thus: "Sept. 30th.--After I had got to shore, and had escaped
drowning, instead of being thankful to God for my deliverance, having first
vomited, with the great quantity of salt water which had got into my
stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore wringing my
hands and beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying
out, 'I was undone, undone! ' till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down
on the ground to repose, but durst not sleep, for fear of being devoured."

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and got all
that I could out of her, yet I could not forbear getting up to the top of a
little mountain, and looked out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy,
at a vast distance,I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and then
after looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down and
weep like a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things in some measure, and having settled

my household stuff and habitation, made me a table and a chair, and all as
71
handsome about me as I could, I began to keep myjournal; of which I shall
here give you the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted; for having. no more ink, I was forced to leave
it 013'.

THE JOURNAL.

September 30, 1659.--I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe, being ship~
wrecked, during a. dreadful storm, in the offing, came on shore on this
dismal, unfortunate island, which I called " The Island of Despair;" all
the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself abnost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in amicting myself at the dismal circum-
stances I was brought to; via I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon,
nor place to fly to; and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death
before me--either that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by
savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the approach of night I
slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures ; but slept soundly, though it rained
all night.

October 1.--In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship had, floated
with the high tide, and was driven on shore again much nearer the island;
which, as it was some comfort, on one hand--for, seeing her set upright,
and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board,
and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief--so, on the other
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if
we had all stayed on board, might have saved the ship, or, at least, that they
would not have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men
been savedfwe might perhaps have built us a boat, out of the ruins of the
ship, to have carried us to some other part of the world. I spent great part
of this day in perplexing myself on these things; but, at length, seeing the
ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board. This day also it continued raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 1st of October to the 24th--All these days entirely spent in
many several voyages to get all I could cut of the ship, which I brought on
shore every tide of flood upon rafts. Much rain also in the days, though
with some intervals of fair weather; but it seems this was the rainy season.

Oct. 20.--I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon it; but,
being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many
of them when the tide was out.

. Oct. 25.--It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind;
during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder
72 r
than before, and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that
only at low water. I spent this day in covering and securing. the goods
which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them .

Oct. 26.--I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a place to
fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in the
night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards night, I fixed upon a proper
place, under a rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment; which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification, made of double
piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf.

From the 26thto 80th,Iworkedveryhard in carryingallmygoodsto
my new habitation, though some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard.

The are, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun, to
see for some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and
her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also, because it would
not feed.

November l.----I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the first
night; making it as large as I could, with stakes driven in to swing my
hammock upon.

Nov. 2.--I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces of timber
which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence round me, a little
within the place I had marked out for my fortification,

Nov. 3.--I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducks, which
were very good food. In the afiemoon went to work to make me a table.

Nov. 4.--This morning I began to order my times of work, of going out
with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz. every morning I
walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain; then
employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then eat what I had to
live on; and from twelve till two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessively hot; and then, in the evening, to work again. The working
part of this day and of the next were wholly employed in making my table,
for I was yet but a very sorry workman, though time and necessity made
me a complete natural mechanic seen after, as I believe they would do any
one else. 5 .

Noe. 5.--This day, went abroad with my gun and my dog, and killed a
wild eat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for nothing; every creature
thatIkilled I took ofi'the skins and preservedthem. Comingback by the
sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not understand; but
"'33 5W5. and almost frightened, with We or three seals, which, while

78
I was gazing at, not well knowing what they were, got into the sea, and
escaped me for that time.

JNw 6.--After my morning walk, I went to work with my table again,
and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it long before I learned
to mend it.

Nov. 7.--Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th,
10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday), I took wholly up to
make me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but
never to please me; and even in the making I pulled it in pieces several
times.

Note--I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark
for them on my post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. 13.--This day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly, and cooled
the earth; but it was accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning,
which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was
over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels
as possible, that it might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, lit--These three days I spent in making little square
chests, or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or two pounds at most,
of powder; and so, putting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure
and remote from one another as possible. On one of these three days, I
killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I knew not what to call it

Not. 17.--This day I began to dig behind my tent into the rock, to
make room for my further conveniency.

Note--Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work; viz. a pickaxe,
a show], and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I desisted from my work, and
began to consider how to supply that want, and make me some tools. As
for the pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which were proper enough,
though heavy; but the next thing was a shovel, or spade; this was so'
absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I could do nothing effectually without it ;
but what kind of one to make I knew not.

Nov. 18--The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree of that
wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the iron-tree, for its ex-
ceeding hardness Of this, with great labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I
cut a piece, and brought it home, too, with difficulty enough, for it was
exceeding heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and my having no
other way, made me a. long while upon this machine, for I worked it
effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or spMe; the handle

74
exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the board port'having no'
iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long; however-fit ,
served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but '3
never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long in making. {3%
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow. A basket- 3
Icouldnotmakebyanymeans,havingnosuchthingsastwigs thatwould '
bend to make wieker-ware--at least, none yet found out; and as to a wheel-
barrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel; but that I had no notion
of; neither did I know how to go about it; besides I had no possible way
to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in;
so I gave it over, and so, for carrying away the earth which I dug out of
the cave, I made me a thing like a had which the labourers carry mortar
in when theyservethebricklayers. This wasnot sodifiioulttomeasthe
making the shovel; and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt which I
made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days--I
mean always excepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom
failed, and very seldom failed also bringing home something fit to eat.
N w. 23,--My other work having now stood still, because of my making
these tools, when they were finished I went on, and working every day, as
my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening
and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note--During all this time, I worked to make this room or cave
spacious enough'to accommodate me as a warehouse, or magazine, a kitchen,
a. ' ' -room, and a cellar. As for my lodging, I kept to the tent; except
that sometimes, in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard that I could
not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like-a thatch.
December 10.--I began now to think my cave or vault finished, when on
a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell
down from the top and one side; so much that, in short, it fiighted me--
endnot withoutreason, too, forifIhadbeenunderitIhadneverwanted
8 grave-digger; I had now. a. great deal of work to do over again, for I had
the loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more importanceI had
She ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come
own,
Dec. 11.--This day I went to work with it accordingly, and got two.
shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of boards across
. 75
over each post; this I finished the next day; and setting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured, and the posts,
standing in rows, served me for partitions to part ofi' the house. ,

Dec. 17.--From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and knocked up
nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could be hung up; and now
I began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20.--Now I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some pieces of boards like a dresser, to order my
victuals upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me; also, I made
me another table.

Dec. 24--Much rain all night and all day. N o stirring out.

Dec. 25.--Rain all day.

Dec. 26.---No rain, and the earth much cooler than before and pleasanter.

Dec. 27--Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that I caught it
and led it home in a string; when I had it at home, I bound and splintered
up its leg, which was broke.

N. B. --I took such care of it that it lived, and the leg grew well and as
strong as ever; but, by my nursing it so long, it grew tame, and fed upon
the little green at my door, and would not go away. This was the first
time that I entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures. that
I might have food when my powder and shot was all spent.

_ Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31.-Great heats, and no breeze, so that there was no
stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I spent in putting
all my things in order within doors.

January 1.----Very hot still: but I went abroad early and late with my
gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going tarther
into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I formd there
were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard to come at; how-
ever, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.

Jan. 2.--According1y, the next day I went out with my dog, and set
him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the
dog, and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come near them.

Jan. 3.--I began my fence, or wall; which, being still jealous of my
being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and strong.

N.B.-----This wall being described before, I purposely omit what was said
in the journal; it is sufficient to observe, that I was no less time than from
the 3rd of January to the 14th of April working, finishing, and perfecting

this wall, though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in length.
76CRUIOB SPLINTEBS Tux KID'S LEG.

being a halficircle, from one place in the rock to another place, about eight
yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many days,
nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I should never be perfectly
secure till this wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what inex-
pressiblc labour everything was done with, especially the bringing piles out
of the woods, and driving them into the ground; for I made them much
bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the out-side double-fenced, with a turf
Wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people were to
come on shore there, they would not perceive anything like a habitation;
and it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very
remarkable occasion.

During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game every day

when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries in these walks
77
of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I found a kind of wild
pigeons, which build, not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but rather as house.
pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I endeavoured
to breed them up tame, and did so; but when they grew older they flew
away, which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing
to give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat. And now, in the managing my house-
hold afl'airs, I found myself wanting in many things, which I thought at
first it was impossible for me to make; as, indeed, with some of them it
was: for instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small
runlet or two, as I observed before; but I could never arrive at the capacity
of making one by them, though I spent many weeks about it; I could
neither put in the heads, or join the stoves so true to one another as to make
them hold-water; so I gave that also over. In the next place, I was at a
great loss for candles; so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was
generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the
lump of bees-wax with which I made candles in my African adventure;
but I had none of that now; the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay, which
I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a
lamp ; and this gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle.
In the middle of all my labours it happened that, rummaging my things, I
found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for
the feeding of poultry--not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when
the ship came from Lisbon. The little remainder of corn that had been in
the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but
husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other use
(I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning,
or some such use), I shook the husks of com out of it on one side of
my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned that 'I threw
this stuff away, taking no notice, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown anything there, when, about a month after, or thereabouts, I
saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the ground, which
I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I was surprised, and
perfectly astonished, when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or
twelve ears come out, which were perfect green barley, of the same kind as

our European--nay, as our English barley.
78CRL'SOIZ :5 AWSXSHED A! THE GROWTH OF HARLEY.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my
thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon no religious foun-
dation at all; indeed, I had vex}r few notions of religion in my head, nor had
entertained any sense of anything that had befallen me, otherwise than as
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases God, without so much as in-
quiring into the end of Providence in these things, or His order in governing
events for the world. But after I saw barley grow there, in a. climate
which I knew was not proper for corn, and especially that I knew not how
it came there, it startled me strangely, and I began to suggest that God had
miraculously caused His grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild, miserable
place. '

79
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes, and I
began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature should happen upon
my account; and this was the more strange to me, because I saw near it
still, all along by the side of the rock, some other stragling stalks, which
proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow
in Africa, when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support, but, not doubting that there was more in the place, I went all over
that part of the island where I had been before, peering in every corner, and
under every rock, to see for more of it, but I could not find any. At last it
occurred to my thoughts, that I shook a bag of chickens' meat out in that
place; and then the wonder began to cease; and I must confess, my
religious thankfulness to God's providence began to abate, too, upon the
discovering that all this was nothing but what was common; though I
ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providence,
as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of Providence to
me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should
remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been
dropped from heaven; as also, that I should throw it out in that particular
place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately;
whereas, if I had'thrown it anywhere else, at that time, it had been burnt
up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in their season,
which was about the end of June; and, laying up every com, I resolved to
sow them all again, hoping, in time, to have some quantity, sufficient to
supply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I could
allow myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly,
as I shall say afterwards, in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the first
season, by not observing the proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry
season, so that it never came up at all, at least not as it would have done;
of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice,
which I preserved with the same care and for the same use, or to the same
purpose--to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it
without baking, though I did that also after some time.

- But to return to my Journal :--
I worked excessive hard these three or four months, to get my wall

done; and the ld-th of April, I closed it up, contriving to go into it, not by
so
a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the
outside of my habitation

April 16.--I finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder to the top,
and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the inside. This was a
complete enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could
come at me from without; unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost had all my
labour overthrown at once, and myself killed. The case was thus :--As I
was busy in the inside, behind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave,
I was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for,
all on a sudden, I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of
my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts
I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily
scared; but thought nothing of what was really the cause, only thinking
that the top of my cave was fallen in, as some of it had done before: and
for fear I should be'buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces
of the bill, which I expected might roll down upon me. I had no sooner
stepped down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a terrible
earthquake; for the ground I stood on shook three times at about eight
minutes distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have stood on the earth; and a
great piece of the top of a rock which stood about half a mile from me
next the sea fell down,- with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all
my life. I perceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it;
and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.'

I was so much amazed with the thing itself, having neverrfelt the like,
nor discoursed with any one that had, that I was like one dead or 'stupified;
and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed
at sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, as .it were, and
musing me from the stupiiied condition I was in, filled me with horror; and
I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon my tent and all my
household goods, and burying all at once; and this sunk- my very soul
within me a second time

Afier thethird shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began
to take courage , and yet I had not heart enough to go over my wall again,
for fear of being buried alive, but set still upon the ground greatly cast
down and discpnsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while,- I had not

- 81- a .
the least serious religious thought; nothing but the common "Lord have
mercy upon me i" and when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy, as if it
would rain. Soon after that, the wind arose by little and little, so that in
less than half an hour'it blew a most dreadful hurricane, the sea was all on
a sudden covered over with foam and froth; the shore was covered with
the breach of the water; the trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible
storm it was. This held about three hours, and then began to abate; and
in two hours more it was quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All this
while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified and dejected; when on a
sudden it came into my thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con-
sequences of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and
I might venture into my cave again. With this thought, my spirits began
to revive; and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and sat down
in my tent. But the rain was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten
down with it; and I was forced to go into my cave, though very much
afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head. This violent rain
forced me to a new work, viz. to cut a hole through my new fortification,
like a sink, to let the water go out, which would else have flooded my cave.
After I had been in my cave for some time, and found still no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And now, to support
my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store, and
took a small sup of rum; which, however, I did then and always very spar-
ingly, knowing I could have no more when that was gone. It continued
raining all that night, and great part of the next day, so that I could not
stir abroad; but my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I
had best do; concluding, that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there would be no living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building a
little but in an open place, whichImight surround with a wall, as I had
done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men; for I con-
cluded if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place where
it stood, which was just under the hanging precipice of the hill; and which,
if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent; and I
spent the two next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving
where and how to remove my habitation. The fear of being swallowed up

alive made me that I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of
anTE: CAVE PALLHN} IN. CRUSOB HARE VHS ESCAPE

lying abroad without any fence was almost equal to it; but still, when I
looked about, and saw how everything was put in order, how pleasantly
concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time, it occurred to me that it would require a vast deal of time
for me to do this, and that I must be contented to venture where I was, till
I had formed a. camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it.
So with this resolution I composed myself for a time, and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables,
&c. in a circle, as before, and set my tent up in it, when it was finished;
but that I would venture to stay where I was till it was finished, and fit to
remove This was the let

April 22.--The next morning I began to consider of means to put this
88
resolve into execution; but I was at a great loss about my tools. I had
three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
trafiic with the Indians); but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard
wood, they were all full of notches, and dull; and though I had a. grind-
stone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too. This cost me as much
thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics,
or a judge upon the life and death of a man. At length, I contrived a
wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.

Note--I had never seen any such thing in England, or at least not to
take notice how it was done, though since I have observed it is very
common there; besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy.
This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29.-----These two whole days I took up in grinding my tools,
my machine for turning my grindstone performing very well.

April 80,--Having perceived my bread had been low a great while, now
I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy. '

May l.-----In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide being
low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked
like a cask; when I came to it, I found a small W, and two or three
pieces of the wreck of the ship; which were driven on shore by the late
hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined the barrel which
was driven on shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it
had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone: however, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present-and went on upon the sands, as
near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed The
forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least six feet,
and the stern, which was broke in pieces and parted from the rest by the
force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were,
up, and cast on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on'that side
next her.stern, that whereas there was a great place of water before, so that
I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming,
1- could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out. I was surprised
with this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake;

and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than formerly, so
84
many things came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and which
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my
habitation, and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, in searching
whether I could make any way into the ship; but I found nothing was to
be expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship was choked up with
sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of anything, I resolved to
pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that everything
I could get from her would be of some use or other to me. . .

May 3.----I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through,
which I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together, and
when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could from
the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give
over for that time. '

May 4.--I went a--fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat of, till
I was weary of my sport; when, just going to leave ofi, I caught a young
dolphin. I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no hooks ;
yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat ; all which I
dried in the sun, and ate them dry.

May 5.--Worked on the wreck; out another beam asunder, and brought
three great fir planks ofi' from the decks, which I tied together, and made to
float on shore when the tide of flood came on.

May 6.--Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of her, and
other pieces of iron-work. Worked very hard, and came home very much
tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.

May 7.---Went to the wreck again, not with an intent to work, but
found the weight of the wreck had broke itself down, the beams being cut;
that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold
lay so open that I could see into it; but it was almost full of water
and sand.

May 8.--Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up the
deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or sand. I wrenched open two
planks, and brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the iron crew
in the wmck for next day. _

May 9.--Went to the wreck, and with the crowmade way into the body
of the wreck, and felt several easks, and loosened them with the crow, but
could not break them up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir

it. but it was too heavy to remove.
35.
May 10--14.--Went every day to the wreck; and got a great many
pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or three hundredweight
of iron.

May 15.----I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a. piece off
the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the
other; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not make
any blow to drive the hatchet.

May 16.--It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck appeared more
broken by the force of the water; but I stayed so long in the woods, to get
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented my going to the wreck that day.

May 17.----I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a great
distance, near two miles ofi' me, but resolved to see what they were, and
found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

May 24L--Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck; and with
hard labour I loosened some things so much with the crow, that the first
blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests; but
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces
of timber, and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt
water and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day to the
15th of June, except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I had got
timber and plank and ironwork enough to have built a good boat, if I
had known how; and also I got, at several times and in several pieces,
near one hundredweight of the sheet-lead.

J1me 16.--Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tortoise, or turtle.
This was the first I had seen, which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not
any defect of the place, or scarcity; for had I happened to be on the other
side of the island, I might have had hundreds of them every day, as I found
afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them

June 17.--I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her threescore eggs;
and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury and pleasant that
ever I tested in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I
landed in this horrid place. '

June 18.--Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought, at this time,
the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly; which I knew was not usual
in that latitude.

J1me 19.--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been cold.
as.7. 2).",-

Cnvum nzmxs To m: "L.

June 20.-----N0 rest all night; violent; pains in my head, and feverish.

J7me 2l.--Very ill; frighted almost; to death with the apprehensions of
my and condition--to be sick, and no help. Frayed to God, for the first
time since the storm ofl' Hull, but scarce knew what I said, 01' why, my
thoughts being all confused.

J une 22,--A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness.

June 23,--Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a, violent
headache.

June 2h--Much better.

June 25.--An aguc very violent: the fit hold me seven hours ; cold fit
and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26.-----Better; and having no \'ictuals to out, took my gun, but
found myself very weak. However, I killed a she-goat, and with much

87
difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I would fain have
stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

J mw 27,--The ague again so violent that I lay a--bed all day, and
neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so weak, I had
not strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Frayed to
God again, but was light-headed; and when I was not, I was so ignorant
that I knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, " Lord, look upon me!
Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me 3 " I suppose I did nothing else
for two or three hours; till, the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not
wake till far in the night. \Vhen I awoke, I found myself much refreshed,
but weak, and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water in my habita-
tion, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again In this
second sleep, I had this terrible dream :--I thought that I was sitting on the
ground, on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after
the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in
a bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground. He was all over as bright
as a flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards him ; his counte-
nance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe.
When he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,
just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked, to my
apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He was no sooner
landed upon the earth, but he moved forward towards me, with a long spear
or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground,
at some distance, he spoke to inc--or I heard a voice so terrible that it is
impossible to express the terror of it All that I can say I understood, was
this :--"Seeing all these things have not brought thee to repentance, now
thou shalt die ; "--at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was
in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should be
able to describe the honors of my soul at this terrible vision. I mean, that
even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors. Nor is it any
more possible to describe the impression that remained upon my mind when
I awaked, and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by the good
instruction of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for
eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation with none
but such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do

not remember that I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as
88
tended either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards towards a redec-
tion upon my own ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of
good, or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common
sailors can be supposed to be; not having the least sense, either of the fear
of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to God, in deliverance

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more
easily believed, when I shall add, that through all the variety of miseries
that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much as one thought of it
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin. My
rebellious behaviour against my father--or my present sins, which were
great--or so much as a punishment for the general course of my wicked
life. When I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa,
I never had so much as one thought of what would beeomeof me, or one
wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from the
danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures
as cruel savages But I was merely thoughtless of a God or 9. Providence,
acted like a mere brute, from the principles of nature, and by the dictates of
common sense only, and, indeed, hardly that. When I was delivered and
taken up at sea by the Portugal captain, well used. and dealt justly and
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not the least thankfulness in
my thoughts. When, again, I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of!
drowning, on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking on it as a
judgment. I only said to myself ofien, that I was an unfortunate dog, and
born to be always miserable.

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found all my ship's crew
drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and
some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might have
come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it began, in a mere com-
mon flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the least
reflection upon the distinguished goodness-of the hand which had preserved
me, and had singled me out to be preserved when all'the rest were destroyed,
or an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful unto me. Even just
the some common sort of joy which seamen generally have, after they are
got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch,,and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my life
was like it Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made

sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place. Nit of the
89
reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, as
soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not starve and
perish for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore ofl' ; and I began to be
very easy, applied myself to the works proper for my preservation and
supply, and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition, as a
judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God against me: these were
thoughts which very seldom entered my head

The growing up of the com, as is hinted in my J ournal. had, at first,
some little influence upon me, and began to afl'ect me with seriousness, as
long as I thought it had something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever
that part of the thought was removed, all the impression that was raised
from it were off also, as I have noted already. Even the earthquake, though
nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing
to the invisible power which alone directs such things, yet no sooner was
the first fright over, but the impression it had made went off also. I had no
more sense of God, or His judgments--much less of the present affliction of
my circumstances being from His hand--than if I had been in the most
prosperous condition of life. But now, when I began to be sick, and a.
leisurely view of the miseries of death came to place itself before me; when
my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my past life, in
which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the justice
of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so
vindictive a manner. These reflections oppressed me for the second or
third day of my distemper; and in the violence, as well of the fever as of
the dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words from me
like praying to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended
with desires or with hopes: it was rather the voice of mere fright and
distress. My thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon my mind,
- and the horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised vapours into
my head with the mere apprehension; and in these hurries of my soul, I
knew not what my tongue might express. But it was rather exclamation,
such as, "Lord, what a miserable creature am I! If I should be sick, I
shall certainly die for want of help; and what will become of me?" Then
the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, and

presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of this story.
90 'CRUSOZ KI PIX-Lu) WITH REIGN: NR 81!! PM?! LIP);

r22. that if I did take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and I
would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel,
when there might be none to assist in my recovery. "New," said I, aloud,
"my dear father's words are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken me,
and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence,
which had mercifully put me in a posture or station of life wherein I might
have been happy and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to
know the blessing of it from my parents. I left them to mourn over my
folly, and now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused
their help and assistance, who would have lifted me in the world, and would
have made everything easy to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle
with, too great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help,
no comfort, no advice." Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in
great distress." This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had

made for many years.
91
But to return to my Journal :--

JW 28.---Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had,
and the fit being entirely off, I got up; and though the fright and terror of
my dream was very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague would
return again the next day, and now was my time to get something to refresh
and support myself when I should be ill; and the first thing I did, I filled
a large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of
my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I
got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat
very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and
heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return
of my distemper the next day. At night, I made my supper of three of the
turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the shell,
and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to, that I
could remember, in my whole life. After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but
found myself so weak, that I could hardly carry a gun, for I never went out
without that; so I went but a. little way, and sat down upon the ground,
looking out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to Inez--What
is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so much? Whence is it pro-
duced? And what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human
and brutal? Whence are we? Sure we are all made by some secret power,
who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is that? Then it
followed most naturally, it is God that has made all. Well, but then, it
came on strangely, if God has made all these things, He guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for the power that could make
all things must certainly have power to guide and direct them. If so, nothing
can happen in the great circuit of His works, either without His knowledge
or appointment.

And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that I am
here, and am in this dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without
His appointment, He has appointed all this to befal me. Nothing occurred
to my thought to contradict any of these conclusions, and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs be that God had
appointed all this to befal me; that I was brought into this miserable
circumstance by His direction, He having the sole power, not of me only,

but of everything that happened in the world Immediately it followed,--
92 rOF BONE OBVSOI.

Why has God done this to me? What have I done to be thus used? My
conscience presently. checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed,
and methought it spoke to me like a voice--" Wretchl dost than ask what
thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyselt,
what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it that thou wert not long ago do.
strayed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the
fight when the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war; devoured by the
wild beasts on the com of Africa; or drowned here, when all the crew
perished but thyself? Dost flum ask, What have I done?" I was struck
dumb with these reflections, as one astonished, and had not a word to say,
-no, not to answer to myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to
my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but
my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I
sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified me very much.
it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take no physio but their
tobacco for almost all distempers, and I had a piece of a roll of tobmoo in
one of the cheats, which was quite cured, and some also that was green, and
not quite cured. .

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest I found a cure
both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I looked for,
the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too, I took out one
of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and which to this time I had not
found leisure or inclination to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought
both that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of the
tobacco I knew not, in my distemper, or whether it was good for it or no;
but I tried severalexperiments withit, asif Iwas resolved it shonldhit
one way or- other. I first took a piece of leaf, and chewed it in my month,
which, indeed, at first almost stupified my brain, the tobacco being green
and strong, and that I had not been much used to. Then I took some and
steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it
when I lay down; and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it, as well for the
heat, as almost for suffocation. In the interval of this operation, I took up
the Bible, and began to read; but my head was too much disturbed with
the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having Opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me were these, "Call on me

in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify-me."
as ,
These words were very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as they did after-
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to
me ; the thing,r was so remove, so impossible in my apprehension of things,
that I began to say, as the children of Israel did when they were promised
flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" so I began to say,
"Can God himself deliver me from this place?" And as it was not fm

 

CHUWB 31395 A BIBLE.

many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailed very often upon my
thoughts; but, however, the words made a great impression upon me, and I
mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I
said, dozed my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so I left my lamp
burning in the cove, lest I should want anything in the night, and went to
bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life--J
kueeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called

upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver inc. After my broken and
94
imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the
tobacco, which wasso strong and rank of the tobacco that I could scarcely
get it down; immediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently it flew
up into my head violently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked no
more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next day--nay, to this hour I am partly of opinion that I slept
all the next day and night, and till almost three the day after; for other-
wise, I know not how I should lose a. day out of my reckoning in the days
of the week, as it appeared some years after I had done; for if I had lost
it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should have lost more than one
day; but certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew which way,
Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found myself
exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful; when I got up
I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was
hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the next day,but continued much altered
for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went abroad with my gun,
but did not care to travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like
a brand goose, and brought them home; but was not very fom'ard to cat
them; so I eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This
evening I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me good the day
before--the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before,
nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke; however,
I was not so well the next day, which was the first of July, as I hoped I
should have been; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not
much. '

J uly 2.--I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and dosed myself
with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank. .

July 3.--I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not recover in
full strength for some weeks after. While I was thus gathering strength my
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the
impossibility ,of my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it; but as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts, it
occurred to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance from the
main afliiction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had received, and I was
as it were made to ask myself such questions as these; via: Have I not
been delivered, and wonderfufly too, from sickness--from the most distressed

condition that could be, and that was so frightful to me? and what notice
95
had I taxen of it? Had I done my part? God had delivered me, but I had
not glorified Him--that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for
that as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater deliverance? This
touched my heart very much; and immediately I knelt down, and gave God
thanks aloud for my recovery from my sickness.

July 4.----In the morning, I took the Bible ; and, beginning at the New
Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a
while every morning and every night; not tying myself to the number of
chapters, but long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not long after
I set seriously to this work, till I found my heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The impression of my dream
revived ; and the words, " All these things have not brought thee to
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly beging of God
to give me repentance, when it happened providentially, the very day, that,
reading the Scripture, I came to these words: " He is exalted a Prince and
a Saviour, to give repentance and to give remission." I threw down the
book; and with my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind
of exstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou
exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance l" This was the first time
I could say, in the true sense of the words, that I prayed in all my life;
for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and a true scripture view of'
hope, founded on the encoumement of the Word of God; and from this
time, I may say, I began to have hope that God would hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, " Call on me, and
I will deliver thee," in a different sense from what I had ever done before;
for then I had no notion of anything being called deliverance, but my being
delivered from the captivity I was in ; it: though I was indeed at large in
the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worse
sense in the world. But now I learned to take it in another sense : now I
looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared so
dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load
of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing ', I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it ;
it was all of no consideration, in comparison to this. And I add this part
here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true
sense of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing
than deliverance from afllietion.

But, leaving this part, I return to my Journal :--

96CKL'SOE I'RAYS.

My condition vegan now to be, though not less miserable as in my way
"1' living. yet much easier to my mind: and my thoughts being directed, by
:1 l'IIllS'lllJH'. reading the Scriptun: and praying to God, 10 things of a higher
mnurv, I had :i gum kll'lll of mnn'urL within, which, till now, I knew nothing
..1'; ulsn. my hualhh and strength rchn'nud, l bestii'i'cd myself to furnish
mysi'll' \viih mwryihing that l united, and nnike my way of living as
I'-\;nl:x1' as I (mild.

 

97 H
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in walking
about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be
imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The appli-
cation which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps which had never
cured an ague before; neither can I recommend it to any to practise, by this
experiment: and though it did carry 06 the fit, yet it rather contributed to
weakening me; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for
some time. I learned from it also this, in particular, that being abroad
in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could
be, especially in those rains which came attended with storms and hurri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry season was almm
always accompanied with such storms, so I found that rain was much more
dangerous than the rain which fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months. All possibility
of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me;

, and I firmly believe that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place.
Having now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had
a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see
what other productions I might find, which I yet knew nothing at:

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular survey
of the island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought
my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide
did not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of
running water, very fresh and good; but this being the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it--at least, not enough to run in any
stream, so as it could be perceived 0n the banks of this brook, I foam
many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered wi
grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds, where
the water, as might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of
sobaeco, green, and growing to a great and very strong stalk. There were
divers other plants, which I had no notion of or understanding about, that
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find out. I
searched for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that climate, make
their bread of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did
not understand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of
cultivation, imperfect I contented myself with these discoveries for this

time, and came back, musing with myself what course I might take to know
9801' romeo: 01317801

the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should
discover, but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants
in the field; at least, very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again, and, afier going
something further than I had gone the day before, I found the brook and
savannehs cease, and the country become more woody than before. In this
part, I found different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the
ground; in great abundance, and. grapes upon the trees. The vines had
spread, indeed, over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now in
their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I
was exceeding glad of them; but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them, remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary, the
eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were slaves there,
by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. But I found an excellent use for
thesegrapes; andthatwas,to cure ordrytheminthe sun, and keep them
as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they
were, wholesome and agreeable to eat when no grapes could be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habitation;
which, by the way, was the first night, as I might say, I had lain from home.
In the night, I took my first contrivance, and got up in a tree, where I
slept well; and the next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling
nearly four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping still
due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north side of me. At the
end of this march, I came to an opening, where the country seemed to

ascend to the west; and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of
the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the
country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in a
constant verdure or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale surveying it with a
secret kind of pleasure, though mixed-with my other afflicting thoughts, to
thinkthat this was all my own; thathaskingandlordofallthis
country indefeasibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey
it, I might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a manor in
England: I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange, and lemon, and
citron-trees; but all wild, and very few bearing any fruit, at least not then.
However, the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasantto eat, but

99 .
very wholesome; and I mixed their juiee afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found new I had
business enough, to gather and carry home ; and I resolved to lay up a store
as well of grapes as limes and leinons, to furnish myself for the wet season,
which I knew was approaching. In order to do this, I gathered a great heap
of grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a great parcel of
limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few of each with me, I
travelled homewards; resolving: to come again, and bring a bag or sack,
or what I' could make, to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent
three days in this journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent and
my care) ; but. before I got thither the grapes Were spoiled; the richness of
the fruit and the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothine,r : as to the limes, they were good,
but I could bring but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me two small
bags to bring,r home my harvest; but. I was surprised, when coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and line when I gathered them, to find
them all spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten aml devoured. By this, I concluded there were
some wild creatures thereahouts, which had done this ; but what they were
[ knew not. However, as I found there was. no laying them up on heaps,
and no carrying them away in a. sack, but that one way they would be
destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight,
I tool: another course; for I gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the out branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry
in the sun ; and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as
I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasantness of the situa-
tion; the security from storms on that side the water, and the wood: and
concluded that. I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode, which was by
far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and looking out for a place equally safe as where
now I was situate, if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.

This thought ran longr in my head, and I was exceeding fond of it for
seine time, the pleasantncss of the place tempting me; but when I came to
a nearer view of it, I considered that I was now by the sea-side, where it

was at least possible that something might happen to my advantage; and.
100. CRL'EOE TAKES ILDIOIFB PARTICULAR SURVEY OF THE "LAKE.

by the; siune 'ill fate that brought me hither, might bring. some othef
unhappy} wretches to the same place; and though it was scarce probable that
any suchthing should ever happen, yet to inclose myself among the hills

and woods in the centre of the island,,was _to anticipate my bondage, and te
101
render such an affair not only improbable, but impossible; and that there.
fore I ought not by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured
of this place, that I spent much of my time there for the whole of the
remaining part of the month of July; and though, upon second thoughts,
I resolved not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a. bower, and sur-
rounded it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high
as I could reach, well staked, and filled between with brushwood; and here
I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together; always going
over it with a ladder; so that I fancied now I had my country house and
my sea-coast house; and this work took me up to the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my labour, when
the rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habitation; for
though I had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and
spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from
storms, nor a. cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extra-
ordinary. ,

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my bower, and
began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I had hung
up perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun; so
I began to take them down from the trees, and it was very happy that I did
so, for the rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I had lost
the best part of my winter food; for I had above two hundred large
bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most
of them home to my cave, than it began to rain; and from hence, which
was the 14th of August, it rained, more or less, every day till the middle of
October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave
for small days.

In this season. I was much surprised with the increase of my family;
I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me,
or, as I thought, had been dead, and I heard no more tidings of her, till,
to my astonishment, she came home about the and of August, with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, though I had killed a
wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a difi'erent
kind from our European cats; but the young cats were the same kind of
house-breed as the old one; and both my cats being females, I thought
itvery strange. Butfmmthese threeeats, Iafierwardsoametobeso
pester-ed with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild

beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as possible. ,
102
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that I could not
stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In this confinement,
I began to be straitened for food: but venturing out twice, I one day killed
a goat; and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise,
which was a treat to me, and my food was regulated thus :--I ate a bunch
of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for
my dinner, broiled; for, to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or
stew anything; and two or three of the tnrtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked daily two or
three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came in and out this way.
But I' was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for, as I had managed
myself before, I was in a perfect inelosure ; whereas now, I thought I lay
exposed, and open for anything to come in upon me; and yet I could not
perceive that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I
had yet seen upon the island being a goat .

Sept. 30.---I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of my landing.
I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had been on shore three
hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it
apart for religious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground with the most
serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his righteous
judgments upon me, and praying to him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ; and not having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even
till the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of
grapes,and went to bed,finishing the dayas I began it. 'I hadallthis
time observed no Sabbath-day; for as at first I had no sense of religion
upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by
making a longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not
really know what any of the days were; but now, having cast up the days
asabove, I found I had been there ayear; so I divided it into weeks, and
set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath; though I found at the end of
my account, I had'lost a day ortwo in my reckoning. Alittle afterthis,
my ink began to fail me, and so Icontented myselftouae it more sparingly,
and to write down only the most remarkable events of my life, without
continuing a daily memorandum of other things. .

Therainyseasonandthsdryseasonbegannowtoappearregulsr
me. and I learned to divide themso-as to provide for themaecordingly; .

to: .
but I bought all my experience before I had it, and this I am going to
relate was one of the most discouraging experiments that I made.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice,
which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves,
and I believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of
barley; and now I thought it a proper time to sow it, after the rains, the
sun being in its southern position, going from me. Accordingly, I dug up
a piece of ground as well as I could with my wooden spade, and dividing it
into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred
to my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not know
when was the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed,
leaving about a handful of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards
that I did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time came to anything:
for the dry months following, the earth having had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all
till the wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been but
newly sown. Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined
was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to makeranother
trial in, and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the
rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this
having the rainy months of March and April to water it, sprung up very
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having part of the seed left
only, and not daring to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at
last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peek of each kind. But
by this experiment I was made master of my business, and knew exactly
when the proper season was to sow, and that I might expect two seed. times;
and two harvests every year. '

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,- which. was of
use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the weather
began to settle, which was about the month-of November, I made a: visit up
the country to my bower, where, though I' had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that 'I asu-
made was not only firm and entire, but the" stakes which I had cut out-ct
some trees that grew thereabouts, were all shot out' and grown with long
branches, as much as a willow-tree. usually shoots the- first year other
lopping its head. I could not tell what tree- to call it that these-stakes
were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the ybhng
trees grow: and I pruned them, and ledthem upAto grow asrmueh alike-u

loo
I could, and it is scarce credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in
three years; so that though the hedge made a' circle of about twenty-five
wads in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon
covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the
dry season. This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make
me a hedge like this, in a semi-circle round my wall (I mean that of
my first dwelling). which I did; and placing the trees or stakes in a
double row, at about eight yards distance from my first fence, they grew
presently, and were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards
served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and
the dry seasons, which were generally thus .h--

The half of February, the whole of March, and the half of April--rainy,
the sun being then on or near the equinox.

The half of April, the whole of May, June, and July, and the half of
August--dry, the sun being then to the north of the Line.

The half of August, the whole of September, and the half of October---
rainy, the sun being then come back.

The half of October, the whole of November, December, and January.
and the half of February--dry, the sun being then to the south of
the Line.

The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter as the winds
happened to blow, but this was the general observation I made. After
I had found, by experience, the ill consequences of being abroad in the
rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might
not be obliged to- go out, and I sat within doors as much as possible
during the wet months. This time I found much employment, and very
suitable also to the time, for I found great occasion for many things which
I had no 'way to furnish myself with but by hard labour and constant
application; particularly I tried many ways to make myself- a basket, but
all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would
do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I
was a boy, I used to take great delight' 1n standing at a basket-maker's, in
the town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware>>, and
being,asboys-usuallya1e,veryoficioustohelp,andagreatobserver
of the manner in which they worked those things, and sometimes lending

a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods of mend?
1'0"
I wanted nothing but the materials, when it came into my mind that the
twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that grew might possibly
be as tough as the sallows, willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved
to try. Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house, as I
called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my
purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came the next time
prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for
there was great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or
hedge, and when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I could,
a great many baskets, both to carry earth or to carry or lay up anything,
as I had occasion; and though I did not finishthem very handsomely,
yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus,
afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I made more, especially strong deep baskets to place my com in,
instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world' of time about it,
I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to supply two wants. I had no
vessels to hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets, which were
almost full of rum, and some glass bottles--some of the common size, and
others which were case--bottles, square, for the holding of water, spirits, &c.
I had not so much as a pot to boil anything, except a great kettle, which I
saved out of the ship, and which was too big for such as I desired it, viz.
to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I fain
would have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible to me to make
one; however, I found a contrivance for that, too, at last. I employed
myself in planting my second rows of stakes or piles, and in this wicker-
working all the summer or dry season, when another business took me up
more time than it could be imagined I could spare.

I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the whole island, and
that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I
now resolved to travel quite across to the seashore on that side ; so, taking
my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot
than usual, with two biscuit cakes and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch
for my store, I began my journey. When I had passed the vale where my
bower stood, as above, I came within view of the sea to the west, and it

being a very clear day, I fairly descried land--whether an island or a
106CRUBOI m A NY WATCH" THE "MIXER-MAKERS AT WORL

continent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from the W'
to the W.S.W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than
that I knew it must be part of America, and, as I concluded, by all my
observations, must be near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all
inhabited by savages, where, if I had landed, I had been in a worse con-
dition than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which I began now to own and to believe ordered everything
for the best; I say I quieted my mind with this, and left off afflicting
myself with fruitless wishes of being there.

Besides, after some thought upon this afi'air, I considered that if this
107
land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other, see some
vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage
coast between the Spanish country and Brazils, where are found the worst
of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder
and devour all the human bodies that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, I walked very leisurely forward. I found
that side of tho island where I now was much pleasanter than mine--the
open or savannah fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of
very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would have. caught.
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to me. I
did, after some painstaking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down
with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home; but it was some
years before 1 could make him speak; however, at last, I taught him to call
me by name very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though it be
a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low
grounds hares (as I thought them to be) and foxes; but they difi'ered
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with, nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several But I had no need to be
venturous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was very good, too,
especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise,
which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall--market could not have furnished
a table better than I, in proportion to the company; and though my
case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness that I
was not driven to any extremities for food, but had rather plenty, even
to dainties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in a day, or
thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns to see what discoveries
I could make, that I came weary enough to the place where I resolved
to sit down all night; and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or
surrounded myself with a mm of stakes set upright in the ground, either
from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me
without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I had
taken up my lot on the-worst side of theisland, for here, indeed, the shore
was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas on the- other side I had
found but three in a year and a- half. Here was also an infinite number of

fowls of many kinds. some which I had seen, and some which I>> had not
108
seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew not the
names of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my
powder and shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could,
which I could better feed on ; and though there were many goats here, more
than on my side the'island, yet it was with much more difliculty that I

could come near them, the country being flat and even, and they saw me
much soonei than when I was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine; but
yet I had not the least inclination to remove, for as I was fixed in my
habitation it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here
to be as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I travelled
along the shore of the sea towards the east, I- suppose about twelve miles,
and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for- a mark, I concluded
I would go home again, and that the next journey I took should be on the
other side of the island east from my dwelling, and so round till I came to
my post again.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep all the island so much' in my view, that I could not miss finding
my first dwelling by viewing the country; but I found myself mistaken,
for, being some about two or three miles, I found myself descended into a
very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
wood, that I could not see which was my way by any direction but that
of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well the position of the sun
at that time of the day. It happened, to my further misfortune, that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days while -I was in the valley, and
not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at
last was obliged to find the swside, look for my post,'and come back the
some way I went: and then, by easy journeys, I turned homeward, the
weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things, very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it; and
I, running in to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from the dog.
I had a. great mind to bring it home if I could, for I had often beenmusing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot should be
allspent. Imadea collarforthis little creature, and witha string,whieh

I made of some rope-yarn, which I always carded about me, I led him
100
along, though with some difliculty,.till I came to my bower, and there I
inclosed him and left him, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old
hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed. This little wandering journey,
without settled place of abode, had been so.unpleasant to me, that my own
house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settlement to me compared to
that; and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I resolved I
would never go a great way from it again, while it should be my lot to stay
on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself alter my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty affair
of making a cage for my Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to
be well acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the'poor kid which
I had penned in within my little circle, and resolved to go and fetch it
home, or give it some food; accordingly I went, and found it where I left
it, for indeed it could not get out, but was almost starved for want of food.
I went and out boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it
away; but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need to have
tied it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the
creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from that
time one of my domestics also, and would never leave me afierwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and I kept
the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, being the
anniversary of my landing on the island, having now been there two years,
and no more prospect of being delivered than the first day I came there. I
spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the many
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was attended with, and
without which it might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble
and hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me that it was
possible I might be more happy in this solitary condition than I should
have been in the liberty of society and in all the pleasures of the world;
that He could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and
the want of human- society, by His presence and the communications of His
grace to my soul; supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to depend
upon Bis providence here, and hope for His eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy this
no '0' some]! 0311303.

life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the wicked,
cursed, abominable life I led all the put part of my days; andnow I
changed both my sorrows and my jays; my very desires altered, my affec-
tions changed their gusts, and my delights were perfectly new from what
they were at my first coming, or, indeed, for the two years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for viewing the
country, the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me
on a sudden, and my veryheart would die within me, to-think of the woods,
the mountains, the deserts I was in, and how I was a prisoner, looked up
with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabiwd wilderness,
without redemption. In the midst of the greatest composure of my mind,
this would break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands
and weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon 'the
ground for an hour or two together; and this was still worse to me,'for if I
could burst out into tears, or vent myself by words, it would go off, and the
grief, having exhausted. itself, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts: I daily read
the word of God, and applied all the comforts of it to my present state.
One morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words, "I will
never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee." Immediately it occurred that
these words were to me; why else should they be directed in such a
manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my condition, as
one forsaken of God and man? " Well, then," said I, "if God does not
forsake me, of what ill consequence can it .be, or what matters it, though
the world should all forsake me, seeing on the other hand, if I had all the
world, and should lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be no'
comparison in the loss?" .

From this moment, I began to conclude in my mind, that it was
possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than
it was probable I should ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thought I was going to give thanks to God for
bringing melto this place. I know not what it was, but something shocked
my mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words. "How canst
thou become such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly, "to pretendto be
thankful for a condition, which, however. thou mayest endeavour to be _
contented with, thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered front",

So I stopped there, but though I- 643qu not say I thanked God for being >>-
. ' 111
there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever
afflicting providences, to see the former condition of my life, and to mourn
for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but
my very soul within me blessed God for directing my friend in England,
without any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assisting
me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account
of my works this year as the first; yet in general it may be observed, that
I was very seldom idle, but having regularly divided my time according to
the several daily employments that were before me, such as, first, my duty
to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some
time for, thrice every day; secondly, the going abroad with my gun for
food, which generally took me up three hours in every morning, when it did
not rain; thirdly, the ordering, cutting, preserving, and cooking, what I had
killed or caught for my supply: these took up great part of the day. Also,
it is to be considered, that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about
four hours in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work in,
with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun
in the afternoon

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many hours which for want of
tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything I did took up out of my
time. For example, I was full two and forty days in making a board for a
long shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas, two sawyers, with their
tools and a saw--pit, would have out six of them out of the same tree
in half a day. .

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one This tree I was three days in
cutting down, and two more cutting of!" the boughs, and reducing it to a log,
or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced
both the sides of it into chips till it began to be light enough to move;
then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from
end to end; then, turning that side downward, cut the other side till I
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both

sides. Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of
112CIIUSOR 18 COMFORTBD BY "IS RIIIIJL

work; but labour and patience carried me through that, and many other
things. I only observe this in particular, to show the reason why so much
of my time went away with so little work, viz. that what might be a. little
to be done with help and'tools, was avast labour and required a. prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with patience
and labour I got through everything that my circumstances made necessary
to me to do, as will appear by what follows.

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting my
amp of barley and rice. The ground I had manured and dug up for them
was not great; for, as , I observed, my seed of each was not above the
Quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry
season. But now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I found

I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it.
113 I
was scarcely possible to keep from it; as, first the goats, and wild creatures
which I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no time~
to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure abdut it with a
hedge; which I did with a great deal of toil, and the more, because it
required speed. However, as my arable land was but small, suited to my
crop, I got it totally well fenced in about three weeks' time; and shooting
some of the creatures in the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all
night long; so in a little time, the enemies forsook the place, and the corn
grew very strong and well, and began to ripen space.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade, so
the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for, going
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded
with fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching
till I should be gone. I immediately let fly among them, for I always had
my gun with me, I had no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they would
devour all my hopes; that I should be starved, and never be able to raise a
crop at all; and what todo I could not tell: however, I resolved notto
lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day. ' In the
first place, I went among it, to see what damage was already done, and
found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too green
for them, the loss was not so great but that the remainder was likely to
be a good crop, if it could be saved

I stayed by it to load my gun, and than coming away, I could easily see
the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they only waited till
I was gone away, and the event proved it to be so ; for as I walked of, as
if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight, than they dropped down
one by one into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could not have
patience to stay till more came on, knowing that every grain that they eat
now was, as it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the consequence; but
coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three of them. This was
what I wished for; so I took them up, and served them as we serve
notorious thieves in England--hanged them in chains, for a terror to others.

It is impossible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it had
114
for the fowls would not only not come at the corn, but. in short, they forsook
allthat part of the island, and I could neverseeabird neartheplaceas
long as my scarecrows hung there This Iwasveryglad ofiyoumaybe
sure, and about thelatterend of December, whiehwasourseoond harvest
ofthe year, I reaped my corn.

Iwassadly putto it for a scytheorsickletocutitdomaudall
Icoulddowastomakeonaaswell as I could, out of one of the broad-
swords, or outlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the ship
However, as my first crop was but small, I had no great difficulty to out it
down; in short, I reaped it in my way, for I out nothing ofi' but the ears,
and carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it
outwith myhands; andatthe endof all myharvesting. I ftmnd thatont
of my half-peck of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and about two
bushels and a half of barley; that is to say, by my guesafor I had no
measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I foresaw that, in
time, it would please God to supply me with bread. And yet here I was'
perplexed again, for I neither knew how to grind, or make meal of my corn,
or indeed, how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; andif howtomakeit, yetIknewnothowtobake it. These
things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop. but to
preserve it all forseed against thenext season; and,inthemeantime,to
employ all my study and hours' of working to accomplish this great work 0!
providing myself with corn and bread. ,

Itmightbetrulysaid, thatnowI worked formybread. Ibelievehw
people have thought much upon the strange multitude of little things
necessary in the providing. producing, curing. dressing, making, and
finishing this one article of bread.

Lthet wasreduced to a more state of naturafound this to mydaily
discouragement; and was made more sensible of it every hour, even after
I had got the first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth--no spade or shovel todig
it. WelLthis I conquered by making meawooden spade. as I obsa'ved
before; but this did my work but m a wooden manner; and though it cost
meagreatmmydaystomakeityetforwantof 1ron, itnotonlyworeout

soon, but made my work the harder, and made it be performed much worse.
115
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it out with patience,
and bear with the badness of the performance. When the corn was sown,
I had no barrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great
heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called, rather than
rake or barrow it. When it was growing, and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the chaff, and save it. Then
I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it; but all these things I did without,'as shall
be observed; and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to
me too. All this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious to me;
but that there was no help for. Neither was my time so much less to me,
because, as I had divided it, a certain pm of it was every day appointed to
these works; and as I had resolved to use none of the corn for bread till
I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply myself
wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with utensils proper for

the performing all the operations necessary for making the corn, when I had
it, fit for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at least to
make me a spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and
very heavy, and required double labour to work with it. However, I got
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near
my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off that wood which I had set before,
and knew it would grow; so that, in a year's time, I knew I should have a
quick or living hedge, that would want but little repair. This work did
not take me up less than three months, because a great part of that time
was the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Withimdoors, that is
when it rained, and I could not go out, I found employment in the
following occupations--always observing, that all the while I was at work,
Idivertedmyselfwith talking to my parrot,and teaching him to speak;
and I quickly taught him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, "Poll," which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the
island by any month but my own. This, therefore, was not my work, but
an assistance to my work; for now, as I said, I had a great employment
upon my hands, as follows: I had long studied to make, by some means or

other, some earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely, but knew not
us
where to come at them. However, considering the heat of- the climate,
I did not doubt but if I could find out any clay, I might make some pots
that might, being dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to
bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and required to be kept
so; and as this was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c. which was

 

CflUSOS Anxum 10 "AK! BARTHZNWLRK

the thing I was doing, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit
only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how
many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly
things I made; how many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay

not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the
117
over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell
in pieces with only removing, as well before as after they were dried; and,
in a word, how, after having laboured hard to find the clay--to dig it, to
temper it, to bring it home, and work it--I could not make above two large
earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifl'ed them
very gently up, and set them down again 'in two great wicker baskets,
which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as
between the pot and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stufl'ed it
full of the rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand always
dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the
corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made
several smaller things with better success; such as little round pots, flat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any things my hand turned tn; and the
heat of the sun baked them quite hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen pot
to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire--which none of these could do.
It happened after some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken
piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard asa stone,
andred as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to myself,
that certainly they might be made to burn whole, if they would burn
broken. .

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn some
pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing
them with lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed three
large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile, one upon another, and
placed my firewood all round it with a great heap oPS 'embers under them.
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till
I saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and observed that they
did not crack at all. When I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that
heat about five or six hours, till I found-one of them, though it did not
crack, did melt or run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted
by the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I had gone on ;
so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red colour;
and, watching them all night, that I might not let the fire abm too fast,'

in the morning I had three very good (I will not say handsome) pipkins',
113or norms 'cnusor.

and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and one of
them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand -

Afterthis experiment, Ineednot saythnt Iwauted nosort of earthen
wareformyuse; butImustneedssayastotheshapesofthem, theywere
very indifl'erent, as any one may suppose, when I had no way of making
thembut asthe children make dirtpiee,oras awomauwould make pies
that never learned to raise paste

No joyata thingof someana naturewaseverequal tomine,whenI
found I had made an earthen pot'that would hear the fire; and I had
hardly patience to stay till they were cold, before I set one on the fire
again, with some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably
well; and with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, though I
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to make it as good
astouldhavehaditmen. '

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat some
corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving at that perfec-
tion of art with one pair of hands To supply this want, I was at a great
loss; for, of all the trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a
stone-cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it
with. I spent manyadaytofindoutagreat stonebig enoughtocut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at all, except what
was in the solid rock, and which I had nowayto dig or cut out; nor
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, but were all of a
sandy crumbling stone, which neither would hear the weight of a heavy
pestle, nor would break the corn without filling it with sand. 80, afier a
great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved
to look out for a great block of hardwood, which I found in(r)ed much
easier, and getting one as big as Ihadstiengthto stir, I roundedit,and
formed it on the oufiide with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help
offire,andinflnitelabour,madeahollowplaceinit,asthe1ndiansin
Brazilmake theiroauoes. AficrthiaImadeagreatheavypestlemrbeater,
of the wood called the iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by against
Ihadmynext cmp of corn, whichIproposed tomyselftogfindor rather
pound, into meal, to make bread. '

My next difiieultywasto make a sievaorsearce, to dress my meal, and
t0 part'it from the bran and the husk; without which I did not see it
possible I could have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, even to

thinkomfortobesureIhadnothingliketheneceesarythingtomakeit--
119
I mean fine thin canvas or stufl' to scarce the meal through And here 1
was at a full stop for many months; nor did I really know what to do.
Linen I had none left but what was mere rage; I had goats'-hair, but
neither knew how to weave it or spin it; and had I known how, here were
no tools to work it with. All the remedy that I found for this was, that at
last I did remember I had. among the seamen's clothes which were saved
out of the ship, some neckeloths of calico or muslin; and with some pieces
of these I made three small sieves proper enough for the work; and thus I
made shift for some years: how I did afterwards, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should
make bread when I came to have com; for, first, I had no yeast As to that
part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it But for an even, I was indeed in great. pain. At length I found
out an experiment for that also, which was this :----I made some earthen
vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about two feet diameter,
and not above nine inches deep. These I burned in the fire, as I had done
the other, and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a great
fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
baking and burning also; but I should not call them square. -

When the firewood was burned pretty much into embers, or live coals,
I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there
I let them lie till the hearth was very hot Then, sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot
upon them, drew the embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and
add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked
my barley-loaves, and became, in little time, a good pastrycook into the
bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice; but I
made no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposing I had,
except the flesh either of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up most part of
the third year of my abode here; for, it is to be observed, that in the
intervals of these things I had my new harvest and husbandry to manage;
for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I could,
and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out,
for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to build
my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it up in, for the increase of the

corn now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about twenty
120_ '3qu

 

0|!le REA" ms tummy.

bushels and of the rice as much, or more; insomuch that now I resolved to
begin to use it freely; for my bread had been quite gone a. great while;
also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a Whole
year, and to sow but once a. year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were
much more than I could consume in a. year; so I resolved to sow just the
same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a
quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.

All the While these things were doing, you may he sure my thoughts
run many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the other
side of the island; and I was not without secret wishes that I were on
shore there, fancying that, seeing the main-land, and an inhabited country,
I might find some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at

last find some means of escape.
121
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such an
undertaking, and how I might fall into the hands of savages, and perhaps
such as I might have reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of
Africa: that if I once came in their power, I should run a hazard of more
than a thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I
had heard that the people of the Caribbean coast were cannibals, or man-
eaters, and I knew by the latitude that I could not be far from that shore.
Then, supposing they were not cannibds, yet they might kill me, as many
Europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served, even when
they had been ten or twenty together--much more I, that was but one, and
could make little or no defence; all these things, I say, which I ought to
have considered well, and did come into my thoughts afterwards, yet gave
me no apprehensions at first, and my head ran mightily upon the thought
of getting over to the shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the shoulder-
of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of
Africa; but this was in vain: then I thought I would go and look at our
ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way,
in the storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost where she did
at first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force of the waves and the
winds, almost bottom upward, against a high ridge of beachy, rough sand,
but no water about her. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to
have launched her into the water, the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough; but I
might have foreseen that I could no more turn her and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the island ; however, I went to the woods,
and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving to try
what I could do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her down, I
might repair the damage she had received, and she would be a very good
boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent, I think,
three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible to heave it up
with my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it, and
so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right
in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get
under it, much less to move it forward. towards the water; so I was forced

to give it over ; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the bout, my
122
desiietoventureoverforthemaininoreased. rather than decreasedasthe
means for it seemed impossible.

This at length put 'me upon thinking whether it was not possible to
make myself a canoe, or penagua, such as the natives of those cliinates make,
evenwithout tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the trunk of a great
tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself
extremely with the thoughts of making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians ; but not at all con-
sidering the particular inconveniences which I lay under more than the
Indians did, viz. want of hands to move it, when it was made, into the
water--a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the conse-
quences of want of tools could be to them; for what was it to me, if when
I had chosen a vast tree' m the woods, and with much trouble cut it down,
if I had been able with my tools to how and dub the outside into the proper
shape of a boat, and burn or out out the inside to make it hollow, so as to
make a boat of it--if, after all this, I must leave it justtherewhere I found
it, and not be able to launch it into the water?

One would have thought I could not have had the least reflection upon
my mind of my circumstances while I was making this boat, but I should
have immediately thought how I should get it into the sea ; but my thoughts
were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, thatIneveroncecon-
sidered how I should get it off the land: and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles in sea, than about /
forty--five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did,
who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the design,
without determining whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but that .
the difficulty of launching. my boat came often into my head; but I put a
stop to my inquiries into it, by this foolish answer, which I gave myself:
"Let me first make it; 'I warrant I will find some way or othertogetit
along when it is done."

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of my fancy
prevailed and 'to work I went. I felled a cedar-tree, and I question much
whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the Temple of
Jerusalem; it was five feetten inches diameter at the lowerpart next the
stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty two feet '
after which it lessened for a while, and then parted into branches It was

not without infinite labour that I felled this tree; I was twenty days
123
hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I was fourteen more getting the
branches and limbs, and the vast spreading head out ofi', which I hacked
and hewed through with axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour: after
this, it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to' a proportion, and to
something like the bottom of a. boat, that it might swim upright as it
ought to do. It cost me near three months more to clear the inside, and
work it out so as to make an exact boat of it; this I did, indeed, without
fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried
six'and twenty men, and consequently big enough to have carried me and
all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with it
The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that
was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you
may be sure; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but
I should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be per-
formed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though they cost
me infinite labour too. It lay about one hundred yards from the water,
and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up hill towards the
creek, Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the
surface of the earth, and so make a declivity: this I began, and it cost
me a prodigious deal of pains (but who grudge pains that have their
deliverance in view 2); but when this was worked through, and this
difiiculty manged, it was still much the same, for I could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat. Then I measured the distance of
ground, and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I
began this work; and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out,
I found that, by the number of hands I had, being none but my own, it
must have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone through with
it; for the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must have been at
least twenty feet deep; so at length, though with great reluctancy, I gave
this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the folly of
beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we judge rightly of

our own strength to go through with it.
124
In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this place,
and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and with as much
comfort as ever before; for, by a constant study and serious application to
the Word of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained a different
knowledge from what I had before. I entertained'difl'erent notions of
things. I looked now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had
nothing to do with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires about:
in a. word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was ever likely to have;
so I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a
place I had lived in, but was come out of it; and well might I say, as
Father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed."

 

CBUSOB 13 DNA" TO H0" 315 BOAT.

In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of the world
here; I had neither the lusts of the, flesh, the lusts of the eye, or the pride
of life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now capable of
enjoying; I Was lord of the whole manor; or, if I pleased, I might call
myself kiiig or emperor over the whole country which I had possession of :
there were no rivals ; I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or
command with me: I might have raised ship-loadings of com, but I had
no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion.

I had tortoise or turtle enough, but now and then one was as much as
125
I could put to any use: I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships;
and I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins,
to have loaded that fleet when it had been built.

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable: I had enough
to eat and supply my wants, and what was all the rest to me? If I killed
more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sowed
more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled; the trees that I out down
were lying to rot on the ground; 'I could make no more use of them but
for fuel, and that I had no occasion for but to dress my food.

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to me, upon
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are no farther good
to us than they are for our use; and that, whatever we may heap up to
give others, we enjoy just as much as we can use, and no more. The most
covetous, griping miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of
covetousness, if he hadrbeen in my case; for I possessed infinitely more
than I knew what to do with I had no room for desire, except it was
of things which I had not, and they were but trifles, though, indeed, of
great use to me. I had, as I hinted. before, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty--six pounds sterling. ' Alas! there the sorry,
useless stuff lay; I had no manner of business for it; and often thought
with myself, that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of
tobacco-pipes; or for a hand~mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have
given it all for a sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England.
or for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had
not the least advantage by it or benefit from it; but there it lay in a
drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons;
and if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the same case,
they had been of no manner of value to me, because of no-use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than
it was at first, and much easier to my mind, as well as to my body. I
frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand of'
God's providence, which had thus spread my table in the wilderness. I
learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition, and less upon the
dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted; and
this gave me sometimes such secret comerts, that I cannot express them;
and which I take notice of here, to put those discontented people in
mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them.

because they see and covet something that he has not given, them. All
15m '
ourdisconteuts aboutwhatwe want appeared to mete spring fromthe
want of thankfulness for what we have '

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless would 'be so
to any one that'should fall into such distressasminewas; andthiswas,
to compare my present condition with what I at first expected it would
be; nay, with what it would certainly-have been, if the good providence
of God had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the
shore, where I not only could come at her, but could bring what I got
out of her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; without which, I had
wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence, and gunpowder and shot .
for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself,
in the most lively colours, how I must have acted if I had got nothing out
of the ship. How I could not have so much as get any food, except fish
and turtles; and that,as itwas long before I found anyof them,I must
haveperished first; that I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a
mere savage; that if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance,
Ihadnowaytoflayoropenitorpartthefleshfrom theskinandthe
bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with
my claws, like a beast

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Providence .
to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with all its hardships
and misfortunes: and this part also I cannot but' recommend to the
reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is any afliiction-
like mine?" Let them consider how much worse the cases of somepeOple
are, mdtheircasemighthavebeemif vaidencehadthoughtfit

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind
with hopes ; and this was comparing my present situation with what I had '
deserved, and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence.
I had livedadreadful life, perfectly destituteoftheknowledgeand fearof
God. I had been well instructed by father and motheryneither had they
been wanting to me, in their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe
of God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and what the nature and end .n
ofmy being required ofme But, alas! falling early into the seafaring
life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the fear of God, though Hi3
terrors are always before them; I say, falling early into the seafaring life, '
and into seafaring company, all that little sense of religion which I had

entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates; by a- hardened
19.7
despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew habitual to me .
by my long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse with
anything but what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good
or tended towards it

So void was I of everything that was good, or the least sense of what
I was, or was to be, that, in the greatest deliverances I enjoyed--such as
my escape from Sallee; my being taken up by the Portuguese master of the
ship ; my being planted so well in the Brazils ; my receiving the cargo from
England, and the like--I never had once the words, " Thank God," so much
as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much
as a thought to pray to him, or so much as to say, " Lord, have mercy upon
me I " no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by, and
blaspheme it. -

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as I have
already observed, on account of my wicked and hardened life past; and
when I looked about me, and considered what particular providences had
attended me since my coming into this place, and how God had dealt boun--
tifully with rue--had not only punished me less than my iniquity had
deserved, but had so plentifufly provided for me--this gave me great hopes
that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet mercy in store
for me. --

With these reflections, I worked my mind up, not only to aresignation-to
the will of God in the present disposition of my circumstances, but even to a
sincere thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was yet a living man,
ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I_enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason to have expected in
that place; that I ought never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice,
' and to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd of
wonders could have brought; that I ought to consider I had been fed even
by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens ; nay, by a
long series of miracles: and that I could hardly have named a place in the
uninhabitable part of the world where I could have been cost more to my
. advantage; a place where, as I had no society, which was my affliction on
one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to
threaten my life; no venomous creatures, or poisons, which I might feed on
to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life
was _a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted

nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my sense of
128cnckoz's BURMATB LAUGH "l3 SIRS}: 0V ILKLIGIOS OUT 0! "In.

(End's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition, be my daily cou-
mleition; and after I did make a just; improvement on these things, I went
:iwny, and was no more sad. I had now been here so long,th:1t many things
"1|th 1 had brought on shore for my help were cit-her quite gone, or very
mneh wasted and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone some time, all but a very little,
hieh I eked out with water, a little and a little, till it was so pale, it scarce
3-1': any appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted I made
We of it to minute down the days of the month on which any remarkable
Hing happened to me; and first, by casting up times past, I remembered
iint there was a strange concurrence of days in the Various 1'n'0vidences
Which hefell me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe
days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
mm a great deal of curiosity.

129 K
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away from my
father and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea,the same day
afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave; the
same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of that ship in Yar-
mouth Roads, that same day year-afterwards I made my escape from Sallee
in a boat; the same day of the year I was born on, viz the 30th of Septem-
oer, that same day I had my life so miraculously saved twenty-six years
after, when I was cast on shore in this island; so that my wicked life and
my solitary life began both on a day.

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my bread, I mean
the biscuit which I brought out of the ship; this I had husbanded to the
last degree, allowing myself but one cakeof bread a day for above a year;
and yet I was quite without bread for near a year before I got any corn of
my own; and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the
getting it being, as has been already observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay; as to linen, I had had none a good

. while, except some chequered shirts which I found in the cheats of the other
seamen, and which I carefully preserved; because many times I could bear
no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me that I
had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of'shirts
There were also, indeed, several thick watch-coats of the seamen's which
were left, but they were too hot to wear; and though it is true that the
weather was so violently hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could
not go quite naked--no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not;
--nor could I abide the thought of it, though I was alone. The reason why
I could not go naked was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
quite naked as with some clothes on ; nay, the very heat frequently blistered
my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or
a hat; the heat of the sun, beating with such violence as itdoes in that
place, would give me the head-ache presently, by darting so directly on my
head, without a. cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put
on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views I began to consider about putting the few rags I had,
which I called clothes, into some order; I had worn out all the waistcoats
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make jackets out of

the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such other materials as
130I
or maniacs mson

Ihad; soI settowork,tailoring,orrather, indmd, batching, for I made
most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or thrte
newwaisteoate, which I hopedwould serveme agreatwhile; as forbreeches
or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.

IhavementibmdthatIsavedthesldnsofalltheoreaturesthatI
killed, I'meau four-footed ones and I had them hung up, stretched out
with sticks in the sun, by which means some ofthem were so dryendhard
that they were fit for little, but others were very useful The first thing
I made of these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside,
to shoot of the rain; and this I performed so well, that after, I made me a
suit of clothes wholly of these skins--that is to say, a. waistcoat, and
breeches open at the knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanting to
keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that
they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse
tailor. However, they were such as I made very goodshifi with, and when
Iwas out, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being
outermost, I was kept very dry. .

Attai- this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make an umbrella;
lwas indeed in greatwant ofoneand hada great mindtomake one: I had
seen them made in the mails, where they are very useful in the great heats
there, and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being
nearer the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a
most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world
of pains with it, and was a. great while before I could make anything likely
' to hold: nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or three
before I made one to my mind: but at last I made one that answered
indifl'erently well; the main difficulty I found was to make it let down.
I could make it spread, but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it was
not portable for me any way but just over my head, which would not do.-
liowevcr, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and covered it with skins,
the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept 03'
the sun so efl'eetually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the Weather
with greater advantage than I could before in the coolest, and when I had
no need of it, could close it, and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed by
resigning myself to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon the
disposal of His providence. This made my life better than sociable, for
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself,

18! -whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts, and (as I hope I
may say) with even God Himself, by ejaculations, was not better than the
utmost enjoyment of human society in the world?

I cannot say that, after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing hap-
pened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same posture and
place, as before; the chief things I was employed in, besides my yearly
labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which
I always kept up just enough to have suflicient stock of one year's provision
beforehand; I say,,besides this yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of going
out with my gun, I had one labour, to make a canoe, which at last I finished:
so that, by digging a canal to it of six feet wide and four feet deep, I brought
it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the first, which was so vastly
big, for I made it without considering beforehand, as I ought to have done,
how I should be able to launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie Where it was as a
memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next time: indeed, the next
time, though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place where I
could not get the water to it at any less distance than, as I have said, near
half a mile, yet, as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over;
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never gruQed my labour,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last. '

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of it was
not at all answerable to the design which I had in view when I made the
first; I mean of venturing over to the 10m fi/mm, where it was above forty
miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end
to that design, and now I thought no more of it As I had a boat, my next
design was to make a cruise round the island; for as I had been on the
other side in one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over the
land, so the discoveries I made in that little journey made me very eager to
see other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion and consi-
deration, I fitted up a little mast in my boat, and made a sail too out of
some of the pieces of the ship's sails which lay in store, and of which I had
a great stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I
found she would sail very well: then I made little lockers, or boxes, at each
end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammunition, &c. into, to be
kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little, long, hollow

182 'or 'aomrson causes.

plane I cut' in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a
flap to hang down over it, to keep it dry.

Ifixedmyumbrellaalso ina step atthestermfikeamasttostand'
over my head; and keep the heat of the sun of me, like an awning; and
thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea: but never
went far out, nor far from the little creek. At last, being eager to view
the circumference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my cruise; and
accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot full
of parchedrice (a foodIatea greatdeal of), a little bottleofrum,ha'lf a
goat, and powder and shot for ln'lling more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests;
those I took, one to lie upon, and the other to covar me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my mign, or my cap-
tivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much
longer than I expected; for though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the ,east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out
about two leagues into the see, some above water, some under it; and
beyond that a. shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was
obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I'was going to give over my enterprise,
and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to'go out to
sea: and, above all, doubting how I should get back again: so I came to
an anchor; for I had made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken
grappling which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climbing
up a hill, which seemed to overlook that point where I saw the full extent
of it, and resolved to venture.

Inmyviewing the seafromthathillwheiel stood,I perceived astrong
and, indeed, a most furious current, which ran to the east, and even came
close to the point; and I took the more notice of it, because I sew-there
might be some danger, that when I came into it, I might be carried out to
sea by the strength of it,- and not be abletomaketheisland again: and,-
indeed,hadInotgotfirst uponthishill, Ibelieveitwould havebeen' so;
for there was the same current on the other side the island, only that it set?
ofl' ata'farther distance, andI sawtherewas a strong edd'ynnderuthe
shore; so I had nothing to do but to get outofthefirstl'ementwand 1-"

should presently be in an eddy. .
13'ms m.inmr0ms

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty fresh at
ESE, and that being just contrary to the current, made a great breach of
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to
the shore far the breach, nor to go too far off, because of the stream.

The third day, in'the morning, the wind having abated overn'ght, the
seawascalm,andIventured: butIamawarningtoallrash andignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I was not even my
boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a. great depth of water,
and a current like the sluice of a mill: it carried my boat along with it
with such violence that all I could do could not keep her so much as on
the edge of it; but I found it hurried me farther and farther out from the
eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me,
and all I could do with my paddles signified nothing : and now I began to
give myself over for lost; for as the current was on both sides of the island,
I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and then I was
irrecoverably gone ; nor did I see any possibility of avoiding it ; so that I
had no prospect before me but of perishing, not by the sea, for that was
calm enough, but of starving from hunger. I had, indeed, found a tortoise
on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat;
and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen
pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to
, be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island, for a thousand leagues
at least 3

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to make
even the most miserable condition of mankind worse. Now I looked back
upon my desolate, solitary island, as the most pleasant place in the world,
and all the happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there again.
I stretched out my hands to it, with eager wishes: "0 happy desert!" said
I, "I shall never see thee more. 0 miserable creature! whither am I
going i " Then I reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and that
I had rcpined at my solitary condition; and now what would I give to be
on shore there again! Thus, we never see the true state of our condition
till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor know how to value what we
enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarcely possible to imagine the con-
sternation I was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it
appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, almofi two leagues, and in
the utmost despair of ever recovering it again However, I worked hard

till indeed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much
18'
w the northward, that is, towards the side of the current which the eddy
lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon. as the sun passedthe
meridian, I thought I felt a little breeas of wind in my taco, springing up
from 8.813. This cheered my heart a. little, and especially when, in about
half anhourmore, itblewaprettygentlegale. Bythisfime,1hadgotat '
a frightful distance hum the island,,and had the lam cloudy or hazy weather '
intervened, I had been undone mother way, too; for I had no compass on
board, and should never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but once lost sight of it ; but the weather continuing clear,
Iappliedmyseli' to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the current. .

JustasIhadsetrnymastandsail,andtheboatbegantostretchaway,

I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of the current
was near"; for where the current was so strong the water was foul; but
perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate; and presently I
found to the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some
rocks: these rocks I found caused the current to part again, and as the
main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the
north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks, and made
a strong eddy, which ran back again to the northwest, withavery sharp
stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the
ladder, orto herescued from thievesjust going to murder them,orwho
have been in such extremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy
was, andhow gladlyIputmybodintothestream of this eddy; andthe
wind also freshening, how gladly I spmad my sail to it, running cheerfully
beforetbewind, andwithastrongtideoreddyunderfoot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward than the
currentwhichcauiedmeawayatfirst;sothatwhen1camenearths
is]and,Ifoundmyself opentothenorthern shore of it, that is to say, the
otherendof the island. oppositetothatwhichIwentontfrom.

WhenIhadmade somethingmo'rethanaleagueof waybythe'help
ofthiscurrent or eddy,I founditwuspentandservedmenofarthen
Howsver,I found that being between two great currentsniathatonthe
south side, which had hurried me away,andthatontbenortb.whiohlay
about aleague on the otherside;'I say,betweenthesetwo, in thewalre

ofthe island, I found the wateratleaststill, andrunningno wan-and
.135 . '
having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the
island, though not making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster,
stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and casting 09' the
current more southerly, had, of course, made another eddy to the north;
and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course
lay, which was due west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west; and in about an
hour came within about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water,
I soon get to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my
deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my
boat; and refreshing myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat
close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied under some trees, and
laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of
the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat! I had
run so much hazard, and knew too much of the case, to think of attempting
it by the way I went out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the
west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures : so I
resolved on the next morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety,
so as to have her main, if I wanted her. In about three miles, or there-
abouts, coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay, about a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a. very little riv-ulct or brook, where I
found a very convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she
had been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and
having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore to look about me, and
see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had been
before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so taking nothm out of
my boat but my gun and umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had
been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
every thing standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good order, being,
as I said before, my country-house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs.
13603ml "TOME THANKS NR HIS DELIVERAXCL

for I was very weary; and fell asleep ; but judge you, if you can, that read
my. story, what: a. surprise I must be in when I was awaked out of my sleep
by a. voice, calling me by my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin
Crusae: poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are
you? Where have you been 2 "

I was so dead asleep at flush, being fatigued with rowing, or paddling as
' 1'37
it is called, the first part of the day, and with walking the latter part, that
I did not wake thoroughly ; but dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as the voice continued
to repeat, " Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe." at last I began to wake more
perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the
utmost consternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my
Poll sitting on the top of the hedge ; and immediately knew that it was he
that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to
him, and teach him ; and he had learned it so perfectly that he would sit
upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my toes, and cry, "Poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you been? How came you here 2 "
and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it
could he nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose myself.
First, I was amazed how the creature got thither; and then, how he should
just keep about the place, and nowhere else; but as I was well satisfied it
could be nobody but honest Poll. I got over it; and holding out my hand,
and calling him by his name, " Poll," the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued talking to me, " Poor
Robin Crusoe! and how did I come here? and where had I been i" just
as if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him home
along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough
to do for many days, to sit still, and reflect upon the danger I had been in.
I would have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the
island; but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As to the
east side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there
was no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and my very
blood run chill, but to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, I
did not know how it might be there; but supposing the current ran with
the same force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, I
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by
the island, as I had been before of being carried away from it: so with
these thoughts, I contented myself to be without any boat, though it had
been the product of so many months' labour to make it, and of so many
more to get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper, I remained near a year; and lived a
very sedate, retired life. as you may well suppose; and my thoughts being

188CILUGOB 18 DELIGHT" WITH HIS CLAY PIPE

very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really very
happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which my
necessities put me upon applying myself to ; and I believe I should, upon
occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially considering how few
tools I had ,

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware,
and contrived W611 enough to make them with a Wheel, which I found
infinitely easier and better; because I made things round and shaped, which
before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think I was never more
vain of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found out, than
PS0" my being able to make a. tobacco-pipe; and though it was a very ugly,
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burned red, like other earthenware,

yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
139
comforted with it, for I had been always used to smoke; and there were
pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not thinking that there was
tobacco in the island; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, I
could not come at any pipes. .

In my wickerware, also, I improved much, and made abundance of
necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though not very
handsome, yet they were such as were very handy and convenient for laying
things up in, or fetching things home. For example, if I killed a goat
abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and out it inpieces, and
bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle: I could cut it up, take
out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and
bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also, large
deep baskets were the receivers of my corn, which I always mbbed out as
soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; this was a
want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I began seriously to
consider what I must do when I should have no more powder; that is to
say, how I should kill any goats. I had, as is observed, in the third year of
my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes
of getting a he-goat: but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till my
kid grew an old goat; and as I could never find in my heart to kill her, she
died at last of mere age.

But being new in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have said,
my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap and
snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them alive; and
particularly, I wanted a she-goat great with young. For this purpose
I made snares to hamper them; and I do believe they were more than
once taken in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and
I always found them broken, and my bait devoured. At length, I
resolved to try a pitfall : so I dug several large pits in the earth, in places
where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed:
hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight upon them; and
several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap;
and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn,
for I could see the marks of their feet. At length, I set three traps in one
night, and going the next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the
bait eaten and gone: this was very discouraging. However, I altered
my traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one morning to

140
see my traps, I found in one of them a large old he-goat; and in one of the
others, three kids, a male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce, I
durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to bring him away alive,
which was what I wanted I could have killed him, .but that was not my
business, nor would it answer my end; so I even let him out, and he ran
away as if he had been frightened out of his wits. But I did not then
know what I afterwards learned, that hunger will tame a. lion. If I had let
him stay there three or four days without food, and then have carried him
some'>>water to drink, and then a little corn, he would have been as tame as
one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where
they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time:
then I went to the three kids, and, taking them one by one, I tied them with
strings together, and with some difliculty brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some
sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And now I found
that if I expected to supply myself with goats' flesh, when I had no powder
or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when, perhaps, I
might have them about my house like a flock of sheep. But, then, it
occurred to me that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else they would
always run wild when they grew up; and the only way for this was to have
some inclosed piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to
keep them in so efl'ectually, that those within might not break out, or those
without break in. .

Thiswas agreatundertakingforonepairof hands; yet, asIsaw there
was an. absolute necessity for doing it, my first work was to. find out a
proper piece of ground, where there was likely to be herbage for them to
eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such inclosurcs will think I had very little con-
trivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper for all these (being a
plain open piece of meadow land, or savannah, as our people call it in the
western colonies), which had two or three little drills of fresh water in it,
and at one end was very woody,--I say, they will smile at myvforecast,
when I shall tell them I began by inclosing this piece of ground "in such a.
manner, 'that my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about.
Nor was the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles '

about, I was like to have time enough to do it in; but I did not consider
141

\
that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the
whole island, and I should have so much room to chase them in that I
should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty yards when
this thought occurred to me; so I presently stopped short, and, for the
beginning, I resolved to inclose a piece of about one hundred and fifty
yards in length, and one hundred yards in breadth, which, as it would
maintain as many as I should have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock
increased, I could add more ground to my inelosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with courage.
I was about three months hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it,
I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed as
near me as possible, to make them familiar; and very often I would go and
carry them some ears of barley, or a. handful of rice, and feed them out of
my hand; so that, after my inclosure was finished, and I let them loose,
they would follow me up and down, bleating after me for a handful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a flock of
about twelve goats. kids and all; and in two years more I had three-and-
forty, besides several that I took and killed for my food. After that, I
inelesed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to
drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece of
ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed on
when I pleased, but milk too,--a thing which, indeed, in the beginning, I
(lid not so much us think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise. for now I set up my dairy, and had
sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use
of it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter
or cheese made only when I was a boy, after a great many essays and
miscarriages, made both butter and cheese at last, also salt (though I
found it partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun upon some of
the rocks of the sea), and never wanted it afterwards. How mercifufly can
our Creator treat .llis creatures, even in those conditions in which they
seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the
bitterest providences. and give us cause to praise Him for'dungeons and
prisons! What a table was here spread for me in the wilderness, where

I saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger.
142CRUSOE DIXIE WITH ["8 FAMILY.

It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me and my little family
sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince 'and lord of the
whole island; I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command;
_I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all
my subjects. Then, to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone, attended
by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown old and crazy,
and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right
hand; and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a. mark of especial favour.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first, for
they were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation by
my own hand; but one of them having multiplied by I know not what
kind of creature, these were two which I had preserved tame; whereas the
test run Wild in the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last,
for they would often come into my house, and plunder me, too, till at last I
was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length they left

me. With this attendance and in this plentiful manner I lived; neither
143
could I be said to want anything but society; and of that, some time after
this, I was likely to have much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my
boat, though very loath to run any more hazards; and therefore sometimes
I sat contriving ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat
myself down contented enough without her. But I had a strange uneasiness
in my mind to go down to the point of the island, where, as I have said in
my last ramble, I went up the hill 'to see how the shore lay, and how the
current set, that I might see what I had to do: this inclination increased
upon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel thither by land,
following the edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in England
met such a man as I was, it must either have frightened him, or raised a
great deal of laughter; and as I frequently stood still to look at myself, I
could not but smile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire with
such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my
figure, as follows :--

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap
hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain
oil' from running into my neck, nothing being so hurtful in these climates
as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about the
middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same; the
breeches were made of the skin of an old he--goat, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle
of my legs; stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of
somethings, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my
legs, and lace on either side like spatter-dashes, but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together with
two thongs of the same instead of buckles, and in a kind of a frog on
either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a
hatchet, one on one side, and one on the other. I had another belt not so
broad, and fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder, and
at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's
skin too, in one of which hung my powder, in the other my shot At my
back I carried my basket, and on my shoulder, my gun, and over my head
a great clumsy, ugly, goat's-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most

necessary thing I had about me next to my gun As for my face, the colour
144CREME EQUIPS mum: FOR HIS JOURNEY.

pfdt was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at
all garefifl of it, and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox.- My
heard I had once suffered 1'4) grow till it was about a quarter of a yamd long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short,

"099% What grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into 9. large paix
145' L
of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee,
for the Moors did not wearsuch, though the Turks did; of these moustachios,
or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon
them, but they were of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as
in England would have passed for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few to observe
me, that it was of no manner of consequence, so I say no more of that In
this kind of dress I went my new journey, and was out five or six days. I
travelled first along the sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor to get upon the rocks; and having no hint now to
take care of, I went over the land a nearer way to the same height that I
was upon before, when, looking forward to the points of the rocks which lay
out, and which I was obliged to double with my boat, as is said above, I
was surprised to sec the see all smooth and quiet--no rippling, no motion,
no current, any more there than in any other places. I was at a strange loss
to understand this, and resolved to spend some time in the observing it,
to see, if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was
presently convinced how it was, viz. that the tide of ebb setting {tom the
west, and joining with the current of waters from some great river on the
shore, must be the occasion of this current, and that, according as the wind
blew more forcibly from the west or from the north, this current came nearer,
or went farther from the shore ; for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went
up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw
the current again as before, only that it ran farther ofi; being near half a
league from the shore, whereas in my case it set close upon the shore, and
hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at another time it would not
have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to observe
the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my
boat about the island again; but when I began to think of putting it in
practice, I had such terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the
danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience,
but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe,
though more laborious--and this was. that I would build, or rather make.
me another periagua or canoe, and so have one for one side of the island, and
one for the other. '

..;.. You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two plantations

' in the island,'---one my'little fortification or tent, with the wall about it.
146

I
under the rock, with the cave behind me, which by this time Ihad enlarged
into several apartments, or caves, one within another. One of these, which
was the driest and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or fortification,
---that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up
with the large earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with
fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provisions, especially my corn, some in the ear,
out ofi' short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.

As for my well, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those piles
grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and speed so very
much, that there was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them. ,

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and upon
lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn land, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest'in its season; and
whenever I had occasion for more com, I had more land adjoining as fit
as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a tolerable planta-
tion there also; for, first, I had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept
in repair--that is to say, I kept the hedge, which encircled it in, constantly
fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside. I
kept the trees, which at first were no more than stakes, but were now grown
very firm and tall, always cut, so that they might spread and grow thick
and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to
my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and which never
Wanted any repair or renewing; and under this I had made me a squab
or coach, with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other sofi
things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-bedding,
which I had saved; and a great watch-coat to cover me. And here, when-
ever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my country
habitation. A -

Adjoining to this, I had my incloeures for my cattle, that is to say, my '
goats, and I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and inclose
this ground. I was so anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats should
bleak through, that I never Iefi ofi' till, with infinite labour, I had stack the
outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that '

itwesratherapale thanehedge, andtherewas scarce roomtopute hand
141 .
through between them; which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they
all did in the next rainy season, made the inclosure strong like a wall,'
indeed stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no pains
to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support,
for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long
as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that keeping them
in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my inclosures to such
a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them together; which, by this
method, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little stakes began
to grow, I had planted them so very thick, that I was forced to pull some of
them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally depend-
ed on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve
very carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and
indeed they were not only agreeable, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing,
and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the
place where I had laid up my boat, I generally staid and lay here in my
way thither, for I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all things
about, or belonging to her, in very good order. Sometimes I went out in
her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely
ever above a. stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of
being hurried out of my knowleQe again by the currents or winds, or any
other accident. But now I come to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceed-
ingly surprised with the print of a. man's naked foot on the shore, which
was very plain to be seen on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked round me, but I
could hear nothing, nor see anything; I Went up to a. rising ground, to look
farther; I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one: I
could see no other impression but that one. I went to it again to see if
there were any more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but there
was no room for that, for there was exactly the print of a foot--toes, heel.
and every part of a foot. How it came thither I knew not, nor could I in
the least imagine; but after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man

perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortification, not
148
feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree,
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and
tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible
to describe how many various shapes my afl'righted imagination represented
things to me in, how many wild ideas were found every moment in my-
fancy, and what strange, unaccountable whimseys came into my thoughts
by the way.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after this), I
fled into it like one pursued. Whether I went over by the ladder, as first

 

cams nm to 1115 NBTU'IOA'HOX

contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which Iliad called'a door, I
cannot remember; no, nor _could I remember the next morning, for never
frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than
I to this retreat. ' '

I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occasion of my
fright, the greater my apprehensions were, which is something contrary;
to the nature of such things, and especially to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of
the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
thmlgh I was now a great way off. Sometimes I fancied it must be the

devil, and reason joined in with me in this supposition, for how should any
149
other thing in human shape come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? What marks were there of any other footstep? And
how was it possible a man should come there? But then. to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place, where there
could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot
behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I
should see it,-----this was an amusement the other way. I considered that
the devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified
me than this of the single print of a foot; that as I lived quite on the other
side of the island, he'would never have been so simple as to leave a mark
in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it
or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high
wind, would have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the
thing itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of the subtilty
of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all
apprehensions of its being the devil; and I presently concluded then, that
it must be some more dangerous creature, viz. that it must be some of the
savages of the main land opposite, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, and either driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had made
the island, and had been-on shore, but were gone away again to sea; being
as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I would have
been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling in my mind, I was very thankful
in my thoughts, that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time,
or that they did not see my boat, by which they would have concluded that
some inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther
for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their having
found out my boat, and that there were people here; and that, if so, I
should certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and devour me;
that if it should happen that they should not find me, yet they would find
my inclosure, destroy all my corn, andcarry away all my flock of tame
goats, and I should perish at last for more want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former confidence
in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience a I had had
of His goodness; as if He that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not
preserve, by His power, the provision which He had made for me by His

goodness. I reprooehed myself with my laziness, that would not sow any
150
more com one year than would just serve me till the next season, as if no
accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was' upon
the ground; and this I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the
future to have two or three years' corn beforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of man! and by
what secret different springs are the afl'ections hurried about, as different
circumstances present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-day
we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what 'w-momw we '
fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions oPS This was exemplified in -
me, at this time, in the most lively manner imaginable, for I, whom only
afiiiction was that I seemed banished from human society, that I was alone,
circumscribed by the boundless ocean, out 011' from mankind, and con-
demned to what I call silent life; that I was as one whom Heaven thought
not worthy to be numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest '
oinscreatures;thattohaveseenoneofmyownspecieswouldhave'
seemedtomearaisingmefromdeathto life, andthegmatestbleming that
Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow. I
say, that I should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man,
andwasreedytosinkintotheground at but the shadowor silent appear-_'
ance of a man having set his foot in the island

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded me a great
many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered my
firstsurprise. Iconsidered that thiswas the station oflife the infinitely
wise and good providence of God had determined for me; that s's I could
not foresee what the ends of Divine wisdom might be in all this, so I
was notto dispute Hisawereignty;who,as1wasHiscieature,hadan
undoubted right, bycrcafion, to govern and dispose of me absolutely as He
thought fit; andvho, as Iwas a creature that'had ofi'endedfiim, had
likewise a judicial right to condemn meto what punishment He thought fit,
and thatitwas mypart to submit to bear His indignafiombecauselhad
sinnedagainstHim. IthenmflectedthatasGodwhowasnotonly
righteous,but omnipotenthadthoughtfitthus to punish and alliict ma,
soHewasabletodeliverme: thatifHe didnotthinkfittodo-sogit
was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to
Hiswill; and, ontheotherhand, itwas mydutyalsotohopeinHim,
Pmyto Himmd quietlyto attend to thedictates and directionsoins

daily providence
151m AND amass

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say weeks
and months: and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occasion
I cannot omit. One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with
thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages, I found it
discomposed me very much; upon which these words of the Scripture
came into my thoughts: "Call upon Me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of
my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged
to pray earnestly to God for deliverance : when I had done praying, I took
up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first words that presented to me
were, "Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen
thy heart; wait, I say, on the L0 " It is impossible to express the
comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down the book, and
was no more sad, at least on that occasion- ' '

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections, it
came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere chimera of
my .own, and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came '
on shore from my boat: this cheered me up a. little, too, and I began to
persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my own
foot; and why might I not come that way from the' boat, as well as I was
going that way to the boat? Again I considered also, that I could by no
means tell, for certain, 'where I had trod, and where I had not; and that if,
at last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part of
those fools who try to make stories of spectres' and apparitions, and then
are frightened at them more than anybody. -

NowI begantotake courage, and to peep-abroad again, for I hadnot
stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I began to starve
for provisions; for I had little or nothing within doors but some barley-
cakes and water; then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too,
which usually was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it almost spoiled
some of them, and almost dried up their milk. Encouraging. myself.
therefore, with the belief that this was nothing'but .the' print'of one of my
own feet, and that I might be truly said-.to-start at my own shadow,I
began to go abroad again, and went to my country. house to milkmy flock:
but to see with whatfear .I went forward, how often I looked behind me.
how I was ready, every now and then, to lay.down my basket, and run for

my life, it would have made any one have thought I was haunted with an
152w M'Wwwmhm'pi "7N'7v: w

 

'0' seem causes.

eviloonseienoe, orthat I had beenlatelymost terriblyfiightened; andso.
indeed, I had. However, I went down thus two or three days, and having
seen nothingI began to be a little bolder, and to think tharewas really
nothing in it but my own imagination; but I could not persuade myself
fullyofthistillIshouldgodowntotheshore again,and see thisprint of
a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when I came to
the place--first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my boat,
I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabonts: secondly, when
I came to measure the mark with myown foot,I found my foot not so
large by a great'deal. Both these things filled my head with new imagina-
tions, and gave me' the vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook
with cold like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the'
belief that some men or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that-
the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised. before I was aware ,
and what course to take for my security I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear! It
deprives them of the use of those means which reason ofi'ers for their relief.
The first thing I proposed to myself was; to throw down my inolosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, lest the enemy should find
them, and then frequent the island in prospect of the some or the like
booty: then the simple thing of digging up my two corn-fields, lest they
should find such a grain there, and still be prompted- to frequent the island.-
then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges
of habitation, and 'be pronipted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's cogitatioris am I was come
home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrhn my mind were
freshuponmemnd-myheadwas full ofvapours.- Thuafear of danger is
ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent to the'
eyes; andwe find the burdenofauxiety greater,byinuch,thantheevil
whichweareanxious about: andwhatwasworse than all this,I- had not
thatmliefin' this trouble meta thereaignation I usedtoipraotisefl
hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only
thatthePhilistineswerenponhim, but thatGod had forsaken him, for I'
did notnowtakedue ways to compose mymindby crying to God' in my
distress,andresting upon His piovidence, as I had done beforafiir my
defence and deliverance, which,ifI- h'addonalhadat leastbeenmoro

in
cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through
it with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but in the
morning I fell asleep; and having. by the amusement of my mind, been, as
it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and waked
much better composed than I had ever been before. And now I began to
think sedately; and, upon debate with myself, I concluded that this island
(which was so-exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the main
landthan as I had seen) was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine;
that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet
that there might sometimes come boats off from the shore, who, either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds, might
come to this place; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not
met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and that,'if at any
time they should be driven here, it was probable they went away again as
soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix here upon
any occasion; that the most I could suggest anydanger from was, from any
casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here against their wills, so they
made no stay here, but went off again with all possible speed; seldom
staying one night on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides
and daylight back again; and that, therefore, I had nothing to do but to
consider of some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages land upon
the spot.

NowaegansorelytorepentthatIhaddug mycavesolargeasto
bring a. door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where
my fortification joined to the rock: upon maturely considering this, there-
fore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the manner of a
semicircle, at a distance fiom my wall, just where I had planted a double
row of trees about twelve years before, of which I made mention: these
trees having been planted so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be
driven between them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and my
wall would be soon finished So that I had now a double wall; and my
outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything
I could think of, to make it strong; having in it seven little holes; about as
bigasImightputmyarmoutat. In the inside of this, I thickened my
wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bringing earth out of my

cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and
1M0' 30313803 GEORGE

through the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took
notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship; these I planted like
mycannon, and fitted them intoframeathat held themlikeacarriage,>>
that I could fire all theseven guns intwOminntcs'time; thiswallIwas
many a. weary month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till
it was done.

Whenthiswas done, IstnckallthegmundwithoutmywalLfora
greatlengtheveryway, asfull withstakesorsficksof theosiebhkewood,
which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch, that I
believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large
space between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy,
and they might have no shelter from the young trees, if they attempwd to
approach my outer wall.

Thus,in twoyears'time,I had athickgrove; and infiveor sixyears'
time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so_monstrously thick and
strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable: and no men, of what kind '
soever, could ever imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a
habitation. As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in and out
(for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a part of the
rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room to place another
ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were taken down, no man living
could come down to me without doing himself mischief; and if they had
come down, they were still on the outside of my outer well.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own
preservation>>; and it will be seen, at length, that they were not altogether
without just reason; though I foresaw nothing at thattime more than my
more fear suggested to me.

Whilethiswas doing, I was not altogether careless of my otherafi'airs;
forI hada great concern upon me for mylittle herd of goats: theywere
not only a. ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to be suflicient
for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but also without the
fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advan-
tageof them, andtohavethemalltonurseup overagain.

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but two ways
topresewethem: onewas,to find another convenient place todigacave
underground, andto drive them into iteverynight; andthe otherwasto
enclose two orthree little bits of land, remote from one another," as

much conceded as Imuldwhere Imight keepabonthalfadozenyouug
1!"
goats in each place; so that if any disaster happened to the flock in general,
I might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time : and this,
though it would require a good deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts of the
island; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed, as my heart
could wish: it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of the
hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once
before, endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the
island. Here I found a clear piece of,.land, near three acres, so surrounded
with woods, that it was almost an inclosure by nature; at least, it did not
want near so much labour to make it so, as the other piece of ground I had
worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground; and, in less
than a month's time, I had so fenced it round that my flock, or herd, call it
which you please, which were not so wild now as at first they might be
supposed to he, were well enough secured in it: so, without any further
delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-goats, to this piece; and,
when they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had made it as
secure as the other; which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took me
up more time by a great deal. All this labour I was at the expense of,'
purely from my apprehensions on account of the print of a man's foot ,
for, as yet, I had never seen any human creature come near the island; and
I had now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may be well imagined
by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear
of man. And this I must observe, with grief, too, that the discomposure
of my mind had great impression also upon the religious part of my
thoughts; for the dread and terrer of falling into the hands of savages and
cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due
temper for application to my Maker; at least. not with the sedate calmness
and resignation of soul which I was wont to do : I rather prayed to God as
under great affliction'and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in
expectation every night of being murdered and devoured before morning;
and I must testify, from my experience, that a temper of peace, thank-
fulness, love, and afiection, is much the more proper frame for prayer than
that of terror and discomposnre; and that under the dread of mischief

impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of the' duty
1"
ofprayingto God,thanhe isfor a repentance on asickbed; fortheae dis-,
composures affect the mind, as.the others do the body; and the discom-
posure of the mindmustneceuarilybe as grew a disability asthatof the
body, and much greater; praying to God being properly an act of the
mind, not of the body. ' -

But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of my little living
stock, I went about the whole island, searching for another private place to
make such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of the
island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a
boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or
two in one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had
it not about me; and this was so remote that I could not tell what to make
of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any
longer: whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but as I descended
fromthehillI couldseeno more ofit, soIgaveitover;on1yIresolvedto -
go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket When I.was
come down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed, I had never
been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot was not such astrange thing in the island as I imagined; and but that
it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side of the island
where the savages never came, I should easily have known that nothing
was more frequent than for the canoes from the main, when they happened
to be a little too far out at sea. to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour: likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors,
having taken any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where,
according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill
and eat them; of which hereafter. -

Wheanascomedownthehilltotheshore,as Isaidabovabeingthe
S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it
possible for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore .
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and
particularly, I observed aplaoe wheretherehad beenafiremade, and a
circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage-
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their
fellow-creatures. . ,

Iwas soastonishedwiththe sightof thesethingathatlentertainedno
notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while: all my appre-
hensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitchof inhuman,hellish
brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though
I had heard of it often, yet I never had so near a view of before ; in short,
I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick,
and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature discharged the disorder
from my stomach; and having vomited with uncommon violence, I was a
little relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got
up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards my
own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still awhile, _
as amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked up with the utmost
affection of my soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks,
that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where I was distinguished
from such dreadful creatures as these; and that, though I had esteemed my
present condition very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in it
that I had still more to give thanks for than to complain of: and this,
above all, that I had, even in this miserable condition, been comforted with
the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing: which was a
felicity more than suficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered, or could suffer.

In this frame of thanld'ulness, I went home to my castle, and began to
be much easier now, as to the safety of my circumstances, than ever I was
before: for I observed that these matches never came to this island in
search of what they could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not
expecting, anything here; and having often, no doubt, been up the covered,
woody part of it, without finding anything to their purpose. I knew I had
been here now almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of
human creature there before; and I might be eighteen years more as
entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself'to them, which
I had no manner of occasion to' do; it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort of
creatures than cannibals to make myself known to. Yet I entertained such
an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and of
the wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle,
for almost two years after this: when I say my own circle, I mean by it my
three plantations, via my castle, my country-seat (which I called my
bower), and my inclosure in the woods: nor did I look after this for any

other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion which nature
158oraonnrsosoausol.

gavemetothesshellishwretcheswassuoh,that I was asfearfolof seeing
themasof seeingthedevilhimself. Idid not so muchasgotolookafter
my boat all this time, but began rather to think of making another; for I
could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other best
round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures at
sea; in which case if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I
knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of
being discovered by these people, began to wear ofl' my uneasiness about
them; and I began to live just in the same composed manner as before,
only with this difference, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more
about me than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any-of
them, being on the island, should happen to hear it. It was, therefore, a
very good providence to me that I had furnished myself with a tame bmed
of goats, and that I had no need to hunt any more about the woods, or
shoot at them; andif I did catch anyof them afler this, itwss bytraps
and snares, as I had done before; so that for two years after this, I believe
I never fired my gun once off, though I never went out without it; and
what was more, as I had saved threepistols out of the ship, I always carried
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin
belt. I also furbished up one of the great outlasses that I had out of the
ship,andmademeabeltto hang it onalso; sothat Iwasnow amost
formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great broad-
sword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a scabbard.

" Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, excepting
these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm, sedate way of living. All
these things tended to show me, more and more, how far my condition
was from being miserable, compared to some others; nay, to,many other
particulars of life, which it might have pleased God to have made my lot.
It put me upon reflecting how little repining there would be among
mankind at ,any condition of life, if people would rather compare their
condition with those that were worse, in order to be thankful, than be
always comparing them with those which are better, to assist their mur-
murings and complainings.

As in my present oonditionthere were not refly manythings which

I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the frights I had been' in about these
159
savage wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences; and 1
had dropped a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon,
and that was to try if I could not make some of my barley into malt, and
then try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical thought,
and I rcproved myself often for the simplicity of it: for I presently saw
there would be the want of several things necessary to the making my beer,
that it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to preserve
it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I could never
compass: no, though I spent not only many days, but weeks, my months,
in attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it
boil; and yet with all these things wanting, I verily believe, had not the
frights and terrors I was in about the savages intervened, I had undertaken:
it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave anything over
without accomplishing it, when once I had it in my head to begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for, night and day, I could
think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these monsters in their
cruel, bloody entertainment; and, if possible, save the victim they should
bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger volume than this whole
work is intended to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or
rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures,
or at least frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more:
but all this was abortive; nothing could be possible to take effect, unless
I was to be there to do it myself: and what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together
with their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot
as true to a mark as I could with my gun?

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where they
made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder, which,
when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all
that was near it: but as, in the first place, I should be unwilling to waste
so much powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity of one
barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going ofi' at any certain time, when
it might surprise them; and, at best, that it would do little more than just
blow the fire about their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make
them forsake the place: so I laid it aside; and then proposed that I would

place myself in ambush in some convenient place, with my three guns all
160CIKUSOE FLUTE! TI": DIR'THUL'I'ION OP TIIN (YANNHIAIA

<<lnulvh' loaded, and in the middle of their bloody ceremony let lly at them,
\'-ll('ll l should he sure in kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot;
:md lhcn l':illin;_r in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made
Iiu doubt. hut llmt, if there. were twenty, I should kill them all. This fancy
pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of it, that I often
drummed of it, and sometimes, that I was just going to let fly at them in
in)" sleep. I went. so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
Suvcral days to find out proper places to put myself in umbuscade, as I

"id, to watch for them, and I went frequently to the place itself, which
161 M
was now grown more familiar to me; but while my mind was thus filled
A with thoughts of revenge and a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to
the sword, as I may call it, the horror I had at the place, and at the signals
of the barbarous wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice. Well,
at length I found a place in the side of the hill, whereI was satisfied I might
securely wait till I saw any of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen into
some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to
conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe all their bloody
doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when they were so close
together as that it would be next to impossible that I should miss my shot,
or that I could fail wounding three or four of them at the first shot. In
this place,'then, I resolved to fulfil my design; and accordingly, I prepared
two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and four or five mailer bullets, about the size
of pistol bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful of
swan-shot of the largest size; I also loaded my pistols with about four
bullets each; and, in this posture, well provided with ammunition for a
second and third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my desigu,-and in my imagination
put itin practice, I continually made my tour every morning to the top of
the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about three miles, or
more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the
island, or standing over towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty,
after I had for two or three monthsconstantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery; .there having not, in all that time,
been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but on the whole
ocean, so far as my eyes or glass could reach every way.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also I
kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the while
in a suitable frame for so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or
thirty naked savages, for an offence which I had not at all entered into any
discussion of in my thoughts, any farther than my passions were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of
that country; who, it seems, had been sufi'ered by Providence, in His wise
disposition of the world, to have no other guide than that of their own
abominable and vitiated passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps

had been so for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
162
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven,
and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into,
But now, when, as I have said, I began to be weary of the-imitless
excursion which I had made so long and so far every morning in vain,
so my opinion of the action itself began'to alter; and I began, with cooler
and calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in; what
authority or call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many ages, to
sufl'er, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the executioner-s of His
judgments one upon another; how far these people were offenders against
me,andwhatrightIhadtoengageinthequarrelofthathloodwhichthey
shed promiscuously upon one another. I debated this very ofien with
myself thus: " How do I know what God himself judges in this particular
case? Itis certain thesepeople do-not commit this as a crime; itisnot
against their own consciences reproving, or their light repmaching. them;
they do not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of
divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think it
nomore acrime to kill a captive takeninwanthanwedo tokill anox;
ortoeathumanflesh, thanwe dotoeatmuttcn."

When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I was
certainly in the wrong; that these people were not murderers, in the
sense that I had before condemned them in my thoughts, any more than
those Christians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners taken
in battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of
men to the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down their
arms, and submitted. In the next place, it occurred to me, that although
the usage they gave one another was thus brntish and inhuman, yet it was
reallynothing to me: these people had done me no injury: that ifthey
attempted, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to fall
upon them, something might be said for it: but that I was yet out of their
power, and they really had no knowledge of me, and consequently no
design upon me; and, therefore it could not be just for me to fell upon
them; that this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their
barbarities practised' in America, where they destroyed millions of these
people; who, however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several
bloody and barbmus rites in their customs, such as sacrificing human.
bodies to their idols were _yet, as to the Spaniardaveryinnooent people;

andthattherootingthem outofthecountryisspokenofwiththeutlnost -
168
abhorrence and detestation by even the Spaniards themselves, at this time.
and by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere hatchery, a bloody
and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man; and for
which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible
to all people of humanity or of Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of
Spain were particularly eminent for the produce of a race of men, who were
without principles of tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind of a full
stop; and I began, by little and little. to be ofi' my design, and to conclude
I had taken wrong measures in my resolution to attack the savages; and
that it was not my business to meddle with them, unless they first attacked
me; and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent: but that, if I were
discovered and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the other hand, I
argued with myself, that this really was the way not to deliver myself, but
entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for, unless I was sure to ki11_every
one that not only should be on shore at that time, but that should ever
come on shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell their country-
people what had happened, they would coine over again by thousands to
revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only bring upon myself a
certain destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded that I ought, neither in principle nor in
policy, one way or other, to concern myself in this afi'air: that my business
was, by all possible means, to conceal myself from them, and not to leave
the least sign for them to guess by that there were any living creatures
upon the island--I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with this
prudential resolution; and I was convinced now, many ways, that I was
perfectly out of my duty when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures--I mean innocent as to me. As to the
crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do with
them; they were national, and I ought to leave them to the justice of God,
who is the Governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments,
to make a just retribution for national ofi'ences, and to bring public judg-
ments upon those who ofi'end in a public manner, by such ways as best
please Him. This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater
satisfaction to me than that I had not been sufi'ered to do a thing which I
now saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a sin than

that of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble
I"
thmkaonmyheeatoGodthat He had thus delivered me honiblood.
guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the protection of His providence,
that I might not fall into the hands of the barbarians, or that I might not
lay my hands upon them, unless I had a more clear call fi'om Heaven to do
it, in defence of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this; and so far
was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, that' in all
that time I never once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been on shore there, or
not, that I might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, Or be provoked by any advantage that might present itself, to fell
upon them: only this I did; I went and removed my boat, which I had
on the other side of the island, and carried it down to the east and of the
whole island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found under some
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not, come with their boats upon any account whatever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left there belonging to
her, though not necessary for the bare going thither,- via. a mast and. sail
which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which indeed
could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the bestI
could make of its kind: all these I removed, that there might not be the
least shadow for discovery, or appearance of any boat, or of any human
habitation upon the island. Besides this, I kept myselflss I said, more
retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell except upon my constant
employment, to milk my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part of thevisland, was out of danger;
for certain it is that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this
island, never came with any thoughts of finding anything here, and con-
sequently never wandered ofi' from the coast, and I doubt not but they
might have been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them
had made me cautious, as well as before. Indmd, I looked back with. -
some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would have been,--
if I had'chopped upon them and'been discovmd before that; whemnaked,
and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded ofien onlywith small
shot, I walked everywhere, peeping and peering about the island to see
What I could get, what a surprise should I have been in, if, when I
discoveredtbeprint of a man's foot,I had, instead ofthat, seenfifieen or
Wenty savages and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftneu of their '

165
running, no possibility of my escaping them! The thoughts of this some-
times sunk my very soul within me, and distressed my mind so much that
I could not soon recover it, to think what I should have done, and howl
should not only have been unable to resist them, but even should not have
had presence of mind enough to do what I might have done; much less
what now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might be able
,to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I would be very
melancholy, and, sometimes, it would last a great while; but 'I resolved it
all, at last, into thankfulness to that Providence which had delivered me
from so many unseen dangers, and had kept me from those mischiefs which
I could have no way been the agent in delivering myself from, because 1
had not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the least supposi-
tion of its being possible. This renewed a contemplation which often had
come into my thoughts in former times, when first I began to see the
merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through in this
life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we know nothing of it; how,
when we are in a quandary (as we call it), a doubt or hesitation whether to
go this way or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we
intended to go that way: nay, when sense, our own inclination, and
perhaps business, has called us to go the other way, yet a. strange impres-
sion upon the mind, from we know not what springs, and by we know not
what power, shall overrule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards
appear, that had we gone that way which we should have gone, and even to -
our imagination ought to have gone, we should have been ruined and lost.
Upon these, and many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain rule
with me, that whenever I found those secret hints or pressings of mind, to
doing or not doing anything that presented, or going this way or that way,
I never failed to obey the secret dictate ; though I knew no other reason
for it than such apressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could
give many examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life,
but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island;
besides many occasions which it is very likely I might have taken notice
of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I see with now. But it is
never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all considering men,
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or
even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations 0f _
Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence they will.' That

I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for; but certainly they are
166
a proof of the converse of spirits, and a secret communication between
those embodied and' those unembodied, and such a proof as can never be.
withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some very remarkable
instances in the remainder of my solitary residence inthis dismal place.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange, if I confess that
these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was
now upon me, put anend to all invention, and to all the oontrivances that
I had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences. I had the care
of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I might
make should be'heard: much less would I fire a gun for the same reason:
and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest' the smoke,
which is visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed that part of my business which required fire, such as
burning of pots and pipes,'&c. into my new apartment in the woods; where,
after I had been some time, I found to my unspeakable consolation a more
natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare say.
no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture

in ; nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing

so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where, by
mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all
such things now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches
of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on I must observe the reason of
mymakingthischarcoahwhichwasthus: Iwasafraid ofmakin'gasmoke
about my habitation, as I said before; and yet I could not live there
without baking my bread, cooking my meat, 8w. ; so I contrived to burn
somewoodhere, asIhad seen done in Englandunder turfltill it became
chark or dry coal: and then putting the fire out, I preserved'the coal to
carry home, and perform the other services for which fire was wanting,
without danger of smoke. But this is by the bye. While I was cutting
down some wood here, I perceived that, behindla very thick branch of low
bmshwocd or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place: I was curious
to look in it; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it
was pretty large, that is to say. sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and
perhaps 'ancther with me: but I must confess to yea that I made more
haste out than I did in, when looking tarther into the place,.and which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creator's, whether

16? ' ' .
devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light
from the eave's month shining directly in, and making the reflection
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call myself a
thousand fools, and to think that he that was afraid to see the devil, was
not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone; and that I might well
think there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself
Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and in I rushed
again, with the stick flaming in my hand: I had not gone three steps in,
before I was almost as much frightened as before ; for I heard a very loud
sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken
noise, as of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped
back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a cold
sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it that my
hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits as well
as I could, and encouraging myself a little with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to protect me, I stepped
forward again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over
my head, I saw lying on the ground a monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, just
making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying, indeed, of mere
old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed
to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with myself he
might even lie there--for if he had frightened me, so he would certainly
fright any of the savwes, if any of them should be so hardy as to come in
there while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round me,
when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it might be about
twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither round nor square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it but those of mere Nature.
I observed also that there was ,a place at the farther side of it that went in
further, but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and
knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not; so, having no candle,
I gave it over for that time, but resolved to go again the next day provided
with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles of
my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tallow, but
was hard set for candlewick, using sometimes rags or rope-yam, and some-

times the dried rind of a weed-like nettles); and going into this low place
168CRUSOE FINDS A DYING NIH-GOAT IN THE CAVE.

I was obliged to creep upon all--fours, as I have said, almost ten yards---
which, by the way, I thought was a. venture bold enough, considering that
I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I had got
through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty
feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as
it was to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave--tho wall
reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rook--whether diamonds or any other precious stones, or gold-'--
which I rather supposed it to be--I knew not. The place I was in was a
most delightful cavity, or grotto, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry
and level, and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was
no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any damp
or wet on the sides or roof. The only difficulty in it was the entrance--
which, however, as it was a. place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, _I thought was a convenience ; so that I was really rejoiced at the
discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of those things
which I was most anxious about to this place; particularly, I resolved to
bling hither my magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz. two

f0Wh'ng--piecea--for I had three in all--and three musketse--for of them I
169 .
had eight in all; so I kept in my castle only five, which stood ready
mounted like pieces of cannon on my outinost fence, and were ready also
to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my
ammunition I happened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out
of the sea, and which had been wet, and I found that the water had pene-
trated about three or four inches into the powder "on every side, which

 

I CRUSOE TEACHB ms PARROT N TALK.

ceking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a. kernel in the
shell, so that I had near sixty-pounds of very good powder in the centre of
the cask. This was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of
powder with me 1'11 my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind; I also

carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
17o
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said to
live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come at them; for I
persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five hundred savages were to
hunt me, they could never find me out--or if they did, they would not
venture to attack me here. The old goat whom I found expiring died in
the mouth of the cave the next day after I made this discovery; and I
found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover
him with earth, than to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent
ofi'ence to my nose.

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island, and
was so naturalized to the place and the manner of living, that, could I but
have enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the place to dis-
turb me, I could have been content to have capitulated for spending the
rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and
died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diver-
sions and amusements, which made the time pass a great deal more plea-
santly with me than it did before ;----first, I had taught my Poll, as I named
before, to speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me ; and he lived with me no less than
six-and-twenty years. How long he might have lived afterwards I know
not, though I know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a
hundred years. My dog was a pleasant and loving companion to me for no
less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age. As for
my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that I was
obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devouring me
and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and after some time continually driving them from me, and
letting them have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods,
except two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young, when
they had any, I always drowned; and.these were part of my family.
Besides these I always kept two or three household kids about me, whom
I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which
talked pretty-well, and would all call " Robin Crusoe," but none like my
first; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had done
with him. I had also several tame seapfowls, whose name I knew not, that
I caught upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I
had planted before my castle-wall being now grown up to a. good thick

grove, these 'fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
171(.'kUSOI'; BUIIIHS ms UUU.

was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, I began to be very well
contented with the life I led, if I could have been secured from the drefid
of the savages. But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be mm!

for all people who shall meet with my story to make this just observation
172 -ORUIUB VCRI'E CONTIV'IRD \Yl'l'fl H18 mm.

from it :--How frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in
Itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most
dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
Which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into.
I 001116. give many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable life;
but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the circum-
Stances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.

_ It Was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
?hll'd year; and this, being the southern solstice (for winter I cannot call
It), was the particular time of my harvest, and required me to be pretty
much abroad in the fields, when, going out early in the morning, even

before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
173
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles, toward that
part of the island where I had observed some savages had been, as before,
and not on the other side,---but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of
the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short Within
my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised; and yet I had no
more peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in
rambling ovor the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or any of my
works or improvements, they would immediately conclude that there were
people in the place, and would then never rest till they had found me out,
in this extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder

 

CRUSH}: HXIZH A LIGHT ON THE EMU"! IN THE EARLY MOP-N130.

after me, and made all things without look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence.
I loaded all my cannon, as I called them--that is to say, my muskets,
which were mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and
resolved to defend myself to the last gasp--not forgetting seriously to
commend myself to the Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to
deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians. I continued in this posture
about two hours, and began to be impatient for intelligence abroad, for I
had no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and musing whatI

should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer;
174WWWVWE

or aosmsox can-on

so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat place,
as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder after me, I set it up again
and mounted the top of the hill, and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purposc,I laid me down flat on mybelly on the
gmund, and began to look for the place. I presently found there were no
less than nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being extremely
hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarouadiet of human
flesh which they had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could
not tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon the
shore; and as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed to me to wait for the
return of the flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my side of
the island, and so near to me; but when I. considered their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate
in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the time
of the flood of tide, if they were not on shore before; and having made
this observation, I went abroad about. my harvest work with the more
composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made to the. west-
ward, I saw them all take boat and row (or paddle as we call it) away. I
should have observed, that for an hour or more before they went of they
were dancing, and I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my
glass. I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them; but whether they
were men or women I could. not distinguish. _

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my
shoulders, and two pistols m my girdle, and my great sword by my side
without a scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make went away
to the hill where I had discovered the first appearance of all; and as soon
as I got thither, which was not in less than two hours (for I could not go
quickly, being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been
three canoes more of the savages at that place; and looking out farther, I
saw they were all at seatogether,making over for the main. Thiswas a
dreadful sight to me, especially as, going down to the shore, I could see the
marks of horror which the dismal work they had been about had left

behinditviz. the bloodthe bones, and part of thefiesh of humanbodies
175
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so
filled with indignation at the sight, that I now began to premeditate the
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be whom or how many
soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which they made thus to
this island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen months before
any more of them came on shore there gain--that is to say, I neither saw
them nor any footsteps or signals of them in all that time; for as to the
rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far.
Yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant appre-
hensions of their coming upon me by surprise: from whence I observe,
that the expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if
there is no room to shake off that expectation, or those apprehensions.

During all this time I was in the murdering humour, and spent most of
my hours, which should have been better employed, in contriving how
to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time I should see them,--
cspeeially if they should be divided, as they were the last time, into two
parties ; nor did I consider at all that if I killed one party--suppose ten or
a dozen--I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and
so another, even ad infinitum, till I should be, at length, no less a. murderer
than they were in being man-eaters--and perhaps much more so. I spent
my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting that I
should one day or other fall into the hands of these merciless creatures; and
if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not without looking around me
with the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my
great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a. tame flock or herd
of goats, for I durst not upon any account fire my gun, especially near that
side of the island where they usually came, lest I should alarm the
savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have them come
again with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three
months more before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I found
them gain, as I shall soon observe. It is true they might have been there
once or twice; but either they made no stay, or at least I did not see
them; but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my
four-andetwentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with them; of
which in its place

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen months'

interval was very great; I slept unquietly, dreamed always frightful
176
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night In the day,
great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night, I dreamed often
of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify doing it.
But to wave all this for a while.----It was in the middle of - May, "on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor Wooden calendar would reckon,
for I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the sixteenth of May

.'ffleel';$~""'.- H; :

   
   

;_yv.u ~'\\ tug

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CRIN"; "HAM A GUN FIRED AT SEA.

that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of

llghtning and thunder, and a very foul night it was after it. I knew

not what was the particular occasion of it; but as I was reading in the

Blble, and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present condi-

hon, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.

. This was, to be sure, a surprise quite of a different nature from any I had
177 ' N
met with before; for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of
another kind. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable; and, in a
tricc, clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after
me; and mounting it the Second time, got to the top of the hill the very
moment that a llash oi' lire bid me listen fora second gun, which, accord~
ingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and by the sound, knew that it was
from that part of the sea where l was driven down the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be seine ship in distress, and that
they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and tired these for
signals of distress, and to obtain help. 1 had the presence of mind, at that
minute, to think, that though i could not help them, it might be they
might help me; so 1 brought together all the dry wood I could get at
hand, and, making a good handsome pile, 1 set it on fire upon the hill.
The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and, though the wind blew very
hard, yet it burned fairly out ; so that I was certain, ii' there was any such
thing as a ship, they must need see it. And no doubt they did; for as soon
as ever my tire blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several
others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long. till
daybreak: and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, 1 saw
something at a great distance at sea, full cast of the island, whether a sail
or a hull I could not distinguish--no, not with my glass ; the distance was
so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at least, it was so
out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, aml soon perceived that it did not
move; so I presently concluded that it was a. ship at anchor; and being
eager. you may he sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran
towards the south side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly
been carried away by the current; and getting up there, the weather by
this time being perfectly clear, 1 could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the
wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I
found when I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were
the occasion of my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in in all my life. Thus, what is one man's safety is
another man's destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they were.
being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had
been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at ENE.

Had they soon the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they
178WUEOE cm A VIEW 0' 1'3: wnncx.

must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore
by the help of their boat; but their firing off guns for help, especially when
they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts. First, I
imagined that upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into
their boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea running
Very high, they might have been cast away. Other times, I imagined that
they might have lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways;
particularly, by the breaking of the sea. upon their ship, which many times
obliged men to stave, or-take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw
it overboard with their own hands. Other times, I imagined they had
some other ship or ships in company, who,.upon the signals of distress they

made, had taken them up, and carried them off. Other times, I fancied
179
they were all gone ofi' to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean,
where there was nothing but miseryand perishing: and that, perhaps, they
might by this time think of starving, and of being in a condition to eat
one another. ,
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition I was in,
I could do no more than look on upon the misery of the poor men, and pity
them; which had still this good efi'ect upon my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and comfortably
provided for me in my desolate condition; and that of two ships' companies,
who were now cast away upon this part of the world, not one life should be
spared but mine. I learned here again to observe, that it is very rare that
the providence of God casts us into any condition so low, or any misery so
great, but we may see something or other to be thankful for, and may see
others in worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was the case
of these men, of whom I could not so much as see room to suppose any
were saved; nothing could make it rational so much as to wish or expect
that they did not all perish there, except the possibility only of their
being taken up by another ship in company; and this was but mere pos-
sibility indeed, for I saw not the least sign or appearance of any such thing
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange longing I
felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out sometimes thus :--"0 that
there had been but one or two, nay, or but one soul, saved out of this ship,
to have escaped to me, that I might but have had one companion, one
fellow-creature, to have spoken to me and to have conversed with l " In all
the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire- after
the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the want of it
There are some secret sprigs in the affections, which, when they are set
a-going by some object in view, or, though not in view, yet rendered present
to the mind by the power of imagination, that motion carries out the soul,
by its impetuosity, to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the
absence of it is insupportable. Such were these earnest wishings that but
. one man had been saved. I believe I repeated the words, "0 that it had
been but one I " a thousand times; and my desires were so moved by it, that
when I spoke the words my hands would clinch together, and my fingers
, Would press the palms of my hands, so that if I had had any soft thing in
my hand, I should have crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in my head

would strike together, and set against one another so strong, that for some
1890]" sensor 0211303.

time I could not part them again Let the naturalists explain these things,
andthereasonandmannerofthem. All I can do is, to describe the fact.
which was even surprising to me when I found it, though I knew not from
whence it proceeded; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of
strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort which the conversa-
tion of one of my fellow Christians would have been to me. But it was not
to be; either their fate or mine, or both, forbade it; for till the last year of
my being on this island, I never knew whether any were saved out of that
ship or no; and had only the affliction, some days after, to see the cor-pm of
a drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island which was next the
shipwreck. He had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so
much as to guess what nation he was of He had nothing in his pockets
but two pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe--the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first. ,

Itwasnowcalm,andIhadagreatmind to venture out in my boatto
this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on board that might be
useful to me. But that did not altogether press me so much as the possi-
bility that there might be yet some living creature on board, whose'life I
might not only save, but-might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last degree; and this thought clung so to my heart that I could not
be quiet night or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board
this wreck; and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the
impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be resisbd--that
it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should-he wanting
to myself if I 'did not go. '

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle, pre-
pared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of
freshwater, acompass to steer by, a bottle ofrum (for I had still a great
deal of that left), and a basket of raisins; and thus, loading myself with
everything necessary, I Went down to my boat, got the water out of her, get
her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more.
My second cargo was a great bag of rice, the umbrellato set up over myhead
for a shade, another large pot of flesh water, and about two dozen of small
loaves, or, barley cakes, more than before, with a bottle .of goat's-milk, and a
cheese: all which with great labour and sweat I carried to my boat;xand
praying toGodtodimctmyvoyagaI putoutandmwing orpaddlingth'e
canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost pointfof the island on. the .'

1811.13311")me

north-east side. And now I was to launch out into the com and either
to venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island at a distance, and which were very
terrible to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before,
and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into
either of those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and
perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that then, as
my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be
inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my
enterprise; and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I
stepped out, and sat down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and
anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was musing,
I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come on; upon
which, my going was impracticable for so many hours. Upon this, presently
it occurred to me, that I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could
find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay when
the flood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out,
I might not expect to be driven another way home, with the same rapidity
of the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye
upon a little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from
whence I had a clear view of the currents or sets of the tide, and which
way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found, that as the current
of ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so the current of the
flood set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to
do but to keep to the north side of the island in my return, and I should do
well enough.

Encouraged by this observation, I resolved, the next morning. to set out
with the first of the tide; and, reposing myself for the night in my canoe.
under the watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I first made a little out
to see, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which set
eastward, and which carried me at a great rate; and yet did not so hurry
me as the current on the south side had done before, so as to take from me
all government of the boat; but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I
went, at a great rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I
came up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its
building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks. All the

sternandqusrterofherwerebeatenlopiecesbythe sea; and as her fore-
188
castle, which stuck' in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her main-
mast and foremast were brought by the board-that is to say, broken short
ofi'; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared firm.
When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me
coming, yelped and cried}; and, as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea
to come to me. I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead with
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he devoured it like
a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow; I then
gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have let
him, he would have burst himself. After this I went on board; but the
first sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle
of the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is I
indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea-
broke so high, and so continually over her, that the men were nor able to
bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as
much as if they had been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing
left in the ship that had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor, whether wine
or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water
being ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw
several chests, which, I believe, belonged to some of the seamen; and I got
two of them into the boat, without examining what was in them. Had the
stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart broken ofi', I am persuaded I
might have made a good voyage ; for, by what I found in these two chests,
I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and, if
I may guess from the course she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond
the Brazils to the Havannah, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to
Spain. She'had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that
time, to anybody; but what became of the crew I then knew not

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about twenty
gallons, which I got into my boat with much difficulty. There were several
muskets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds
of powder in it: as for the muskets, I had no occasion for them. so I left
them, but took the powder-horn. I took a tire-shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles,a copper pot tomake .
chocolate, and a gridiron, and with this cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again: and the same evening, about an

. 188
hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the last
degree I reposed that night in the boat; and in the morning I resolved to
harbour what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all mycargo on shore, and began to
examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a kind of mm,
but not such as we had at the Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good; but
when I came to open the chests, I found several things of great use to me :
for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind,
and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bottles held about
three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very
good succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt-water
had not hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had spoiled.
I found some very good shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a
dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckoloths ; the
former were also very welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my
face in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found
there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred
pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all
weigh near a pound. In the other chest were some clothes, but of little
value; but, by the circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's
mate; though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of fine glazed
powder, in three flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling-pieces on
occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any
use to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was
to me as the dirt under my feet, and I would have given it all for three
or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had had none on my feet for many years. I had, indeed, got two
pair of shoes now, which I took ofi' the feet of the two drownedanen whom
I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the chests, which
were very welcome to me; but they were not like our English shoes, either
for ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found
in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight, in rials, but no gold: I
suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed to
belong to some ofiicer. Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which I had brought from our
on ship; but it was a great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship

had not come to my share; for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
184
several times over with money; and, thought I, if I ever escape to England.
it might lie here safe enough till I come again and fetch it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, I went
back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old
harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet. I began now to
repose myself, live alter my old fashion, and take care of my family afi'airs;
and for a while I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I
used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and if at
any time I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part of the
island, where I was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where
I could go without so many pmcautions, and such a load of arms and am-
munition as I always carried with me if I went the other way. I lived in
this condition near two yam more; but my unlucky head, that was always
to let me know it was born to make my body miserable, was all these two
years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get
away from this island: for, sometimes I was for making another voyage to
the wreck, though my reason told me that there was nothing left there
worth the hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes
another: and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee
in, I should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. I
have been, in all my circumstances, a W to those who are touched
with the general plague of mankind, whence, for aught I know, one-half of
their miseries flow; I mean that of - not being satisfied 'with the station
wherein God and Nature hath placed them: for, not to look back upon my
primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my father, the opposition to
which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the
same kind had been the means of my coming into this miserable condition;
for had that Providence which so happily seated me at the Brazils as a
planter blessed me with confined desires and I could have been contented
to have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time--I mean in the
time of my being in this island--one of the most considerable planters in the .
Brazils: nay, .I am persuaded, that by the improvements I had made in that
little time I lived there, and the increase I should probably have made if I '
had remained, I might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores: and
what business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation,
improving and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch. negroes.
When patience and time would have so increased our stock at home, that we

.185
could have bought them at our own door from those whose business it was
to fetch them? and though it had cost us something more, yet the difl'erence
of that price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard But as
this is usually the fate of young heads, so reflection upon the folly of it is as
commonly the exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of
time: so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the mistake taken root
in my temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my station, but was con-
tinually poring upon the means and possibility of my escape from this
place: and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the
remaining part of my story, it may not be improper to give some account of
my first conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape, and
how, and upon what foundation I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired in my castle, after my late voyage to
the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water, as usual, and my
condition restored to what it was before: I had more wealth, indeed, than I
had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no more use for it than
the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and-
twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitude, I was lying
in my bed or hammock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, no dis-
temper, no uneasiness of body, not any uneasiness of mind more than
ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no.
not a wink all night long, otherwise than as follows :--It is impossible to
set- down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great
thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's time: I ran over the
whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to
my coming to this island, and also of that part of my life since I came to
this island. In my reflections upon the state of my case since I came on
shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the
first years of my habitation here, with the life of anxiety, fear, and care,
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand.

. Not that I did not believe the savages had frequented the island even all the
while, and might have been several hundreds of them at times on shore
there; but I had never known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions
about it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the same, and
I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never really been
exposed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many very profitable reflec-
tions, and particularly this one: How infinitely good that Providence is

180 ' .
which has 'provided, in its government of mankind, such narrow bounds to
his sight and knowledge of things; and though he walks in the midst of so
many thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would
distract his mind and sinkhis spirits,he is kept serene and calm,byhaving
the events of things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers
which surround him.

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to reflect
seriouslyupontherealdangethadbeeninforsomanyyearsin thisvery
island, and how I had walked about in the greatest security, and with all
possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a
great tree, or the casual approach of night, had been between me and the
worst kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and
savages, who would have seized on me with the same view as I would on a
goat or turtle; and have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me,
than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself, if I
should say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Preserver, to whose
singular protection I acknowledged, with great humility, all these unknown
deliverances Were due, and without which I must inevitably have falleninto
their merciless hands

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in
considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I mean the' savages, and
how it came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of all things
should give up any of his creatures to such inhumanity--nay, to something
so much below even brutality itself--as to devour its own kind: but as this
ended in some (at that time) .fruitless speculations, it occurred to me to
inquire, what part of the world these wretches lived in? how far ed the
coast was from whence they came? what they ventured over so far from
home for? what kind of boats they had? and why I might not order myself
and my business so, that I might be able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me? p .

I never so much as traubled myself to consider what I should do with
myself when I went thither; what would become of me if I fell into the
hands of these savages; or how I should escape them if they attacked me;
no, nor so much as how itwas podble for me to reach the coast, and not be
attacked by some or other of them, without any possibility of delivering
myself. and if I should not fall into their hands, what I should do for
provision, or whither I should bend my course: none of these thoughts, I

say, so much as came in my way , but my mind was wholly bent upon the
187
notion of my passing over in my boat to the main land. I looked upon my
present condition as the most miserable that could possibly be; that I was

not able to throw myself into anything but death, that could be called
worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with
relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I came to
some inhabited country, and where I might find some relief; and, after all, -
perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might take me in;
and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end
to all these miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed
mind, an impatient temper, made desperate, as it were, by the long continu
ance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in the wreck I had
been on board of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
earnestly longed for--somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge
from them of the place where I was, and of the probable means of my
deliverance. I was agitated wholly by these thoughts; all my calm of
mind, in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispo-
sitions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no power
to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage to the main,
which came upon me with such force, and such an impetuosity of desire,
that it was not to be resisted

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such
violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as
if I had been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour of my
mind about it, Nature--as if I had been fatigued and exhausted .with the
very thoughts of it--tlnew me into a sound sleep. One would have
thought I should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything
relating to it: but I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning as
usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages,
coming to land, and that they brought with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage
that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life; and I
thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my little thick grove before
my fortification, to hide himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not
perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and
smiling upon him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming
to pray me to assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder, made him
go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant: and that

as soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, "Now I may certainly
188
venture to the main land, for this fellowwill servemeasapilot,andwill
tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go
for fear of being devoured; what places to venture into, and what to shun.'I
I waked with this thought; and was under such inexpressible impressions
of joy at the prospect'of my escape in my dream, that the disappointments
which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding that it was nomore than a
dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my only way to go
about to attempt an escape was, to endeavour to get a_ savage into my pos-
session; and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners. whom they had
condemned to be eaten, and should bring whither to kill. But these thoughts
still were attended with this difiiculty : that it was impofible to efi'eot this
without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them all ; and this
was not only a very desperate attempt, and might miscarry; but, on the
other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself; and my
heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for
my deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me
against this, they being the same mentioned before; but though I had other
reasons to offer now, viz. that those men were enemies to my life, and would
devour me if they could; that it was self-preservation, in the highest degree
to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acting in my own defence
as much as if they were actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, though
these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my
deliverance were very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means
reconcile myself to for a great while. However, at'last, after many secret
disputes with myself, and after great perplexities about it (for all these
arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head a long time),_ the
eager prevailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest; and
I resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into my hands, cost what
it would. My next thing was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was
very difiicult to resolve on; but as I could pitch upon no probable means '
for it, so I' resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they
.came on shore, and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures as the
opportunity should present, let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as'
ottenespossible, and indeed so often,thathas heartilytiredofit; forit '

was aboveayear andahalfthathaited; andforgreatpartofthatfime
189 '
went out to the west end, and .to the south-west corner of the island almost
every day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This was very discouraging,
and began to trouble me much, though I cannot say that it did in this case
(as it had done some time before) wear ofi' the edge of my desire to the
thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it:
in a word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight of these savages,
and avoid being seen by them, as I was now eager to be upon them
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages, if
I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I
should direct them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do me
any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with this affair; but
nothing still presented itself; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing,
for no savages came near me for a great while.

About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by long
musing had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of an
occasion to put them into execution), I was surprised one morning by
seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the island,
and the people who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight The
number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing
that they always came four or six, or sometimes more in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty or
thirty men single--handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed and discom-
forted. However, I put myself into the same position for an attack that I
had formerly provided, and was just ready for action, if anything had
presented. Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they made any
noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my
ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual;
standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the help
of my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty in number; that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they had
cooked it, I knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing, in I know
not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective, two
miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid
by, and were now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them
immediately fall; being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden

sword, for that was their way; and two or three others were at work
no
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the other victim
was left standing by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that
very moment, this poor wretoh, seeing himself a little at liberty, and
unbound, Nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly
towards me; I mean, towards that part of the coast where my habitation
was. I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived
him run my way; and especially whenI as I thought, I saw him pursued.
by the whole body; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in my grove: but
I could not depend, by any means, upon my dream, that the other savages
would not pursue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept my
station, and my spirits began to recover when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was I encouraged, when
I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained
ground on them; so that, if he could but hold out for half an hour, I saw
easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle. the creek, which I mentioned
often in the first part of my story, where I landed my cargoes out of the
ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there; but when the savage escaping came thither,
he made nothing .of it, though the tide was then up; but, plunging in,
swam through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran with
exceeding strength and swifiness. When the three persons came to the
creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and
that, standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was
very well for him in the end. I observed that the two who swam were yet .
more than twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that
fled from them. It came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed
irresistibly, that now was, the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion or assistant; and that I was plainly called'by Providence to
save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the' ladders with all
possible expedition, fetched my two guns, tbr they were both at-the foot of
the ladders, as I observed before, and getting up again with the same haste
tothe top of the hill,Icrossed towards theses; and having averyshort
cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way between the pursuers and,
the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled. who, looking bwk, was at; .

n1
tirst perhaps as much frightened at; me as at. them; but 1 hockoned with
my hand to him to come hack; and, in the mean time, I slowly advanced
towards the two that followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I was loath to tire, because
I would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would not have
been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke, too, they would not.
have known what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the
other who pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I
advanced towards him : but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he had
a bow and arrow, and was fitting it; to shoot at me: so I was then obliged
to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The
poor savage who fled, hut had stopped, though he saw hoth his enemies
fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire and
noise of my piece, that he stood stock still, and neither came forward, not
wth hackward, though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to come
on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward, which he
easily understood, and ozone a little way; then stopped again, and then a
little farther, and stopped again; and I could then perceive that he stood
trembling, as it' he had been taken priSoner, and had just lu-('ll to he killed,
as his two em-mies were. 1. beckoned to him again to come to me, and
gave him all the signs of encouragement; that I could think of; and he
came nearer aml nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelVe steps, in token
of acknowledgnu-nt for saving his life. I smiled at. him, and looked
pleasantly, and lwckoned to him to come still nearer; at. length, he came
close to me; and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid
his head upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon his
head; this, it seems, was in token of swearing to he my slave for ever. I
took him up and made much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But.
there was more work to (lo yet; for I perceived the savage whom I had
knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to
come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that he
was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I could
not. understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear; for they
were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted,
for above twenty-five years. But there was no time for such reflections
now ; the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit
up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid;

but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I would
192shoot him: upon this, my savage, for so I call him now, made a. motion to
me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side, which I
did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one blow. out

off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have done it
. 193 oan m armrest:-

socner or better; which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason
to believe, never saw a sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will even cut
ofi' heads with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had
done this, he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the
sword again, and with abundance of gestures which I did not understand,
laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had killed, just before me.
But that which astonished him most, was to know how I killed the other
Indian so far 011' ; so, pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
him; and I bade him go,as well as I could. When he came to him, he
stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one side, then
on the other; looked at the wound the bullet had made, which it seems was
just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood
had followed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took
up his bow and arrows, and came back ; so I turned to go away, and
beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that more might come
after them. Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
soImade signstohimagaintodo so. Hefell towork; andinaninstant
he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to bury the
timid, and thendragged him intoit, andcovered him; anddidsobythe
other also; I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour.
Then, calling him away, I carried him, not to my castle, but'quite away to
my cave, on the fartherpart of the island: so I did notlet my dream come
to pass in that part, that he came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave
him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I
found he was indeed in great distress for, from his running: and having
refreshedhim,Imade signs for himto go and lie down to sleep,showing
him a place where I had laid some rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which
I used to sleep upon myself semetimes; so the poor creature lay down, and
went to sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with straight
strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped; and, as I reckon, about
twenty-six years of age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in his face;
and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a European in his
countenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was long and- black.

194
not curled like wool; his forehead veryhigh and large; and a great vivacity
and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite
black, but very tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as
the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are, but of a
bright kind of a dun olive-colour, that had in it something very amable.
though not very easy to describe. His face was round and plump; his
nose small, not flat like the Negroes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his
fine moth well set, and as white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he awoke
again, and came out of the cave to me; for I had been milking my goats,
which I had in the inclosure just by: when he espied me, he came running
to me, laying himself- down again upon the ground, with all the possible
signs of an humble, thankful disposition, making a great many antic gestures
to show it. At last he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot,
and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and alter this,
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission, imagin-
able, to let me know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I under-
stood him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In alittle time Ibegmtospeaktohimandteachhimtospeakto
me; and, first, I let him know his name should be FRIDAY, which was the
day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory 'of the time. I like-
wise taught him to say Master; and than let him know that was to be my
name: I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and to know the meaning
ofthem. Igave himsomemflkinmearthenpotaud lethimseeme
dfinkitbefmhimandsopmybreadinit; andgavehimacakeof bread
to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
verygoodforhim. I kept there with him all thatnight; butassoonas
itwasday,Ibeckonedtohimtocomewithme, and let himknowIwculd
give him some clothes; at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark
naked. As we went by the pm where he had buried the two men, he
pointedexaotlyto theplaoe,and showed me the marks thathehadmade.
toflndthemagaiamakingsigns to me that we should digthemupagain
andeatthem. Atthis, Iappearedveryangry, axpressedmyabhorrenceot
it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my
hand to 'him to come away, which he did immediately, with great sub-
mission. Ithenledhimuptothetopofthehflltoseeifhisenemias
Were gone ; and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place
Where theyhad been,but no appearance of them ortheir canoes; sothat '

195 '
it was plain they were gone, and had left their two comrades behind them,
without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday with me,
giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back,
which I found he could use very dexterously, making him carry one gun
for me, and I two for myself; and away we marched to the place where
these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some fuller in-
telligence of them. When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in
my veins, and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the spectacle;
indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Eiday made
nothing of it. The place was covered with human bones, the ground dyed
with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of the triumphant
feast they had been making there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw
three skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and
abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me
understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that three
of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great battle between them and their next king, of
whose subjects, it seems, he had been one, and that they had taken a great
number of prisoners; all which were carried to several places, by those
who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done
here by these wretchcs upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a great fire upon it,
and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I showed
so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance
of it, that he durst not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know
that I would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this,'we came back to our castle; and there I fell to
work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a pair of linen
drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which I
found in the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well;
and then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would
allow (for I was now grown a tolerably good tailor); and I gave him a cap

which I made of hare's skin, very convenient, and fashionable enough; and
196CRUSDR DRHfiHHS FRIDAY.

thus he was clothed, for the present, tolembly well, and was mighty well
- pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he
went awkwardly in these clothes at first: wearing the drawers was 'very
awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders aml
the inside of his arms ; but a. little easing them where he complained they

hurt him, and'using himself to them, he took to them at length very well.
197
The next day, after I came home to my hutch with him, I began to con-
sider where I should lodge him; and, that I might dowell for him and yet
be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant place
between my two fortifications, in the inside of the last, and in the outside
of the first As there was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a
formal framed door-case, and a door to it, of boards, and set it up in the
passage, 9. little within the entrance; and, causing the door to open in the
inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders, too; so that
Eiday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall,
without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken
me; for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles, cover-
ing all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill; which was again
laid across with smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched over a
great thickness with the rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at
the hole or place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would
not have opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great
noise: as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night 'But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faithful,
loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; without passions, sullennees,
or designs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very affections were tied
to me, like those of a child to a father; and I dare say he would have

' sacrificed his life to save mine, upon any occasion whatsoever: the many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me
that I needed to use no precautions for my safety on his account

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that
however it had pleased God in His providence, and in the government of
the-works of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His
creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their
souls are adapted, yet that He has bestowed upon 'tbem the same powers,
the same reason, the same affections; the same sentiments of kindness and
obligation; the same passions, and resentments of wrongs, the same sense
of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
receiving good, that He has given to us; and that when He pleases to ofi'er
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to
apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowedgthan we are.
This made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several

occasions presented, how new a use we make of all thus, even though we
m
have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction. the Spirit
of God, and by the knowledge of His word added to our understanding;
and-why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so
many millions of souls, who. if I mightjudge bythis poor-savage,de
makeamuchbetteruseof itthanwe did. From hence,I sometimes was
ledtoofaetoinvadethesovemigntyofrrovidenoamduitweremaign
the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that
sightfromsome, andrevealit others, andyetexpect alike duty horn both;
butI shut it up, and checked my thoughts withthis conclusion: first; That
we did not know by what light and lawthese should be condemned; but
thatesGodwasnecessarily,aud,bythenatureoinsbeing,infinitely
holy and just, so it could not be, but if these creatures were all sentenced
toabsenoefiomflimselfiitwason aocountofsinningagainstthatlight.
whiohutheScriptumsayawasalswwthemselvesandbysuchrulesas
their consciences would acknowledge to be just, though thefoundationwes
notdiscoveredtous; and,secondly,That stinuweallaretheclayinthe
hand of the potter, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast thou formed
me thus!" .

But to return to my new companion :-I was greatly delighted with
him,andmade it mybueiness to teach himeverything thatwaspropato
make him usefiil,handy, and helpful; but especiallyto make him speak.
and understand me when I spoke; and he was the aptest scholar that'ever
was; and particularlywas so merry, so constantly diligent, and sopleased
when he could but understand me. or make me understandhim, thatitwas
verypleasanttometotalkto him. Now mylifebegento besoeasythat
Ibegsntosayto myselfithatcouldIbut havebeen safefiommore savages,
IcamdnotifIwasnevertoremovefi-omtheplacewhereIlived. .

Aftethadbeentwoorthree daysretumedtomyeastleIthought
that, in orderto bring Friday ofl' from his horrid way of feeding, andfrom
therelishof acannibal's stomach, Ioughttoleth'imtaeteother flesh; so!
took him out with me one morningtothe woods, Iwent, indeed,intending
tokillakid out of my ownflock, andbring it home anddreesit; butasi'
was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday ;--'" Hold," said I, "stand still;?'
and made signs tohimnottostir: iinmedietely, Ipresented mypiece, shot. '
snd'killed one ofthe kids. Thepocr creature, whohadatadistance
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor could
imagine how itwssdone. was sensibly surprised; hembledandshoohena '

\MANDADW

looked so amazed that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not
see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wounded; and, as I found presently, thought
I was resolved to kill him: for he came and kneeled down to me, and
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did not understand;
but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm; and
taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which
I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did: and while
he was wondering, and looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded
my gun again. Brand-by, I saw a great fowl, like a hawk. sitting upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I
called him to me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
though I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to
my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make
it fall, I made him understand that I would shoot>> and kill that bird;
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the. parrot
fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said to
him; and I found he was the more amazed, because he did not see me put
anything into the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful
fund of death and destructionin that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or
anything near or far off ; and the astonishment this created in him was
such as could not wear off for a long time; and, I believe, if I would have
let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself,
he would not so much as touch it for several days after; but he would
speak to it and talk to it, as if it had answemd him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill
him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to
him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some
time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered away a good
distance from the place where she fell: however, he found her, took her up,
and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his ignorance aboutthe
gun before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not to let
him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time: so I brought home the
kid, and the same. evening I took the skin ofl', and cut it out as well as I
could; and havinga pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the

flesh, and made some verygood broth. Afiethad begun to eatsorne, I
200 .0! 30313808 "U801

gavesome tomymamwho seemedveryglad of it. and liked itverywell;
but thatvwhiohwas strangestto himwes to see me eat salt with'it. 'He
modes sign to'ine thatthe saltwasnot good to eat; and putting a little
into his own month,- he seemed' to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter
at it, washing his mouthwith fieshwater after it: on the other hand,]
took some meat into my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as much as he had-done at the salt; but it would
not do; he would never oare-'for salt with mentor in his broth; at least,
not for a great while, and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved to
feasthimthe next daybyroastingapieeeofthe kid: thisIdidby
hangingitbeforethefireonastring,-as1hadseenmanypeopledoin.
England, setting two. poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one across
the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn
continually. This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that]
could not but understand him: and at last he told me, as well as he could,
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

The next day, -I set him to work to beating some com out, and sitting it
in the manner I used to do, as.I observed before; and he soon understood
howto do it aswellasI, especiallyafter hehad seenwhatthe meaning of
itwas,and that itwasto make bread of; for after that, Ilet him see me
make my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time, Friday was able to
doalltheworkformeaswellasIooulddoitmyself.

.I-began now to consider. that having two months to feed instead of one,
I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of
corn thaqused todo; soIrnarked outalarger piece ofland, andbegan
the fence inthe same manneras beforainwhieh Fridayworked notonly
verywillinglyand very hard, but did it very cheerfully: and I toldhim
what it was for; that it was for corn to make. more bread, because he was
now with me, and that I might have eriough'for him and myself too. He
appeared very sensible of that part and let me know that he thoughtl had
much more labour upon me on his account, than Ihad for myself; and that
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him' what to do. '

Thiswasthepleasantestyearofallthelifelled inthisplaee Friday
begah to tell; pretty well, and-understand the names of almosteverything I
had occasion to call for, and of every place I had tosend him to, audtalked
Semi deal to me; so that in shawl began none have unease-form!

.301 .

I
\

\
tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for before. - Besides
the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more
every day, and I began really to love the creattue; and on his side, I
believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love
anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any inclination for his own country
again; and having taught him English so well that he could answer me
almost any question, I asked him whether the nation that he belonged to
never conquered in battle? At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yea we
always fight the better; " that' is, he meant, always get the better in fight;
and so we began the following discourse. '--

Mastcr. --You always fight the better, how came you to be taken
prisoner then, Friday?

Frisky--My nation beat much for all that.

Marten--How best? If your nation beat them, how came you to be
taken '1

Friday--They more many than my nation, in the place where me was;
they take one, two, three, and me: my nation over-beat them in the yonder
place, where me no was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.

Heston--But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your
enemies then?

Friday--They run, one, two, three. and me, and make go in the canoe;
my nation have no canoe that time.

Huston--Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men
they take? Do they carry them away and eat them, as these didi

Friday--Yes, my nation eat mans too: eat all up.

Marten--Where do they carry them?

Friday--Go to other place, where they think.

Huston--Do they come hither?

Friday--Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place.

Master--Have you been here with them?

Franny--Yea I have been here (points to the N.W. side of the island,
which, it seems, was their side).

By this, I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the
savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the island, on the
same man-eating occasions he was now brought for: and, some time after,

whenItookthe eouragetocan'yhimtothat side, beingthesumel
m .
formerly mentionedhepreeently knew the placemnd toldmehe weethem'
once, when they eat up twenty memtmwomemend one child: he. could
nottdltwmtyinEngfiehhuthenmheredthemhyhyingeomyetonee
innrow,'andpointingtometote11themover.

Iheve toldthiepemegebeoeueeit introdueeewhet followe; thetefl'er
thhdimomlhedwithhimleekedhimhowfuitmhomouieland
wtheehoreandwhetherthecanoeewerenotofteuloet Heteldmethere
wesnodauger,nocenoeeever lost;hutthatefterelittleweyouttom
thenewaeeeumntmdwinielwayeoneweyinthemorningtheotherin
the afternoon. ThieIunderetood tobe no morethen the echo! the tide,
negoing outor coming in;hut1afterwerde undentood-itweeocoeeioned
by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river 0monoko,inthe mouthor
gulphofwhieh river,esItbund afmrmrdgourislandlny;endthatthie -
land which I penceived to heW.and N.W.wee the great inland Trinidad.
on the north point of the mouth of then'ver. Ieekedhideyethoueand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the eon, thecoeet, endwhet
nations were near: he told me ellhe knew, with the greatest openness
imaginable. Iaekedhimthennmeeoftheeeverelnetioneofhie-eortof
people, but could getno othernnmethen Ceribe: from whence I easily
understoodthatthemweretheCen'hbeenwhichourmepspleceonthe
partofAmex-icewhioh reaches from the mouth ofthe river 0:00ka to,
GlfianaandonwerdetoStMarthn Hetoldmethatupegneetway
beyondthemoon,thatwee,beyondtheeettingofthemwhichmuetbe
weetfmmtheir oountry,themdwe1t whiteheeldedmmhkemeend
pointed to my greatwhiekere, which I mentioned before; end that they
hadkilledmuoh mane,thatweehieword:hye11which1understood.he
meentthe Spaniardnwhoee crueltieeinAmericehadheenepmedoverthe
whole oountry,endwereremembered byallthenetionefi'om fethertoeon,

Iinquiredifhecouldtellmehowlmightgofiomthieiflmdandget
among them white men: he told me, "Yes. yeslyou maygointwo canoe."
Icould not undemtandwhnthemeentormahehimdeeoribetomeyvhnt
hemeentbytwocenogtfllethetwithgmtdificultnyouhdhemmt.
itmuetheinelefgehoeteebigeetwocenoee. Thiepu-tof'l'ridey'e
dieoouree-Ibogantoxeliehvexywen;endfromthietime1enterteined
somehopeethetonetimeorother,1mightfindenopportunitytomnke
myeeeepefi-omthieiahoeandthatthiepoor eevegemightbeemeeneto
helpme. ' .
.:I)ux_-ing thehugfixdethetl'fideyhedmbeenwithmndfiethe .
began to speak to me, and understand me, Iwas not wanting to laya
foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him
one time, who made him. The poor creature did not understand me at all,
but thought I had asked who was his father: but I took it up by another
handle, and asked him, who made the'sea, the ground we walked on, and
the hills and woods. He told me, "It was one Benamuckee, that lived
beyond all ;" he could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was
very old, "much older," he said, "than the sea or the land, than the moon
or the stars." I asked him then, if this old person had made all things,
why did not all things worship him? He looked very grave, and, with a
perfect look of innocence, said, "All things say 0 to him." I asked him, if
the people who die in his country went away anywhere? He said, "Yes;
they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether those they eat
up went thither too? He said, " Yes."

From these things, I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true
God: I told him that the great Maker of all things lived up there, pointing
up towards heaven; that He governed the world by the same power and
providence by which He made it; that He was omnipotent, and could do
everything for us, give everything to us--take everything from us; and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, and
received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us,
and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and His being able to
hear us, even in heaven. -He told me one day, that if our God could hear
us, up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Bana-
muekee, who lived but a little way ofl', and yet could not hear till they went
up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him if
ever he went thither to speak to him? He said, "No; they never went
that were young men; none went'thither but the old men," whom he called
their Oowokakee; that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious,
or clergy; and that they went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), and
then came back and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed,
that there is priestcraft even among the most blinded, ignorant pm in
the world; and the policy of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve
the veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only to be found in the
Roman, but, perhaps, among all religions in the world, even among the most
brutish and barbarous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and told him

that the pretence of their old men-going up to the mountains tosay Qto
804
their god Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word'from thence '
what he said was much more so; that if they met with any answer, or spake
with any one there, it must be with an evil spirit: and then I entered into
along discourse with him about the devil, the origin of him, his rebellion
agaithodhisenmitytomamthereason ofit, his settinghimselfup in
the dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead 'of ' God, and' as 'God,
and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin;
how he had a secret access to our passions and to our afieotions, and to
adapthissnarestoourinclinations, so as tocause us evento be our own
tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice. .

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the
devil as it'was about the being of a God: nature assisted all my arguments
to evidence to him even the necessity of a great First Cause--an overruling,
governing Power--a secret directing Providence; and of the equity and

.justioeof payinghomagetoHimthatmadeus,andthelike; butthere ap-
pearednothing ofthis kindinthe notion ofanevil spirit; ofhis originhis
being, his nature; and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to draw
usintodo sotoo: andthepoorcreaturepuzzledmeonoeinsuchamanner,
by a question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say
to him. Ihadbeentalkingagreatdealtohimof thepower of God,- His
omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His being a consuming fire to the workers
of iniquity; how, as He had made us all, He could destroy us and all the
world in a moment; and he listened with great seriousness to me all the
while. After this, I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy
intheheartsofmen, andused allhis malice and skillto defeat thegoo'd
designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and
the like. "Well," says Friday, "but you say Godis so strong, so great; is
he not much strong. much might as the devil? " " Yes, yes," says I,
"hiday; God is stronger than the devil: God is' above the devil, and
therefore we pray to God to tread him down under our feet..and enable us
to resist his temptations and quench his fiery darts." " But," says heagain,
" if God much stronger, much might as the wicked devil, why God no kill
the devil, so'make him no more do wicked?" I was strangelysurprised at
this question; and, atterall, though I was now an old.man, yet Iwas but
a young doctor, andill qualified for a easuist, or a. solverof dificulfies;
and-at first I could not tell what tosay; soI pretendsdnotto'hearhim"
andaskedhimwhathe saidzbut he wastooeamestforauanswer'to
forgethisquestion. sothathe repeateditintheverysamebrokenwordsas

205

I:
above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and I said, " God will
at last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be
cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not
satisfy Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, " ' Reserve at
last ! ' me no understand: but why not kill the devil now ; not kill great
ago i" " You may as well ask me," said I, "why God does not kill you or
me, when we do wicked things here that ofl'end him: we are preserved to
repent and be pardoned." He mused some time on this: "Well, well,"
says he, mightily all'ectionately, " that well : so you, I. devil, all wicked, all
preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again by him to
the last degree: and it was a testimony to me, how the mere notions of
nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a
God, and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the
consequence of our nature, yet nothing but divine revelation can form the
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption purchased for us; of 9.
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor at the footstool of
God's throne; I say, nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these
in the soul ; and that, therefore, the gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the
guide and sanctifier of his people, are the absolutely necessary instructors
of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the means of
salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man,
rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going out ; then sending
him for something a good way 011', I seriously prayed to God that He would
enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage ; assisting, by His Spirit,
the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the know-
ledge of God in Christ reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to
speak so to him from the Word of God, that his conscience might be con-
vinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. \Vhen he came again to me,
I entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption
of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the gospel
preached from heaven, viz. of repentance towards God, and faith in our
blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him as well as I could why our
blessed Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels, but the seed of
Abraham; and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the
redemption; that he name only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,

and the like.
206CR5"): lmnoo'n FRIDAY I}. RELIGION

l hau, God knows, more sincerity than knowreage in all the methods 1
took for this poor creature's instruction. and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will find, that in laying things
Open to him, I really informed and instructed myself in many things that
either I did not know, or had not fully considered before, but which
Occurred naturally to my mind upon searching into them, for the inform-
ation of this poor savage; and I had more affection in my inquiry after
thinge .upon this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, Whether this
poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be
thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my
habitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure: and when I reflected
that in this solitary life which I have been confined to, I had not only been

moved to look up to heaven myself, and to seek the hand that had brought
207
me here, but was now to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save
the life, and, for aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him to
the true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might
know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran through every part of my soul, and I
frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place, which I had so
often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have
befallen me.

I continued' in this thankful frame all the remainder of my time; and
the conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was
such as made the three years which we lived there together perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be formed
in a sublunary state. This savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I; though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the
Word of God to read, and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct, than if
we had been in England I always applied myself, in reading the Scrip-
ture, to let him know, as well as I (mild, the meaning of what I read; and
he again, by his serious inquiries and questionings, made me, as I said
before, a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever
have been by my own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain
from observing here also, from experience in this retired part of my life,
viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of
God, and of the doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid
down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and understood, that, as
the bare reading the Scripture made me capable of understanding enough
of my duty to carry me directly on to the great work of sincere repent-
ance for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life and salvation, to a
stated reformation in practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and
this without any teacher or instructor, I mean human; so the same plain
instruction sufliciently served to the enlightening this savage creature,
andbringinghimtobesuchaChristianas Ihaveknownfewequaltohim
in my life.

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention which have
happened in the world about religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or
schemes of Church government, they were all perfectly useless to us, and,
for aught I can yet see, they have been so to the rest of the world. We had

the sure guide to heaven, viz. the Word of God; and we had, blessed be
208
God, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing by
His word, leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and.
obedient to the instruction of His word. And I cannot see the least use
that the greatest knowledge of thetdispumd points of religion, which have
made such confusion in the world, would have been to us, if we could have
obtained it. But I must go on with the historical part of things, and take
every part in its order.

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty fluently, though '
in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own history, or at
least so much of it as related to my coming to this place ; how I had lived
there, and how long; I let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife
which he was wonderfully delighted with; and I made him a belt, with a
froghangingtoit, suchasinEnglandwe wearhangers in; andinthe frog,
instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England, which
I came from ; "how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to
one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave
him an account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and showed
him, as near as'I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in
pieces before, and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
when we escaped, and which I couldnot stir with my whole strength then;
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday
stood musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he
studied upon. At last says he, "Me see such boat like come to place at
my nation." I didvnot understand him a good while; but, at last, when
[had examined further into it, I understood by him, that a boat, such as
that had been, came on shore upon the country where he'lived': that is,
as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast away upon their
coast, and the boat might get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that
I never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither,
much lea whence they might come: so I only inquired after a description
of the boat . , -

Friday described the boat to me well' enough ; but brought me better to

understand himwhen he added with acme warmth, "We save the white
so>> ' rLIFEAND mm

mans from drown." Then I presently asked if there were any white man,
as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he said; "the boat fill]. of white
mans." I asked him how many. He told upon his fingers seventeen I
asked him then what became of them. He told me, "They live, they
dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined that
these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in the
sight of my island, as I now called it; and who alter the ship was struck
on the rock and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their
boat, and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages. Upon this
I inquired of him more critically what was become of them. He assured
me they lived still there; that they had been there about four years; that
'the savages left them alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked
him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them. He said,
.<< No, they make brother with them ; " that is, as I understood him, a truce;
and then he added, " They no eat mans but when make the war fight ;"
that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight with them,
and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the top of the
hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, I had, in a
clear day, discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather
being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main land, and, in a
kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I
was at some distance from him. I asked him what was the matter. " 0
joy!" says he; "0 glad! there see my country, there my nation!" I
observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
had a mind to be in his own country again. This observation of mine put
a great many thoughts into me, which made me, at first, not so easy about
my new man Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that, if
Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget all
his religion, but all his obligation to me, and would be forward enough to
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back, perhaps, with a
hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might be
asmerryusheusedtobewiththoseofhis enemieewhentheyweretaken
in war. But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for which I
was very sorry afterwards However, as my jealousy increased, and held

me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and-not so familiar and
no
kind to him as before: in which I was certainlywrongtoo; thshonsst,
grateful creature having no thought about it, but what-consisted with-the -.
best principleaboth as a'religious Christian, and as a grateful friend; as -
appeared afierwardstomyfullsatisfaction.

While my jealousy of.him lasted, you may be sure I-was every day
pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the-new thoughts which I
suspected were in him; but I found everything he said was so honest and
so innocent. that I could find nothing to.nourish my suspicion; and, in
spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again; nor
did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not
suspecthim of deceit.

. One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy atsea,
so that we could not see the continent, I called to him, and said, "Friday,
do not you wish yourself in your own country, yourown nation?" "Yes,"
hesaid, "IhemuchOgladto beatmyownnation." "'_What would you:
do there?" said I: "wouldyouturnwild again, eat men'fflesh again, and
beasavage, asyouwere before?" He lookedfullof concern, and shaking
his head, said, "No, no, Friday tell them to live good, tell them to pray
God; tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no sat man again. --
"Why, then," said I to him, "theywill kill you." He looked gravest that,
and then said, "No, no, they no kill me, they willing love learn." He
meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He added, they learned
muchof thebeardedmansthatoameintheboat. ThenIaskedhimifhe
wouldgobaoktothem. Heamiledatthatandtoldmethathscouldnot
swimsofar. Itoldhimeould make a canoeforhim. Hetoldmehe
wouldgo,if Iwould go with him. "Igol' saysI; *whythey'will eat
me if I come'there.' "Nome," sayshe, "me make theynoeatyouyrns
make they much love you." He meant, he would tell them how I had
killedhis enemies, and savest life, and so he wouldmak'e thorn-loveme
'I'henhetold me,aswellashe oouldhowkindthe'ywerstossv'enteen
whitememorhearded memes hecalled them,whocame onshorethere
in distress. ,

I'romthistimeloonfesalhad amind toventure over, andseeifI
could possiblyjoin with those bearded men, who'I made no doubt were-
Spaniards and Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could, ws-inightifind'
some method to escape from thencabeing upon'the continentzanda good
compuytogether, betterthanIcouldfi-om an islaudfortymiles oflthe

shore, alone. and without help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work.
an
again, by way of discouise, and told him I would give him a boat to go
back to his own nation; and, accordingly, I carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it of water
(for I always kept it sunk in water), I brought it out, showed it him, and
we both went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, and would make it go almost as swift again as I could. So when he was
in, I said to him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He
looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems was because he thought
the boat was too small to go so far. I then told him I had a bigger; so the
next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I had made,
but which I could not get into the water. He said that was big enough;
but then, as I had taken no cure of it, and it had lain two or three-such
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was rotten.
Friday told me such a. boat would do very well, and would carry " much
enough vittle, drink, bread ;"--this was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going
over with him to the continent, that I told him we would go and make one
as big as that, and he should go home in it. He answered not one word,
but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with
him. He asked me again, " Why you angry mad with Friday t--what me
done i" I asked him what he meant. I told him I was not angry with
him at all. "No angry!" says he, repeating the words several times;
" why send Friday home away to my nation? " "Why," says I, " Friday,
did not you say you wished you were there 2 " " Yes, yes," says he, " wish
we both there; no wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he
would not think of going there without me. " I go there, Friday?" says I,
" what shall I do there?" He turned very quick upon me at this. " You
do great deal much good," says he; " you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new life." "Alas,
Friday!" says I, "thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man mysel ." "Yes, yes," says he, " you teaches me good, you
teaches them good." " No, no, Friday," says I, "you shall go without me;
' leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He looked confused
again at that word; and running to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. " What must I do with
this 2" says I to him. " You take kill Friday," says he. " What must I
kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick--" What you send
Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke

212FRIDAY SHOWS BIB 8mm) MID" N CROW]:

so earnestly that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly
discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him,
that I told him then, and often after, that I would never send him away
from me, if he was willing to stay with me:

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discouise a settled affection to
me, and that nothing could part him from me,' so I found all the foundation
of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to
the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as I had
no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought or intention, or desire

0f undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination to attempting my
213 .
escape, founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse, that there
were seventeen boarded men there ; and therefore, without any more delay,
I went to work with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell, and
make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were
trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas or
canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the main thing I looked at
was, to get one so near the water that We might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched
upon a tree; for I found he knew much better than I what kind of wood
was fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree
we cut down, except that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or between
that and the Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and
smell. Friday wished to burn the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools; which,
after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in about
a month's hard labour, we finished it and made it very handsome;
especially, when, with our axes, which I showed him how to handle, we
cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat After this,
however, it cost us near a fortnigth time to get her along, as it were
inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water: but when she was in,
she would have carried twenty men with great case.

When she was in the water, though she was so big, it amazed me to
see with what dexterity andihow swift my man Friday could manage her.
turn her, and paddle her along. So I asked him if he would, and if we
might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, " we venture over in her very
well, though great blow wind." However, I had a farther design that he
knew nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a sail, and to fit her
with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy enough to get; so
I pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree, which I found near the place,
and which there were great plenty of in the island, and I set Friday to
work to cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape and order it.'
But as to the soil, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,"
or rather pieces of old sails, enough; but as I had had them now six-and-
tw ty years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve. them, not
imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for them, I did not
doubt but they were all rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so. How-
ever, I found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and with these I

went to work; and with a great deal of pains, and awkward stitching, you
an""T'F'H:

 

or aomsorr causes;

may be sure, for want of needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly
thing, like what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go' with
a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our
ahips' long.boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to manage, as it '
was such a one as I had to the boat in which I made my escape from
' Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last work, viz. rigging and
fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them very complete. making a
small stay, and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist if we should turn to wind-
ward; and, what was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the' stern of her to
steer with. I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness,
and even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to
do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though, considering the many dull
contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as much
labour-as making the boat. '

After allthis was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what'
belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he 'knew very well
how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing of what belonged to a sail and a
rudder; and was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and
again in the sea by therudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filledthis way
or that way, as the course we sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he
stood like one astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that of the compass I could make him understand very little. 0n the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass, seeing
the stars were always to be seen by night, and the shore by day, except in-
the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by land
or sea. '

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my captivity in
this place; though the three last years that I had this creature with me
ought rather to "be led: out of the account, my habitation being quite of
another kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of
mylandingherewith the samethankfulnessto Godi'or His msroiesa's at.
first: andifIhadsnchcauseofacknowledgment atiirst,Ihadmuchmore .
so now, having such additional testimenies of the cars of Providence over'
me, and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily delivered;
for I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance .

215 ' '

'11:
was at hand, and that I should not be another year in this place. I went
on, however, with my husbandry; digging, planting, and fencing, as usual.
I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.

The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me, when I kept more
within doors than at other times. We had stowed our new vessel as secure
as we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and hauling her up to the
shore at high water-mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just
big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water enough
to float in; and then, when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay dry as to the tide from
the sea: and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many houghs of trees, so
thick that she was as well thatched as a house; and thus we waited for
the months of November and December, in which I designed to make my
adventure

then the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my design
returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage. And
the first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being
the stores for our voyage; and intended in a week or a fortnight's time, to
open the dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and hid him to go to the
sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise, a thing which we
generally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.
Friday had not been long gone when he came running back, and flew over
my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he
set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me,
" 0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad ! "--" What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "0 yonder there," says he, "one, two, three canoes; one, two,
three!" By this way of speaking, I concluded there were six; but on
inquiry I found there were but three. " Well, Friday," says I, " do not be
frightened." So I heartened him up as well as I could. However, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for nothing ran in his head but
that they were some to look for him, and would cut him in pieces and eat
him; and the poor fellow trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do with
him. I comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in- as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him. " But," says I,
" Friday, we must resolve to fight them. 'Can you fight, Friday?" "Me

shoot," says he, "but there come many great number." "No matter for,
216

a.O! ROMEO! 080303

that'eaid I, again; "our guns willfright them thatwe 'do not -kill.' so
I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and
stand by me, and do justasI bidhim. He said, "Me die, when you bid
diameter." So Iwent and fetcheda good dram of rum and gavehim;
fothadbeenso good a husband of myrum,that Ihadagmatdealleflz
When he had drunk it, I made him take the two fowling-pieoes, which we
always carried, and loaded them with large swan~shot, as big as small
pistol-bullets. Then I took four muskete, and loaded them with two slugs,
and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of
bullets each. I hang my great sword, as usual, naked by my'side, and
gave Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective-glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could
discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were one-and- twenty
savages, thme prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole business
seemed'to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies; a
barbarous feast, indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observed, was
usual with them. I observed also, that they had landed, not where they I
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my'creek, where the
shore was low, and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea
This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretehes came
about, filled me with such indignation that I came down again to Friday,
andtoldhimeas resolved to go down to them,and kill them all; and
askedhimif hewould etandbyme. Heh'ad nowgot Werhisfiightand
his spiritsbeingalittleraisedwith thedra'mI hadgivenhimhewasvery
cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.

Inthis fitof furyI divided the armswhich I had ohargeiuebefore,
betweenus; Igave Fridayonepistolto stickin his girdlaandthreeguns
upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol and the other three guns myself;
andinthisposturewemarohed out. I took asmall bottleof ruminmy
pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets; and as
toorders, I chargedhimtokeep elosebehindme, and nottostir, or shoot,
or do anythingtillI bidhim, and' m the mean time not tospeakaword.
Inthisposture Ifetched a compass to myright hand ofnear a mile,"
wellto getoverthecreekasto getintothewood, eothatIconldcome
within shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.

WhileIwasmakingthismarch, myfomerthoughtsmtuminglbegan

to abate my resolution :--I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their -
217 . .
number, for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was
superior to them--nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred to my
thoughts, what call, what occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to
go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done or
intended me any wrong? who, as to me, were innocent, and whose barbarous
customs were their own disaster, being in them a token, indeed, of God's
having left them, with the other nations of that part of the world, to such
stupidity, and to such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon
me to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice,
--that whenever He thought fit He would take the cause into His own
hands, and by national vengeance punish them as a people for national
crimes, but that, in the mean time, it was none of my business,--that it
was true Friday might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in
a state of war with those very particular people, and it was lawful for him
to attack them--but I could not say the same with regard to myself.
These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I
went, that I resolved I would only go and place myself near them that I
might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God
should direct; but that unless something offered that was more a call to
me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all possible wariness
and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to the
skirt of the wood on the side which was next to them, only that one corner
of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and
showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to me, andtold
me they might be plainly viewed there--that they were all about their fire
eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon
the send a little from them, whom he said they would kill next; and this
fired the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he had told me of, that came to their country
in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming of the white
bearded man; and going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands and his feet tied
with flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European, and had
chothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
218CRUEOB AND PRYDAY STEAL UPON THE IAVAGM

nearer to them than the place where I was, which, by going a little way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should be
within half a shot of them ; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed
enraged to the highest degree; and going back about twenty paces, I got
behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree,
and then came to a little rising ground, which gave me a. full view of them
at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful wretches
sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had just sent the other
two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him perhaps limb by limb to
their fire, and they were stooping down to untic the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday :---"Now, Friday," said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said
he would. " Then, Friday," says I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon
the ground, and Friday did the like by his, and with the other musket I
took my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like; then asking him
if he was ready, he said, "Yes." " Then fire at them," said I; and at the

same moment I fired also.
219
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he
shot he killed two of them, and wounded three more ; and on my side I
killed one, and wounded twa. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful
consternation; and all of them that were not hurt jumped upon their feet,
but did not immediately know which way to run, or which way to look, for
they knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes
close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as
soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the
fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he saw me cook and present; he
did the same again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he.
" Let fly, then," says I, "in the name of God E" and with that I fired again
among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were
now loaded with what I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found
only two drop; but so many were wounded, that they run about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them miserably
wounded; whereof three more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.

" Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking
up the musket which was yet loaded. "follow me," which he did with a
great deal of come; upon which I rushed out of the wood and showed
myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me,
I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too, and running as fast
as I could, which by the way was not very fast, being loaded with arms as
I was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying
upon the beach or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea
The two butchers who were just going to work with him had left him at
the surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and
had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.
I turned to Friday, and bade him step forwards and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be nearer them.
he shot at them; and I thought he had killed them all, for I saw them all
fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of them up again quickly;
however, he killed two of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay down
in the bottom of the boat as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife and cut
the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet, I
lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He
answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that he could

scarce stand or speak I took my bottle "out of my pocket, and gave it
220or lemon causal.

hingmeking signsthat he should drink,whiohhedid;and1gavehim a
piece of bread, which he ate, - Then I asked him what countryman he was:
and he said Espagniole ;- and being a little movered, let me know, by all
the signs he could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his
deliverance. " Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up,
"wewilltalkafierwards,butwemustflghtnow: if youhaveanystrength
left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about you." He took them very
thankfully; and no soonerhad he the arms in hishands,but,'as,ifthey
had put new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and
had cut two of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with
the noise of our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement and fear,
and had no more power to attempt their own escape, than their flesli had
to resist our shot: and thatwasthe case of those five that Friday shot at
in the boat; for as three of themfell with the hurt they received, so the
other two fell wrth the fright

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to keep
my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword:
so Icalledto Friday, and badehimrunuptothe treefrom whence wefirst
fired, andfetch the arms which laythers that hadbeendisoharged,whieh
he did with great swiftness; and than giving him my musket, I sat down
myself to load allthe rest again, and bade them come to me when they
wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engage.
meat between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him with
one of their great wooden swords, the weapon that was to have killed him
before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave
as could be imagined, though weak, had fought the Indian 9. good while,
and had out two great wounds on his head;- but the savage being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, being taint, and
was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard, though under?
most, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the
savage through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was
running to help him, could some new him.

Friday, being new lefl; to his liberty, pursued the dying wretohes, with
no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that be despatched those
threewho,as Isaidbeforewere woudedatfirstmdfallemandalltbe
resthecould comeupwith: and the Spaniard coming to me for a, gum-I
gave him one. of ' the fowling--pieces, with which he pursued two of the

221 .THE SPANIARD HAS A PIERCE ENGAGEMENT WITH A BAVAOI.

savages, and wounded them both; but, as he was not able to run, they both
got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one of
them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded,
yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his might ofi' to
those two who were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands, of one-and--twenty. The account of the whole is as follows :--
three killed at our first shot from the tree; two killed at the next shot;
two killed by Friday in. the boat; two killed by Friday of those at first
wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard;
four killed, being found dropped here and there, of the wounds, or killed
by Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one
wounded, if not dead--twenty--one 1n alL . .

Those that were in the canoe workedhard to get out of gunshot, and
though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find that he hit
any of them. Friday would fein have had me take one of their canoes,
and pursue them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest,
carrying the news home to their people, they should come back perhaps

with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by mere multitude;
222
soIconsentedto pursue them bysea, andrunning to one of their canoes,
I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I
was surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot,
as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look up over
the side of. the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been tied
so long, that he had really but little life in him. -

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound him
with, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or spam but
groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound
inordertobekilled. WhenFr-idaycametohim,1badehimspealrtohim,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle, made him give
the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being delivered.
revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear
him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to
have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his own face and head ; and then sung and jumped about again like
a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came a little to him-
self, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstasy and
filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father,
and of his being delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the
extravagances of his affection utter this; for he went into the boat, and out
of the boat, a great many times: when he went in to him, he would sit
down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his bosom
for many minutes together, to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles,
which were numbed and stifi' with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands; and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum
out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of good.

This afi'air put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happy for us that
we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours ait'er, and before they
could be got a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all
night, and that from the north-west, which was against them, that I could
not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached their own coast.

But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father, that I could
as .
not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but after I thought no
could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme: then I asked him if he had
given his father any bread. He shook his head, and said, "None; ugly
dog eat all up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch
I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself; but-he would
not taste it, but carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three
bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had
no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat,
and run away as if he had been bewitched, for he was the swiftest fellow
on his feet that ever I saw: I say, he ran at such a rate that he was out of
sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called, and hallooed out too,
after him, it was all one--away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I
saw him come back again, though not so fast as he went; and, as he came
nearer, I found his pace slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen
jug or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he had got two
more cakes or loaves of bread: the bread he gave me, but the water he
carried to his father; however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little of
it. The water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I had
given him, for he was fainting with thirst

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was any
water left: he said "Yes ;" and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard,
who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and
was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree; and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude
bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that upon Friday's coming
to him with the water, he sat up and drank,_and took the bread and began
to eat, I went to him. and gave him a handful of raisins: he looked up in
my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted
himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his feet: he tried to
do it two or three times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled
and sopainful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ankles, and bathe them with mm, as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor afi'ectionate creature, eVery two minutes, or perhaps

less, all the while he was here, turn his head about, tosee if his father was
224
inthesemeplaeeendpoetureeshelefthimsitfing;audatlssthefound
he was nottobeseen; at which he stnrwdup, and, without epemnge.
wordflewwfiththatswifineumhimthetoneoouldeoamepemeivehis
feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he came. he only found
hehedlaidhimselfdowntoeasehislimbe, soFridayesmehaektome
presently; end thenIspoke to the Spaniard to let Friday helphimupfii
hemuldendleedhimtotheboetandthenhe shouldoerryhimtoour
dwelling, when I would take care of him. But Friday, 9. lusty strong
fellow,tooktheSpsninrduponhisbmhendcem'edhimeweymtheboet,.
andsethimdownsofilyuponthesideorgunneloftheoenogwithhisfeet
inthe inside ofit;endthenlifizinghimquitein,hesethimelosetohitI
father; and presenflysteppingontageimlsunohed thehoatofi', and paddled
it along the shore fasterthen I could walkthough the wind blew pretty
hardtoo;eohe'broughtthemhotheafeintoourmehundleevingthemin
theboet,raneweytofetchtheotheroenoe. Ashepassedmelspoketn
him,and askedhimwhitherhe went Heteldme,"Gofetchmore hoat:"
soaweyhewentlikethewind,forsurenevermanorhorserenlikehim;
andhehedtheotheroenoeinthem'eekelmostessoonasIgottoitby
lend; sohe wefied me over, and then went to help our new guests out of
theboetwhich he did; but theywere neither of them oblate walk; so -
that poor hidey knewnotwhattodo.

To mmdythiglwmrttoworkinmythoughhundesllingtphiday
to bid them sit down onthe bankwhilehe came to me,I soonmade a.
kind ofhend-barrowtoleythemon, and Friday and I carried them both
up together upon it between us.

But when we got themtothe outside of our well, or fortification, we
wereatsworseloesthanbeforeforitwesimpossibletogetthemover,
and Iwas resolved nottobreekit down;so Isettoworkagaimand
hiday and Lin sbouttwohoms'fimemedeeveryhnndaome tent,
covered with oldeaflgend shovethstwithboughs oftnees,beinginthe
Spamwithoutoumtwudfmogendhetweenthatendthegroveofyoung
wood-whiehlhadplanted; endherewemsdethemtwoheds ofsuch
thingessIhsd;viz.ofgoodrioe-etraw.withhlanketsleiduponittolie
omendsnothertoooverthemmneaohbed.

My island-was now peopled, andIthought myselfveryrichineub-
jecte; and it was a merry reflection; which I frequently made. how like
akingIlooked. FirstofelLthewholeeountrywasmyownproperty>>
sothstIhaden undoubted right of dominion Secondly, mypeoplewere

- as . e .
perfectly subjected: I was absolutely lord and lawgiver: they all owed
their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been
occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three subjects,
and they were of three different religions: my man Friday was a Protestant,
his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist.
However, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions :--But
this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and given
them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think of making
some provision for them: and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to take
a. yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock, to he
killed; when I cut off the hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces,
I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very good
dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth; and as I cooked it without-doors, for
I made no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent,
and having set a table there for them, I sat down, and ate my own dinner
also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged
them. Friday was my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed,
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages
pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one of
the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-arms, which, for
want of time, we had left upon the place of battle; and, the next day, I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open
to the sun, and would presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I could not think of
doing myself : nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all
which he punctually performed, and efl'aced the very appearance of the
savages being there; so that when I went again. I could scarce know where
it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little oonversation'with my-two new subjects ;
and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the
escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return
of them, with a power too great for us to resist>> His first opinion was, that
the savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that
night they went ofi', but must, of necessity, he drowned, or driven south to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured as they were

to be drowned if they were cast away3-but, as to what they would do
' sac
if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but. it was his opinion,
that they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell the people
they were all killed bythunder and lightning, not by the hand of man;
and that the two which appeared, via Friday and I, were two heavenly
spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
Thiahesaidheknewgbecauseheheerd themalleryout so,intheir
language one to another; for it was impossible for them-to conceive that
a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without
lifiingup thehand,aswas donenow: andthisold savagewas inthe
right; for, as I understood since, by other hands, the savages never
attempted to go overto the island afierwards, theywere so terrified with
the accounts given by those four men (for it seems they did escape the
see), that they believed whoever went to that enchanwd island would be
destroyed with fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and there-
fore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept always
upon my guard, with allmy army: for, as there were now four of us,
I would have ventured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the' open field,
at any time.

In a little time, however, no more" canoes appearing, the fear of their
comingworeofi'; and I began totake myformer thoughtsof avoyageto
the main into consideration; being likewise assured, by Friday's father,
thatImightdependupongood usagefrointheirnationmn his accountif'
I would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended whm I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there were sixteen
more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who having hen east away and
made theiresoape to thatsidafivedthereatpeacaindeed, withthe
savages,butwere very sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed,for life.'
Iaskedhim alltheparticularsoftheirvoyagaandfoundtheyweres
Spanish ship,boundfionitheBio delaPlatatotheHavannabeing
directedto leavetheirloadingtherewhichwaschieflyhidesaudsilver,
andtohring baokwhatEurepeangoodsthey couldmeetwiththere; that
they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom they- took out of another
wreck; thatfive oftheirownmenweie dmwnedwhenfirst the shipwes
mamamdaempedihmghinfiniadmgm'mdhwds and.
arrivedalmoststarvedonthe oaunihaleoast,where theyexpectedtohave'
beendevouredsverymornent. Hetcldmetheyhadsomearinswith"
them, but they whammy useless, forthattheyhsd maple: powdew',
nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provide themselves with
some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if they
had formed any design of making their escape. He said they had many
consultations about it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to build
one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears and
despair. I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from
me, which might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they were all
here, it might not be done. I told him with freedom, I feared mostly their
treachery and ill-usage of me, if I put my life in their hands; for that
gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always
square their dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they
did by the advantages they expected. I told him it would be very hard
that I should be the instrument of their deliverance, and that they should
afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where au-Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what accident soever
brought him thither; and that I had rather be delivered up to the savages,
and be devoured alive,~than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and
be carried into the Inquisition. I added that, otherwise, I was persuaded,
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands, build a barque large
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils southward, or to the
islands or Spanish coast northward; but that if, in mquital, they should,
when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their
own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to "them, and make my
case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness, that their
condition was so miserable, and that they were so sensible of it, that he
believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that
should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would
go to them, with the old man, and discourse with them about it, and
return again, and bring me their answer; that he would make conditions
with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under
my direction, as their commander and captain; and they should swear
upon the holy sacraments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to such
. Christian country as I should agree to, and no other; and to be directed
wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such

country as I intended; and that he would bring a contrast from them.
828
0, some)! 031730].

under their hands, for that purpose. Then he told me he would first swear
tomehimselfithathewouldneverstirfromme as long as he lived,tillI
gave him orders; and that hewould take my side to the last drop of his
blood. if there should happen the least breach of faith among his country-
, men. Hetold me theywere allof themverycivil, honest men,andthey
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons nor
clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out
ofallhopes ofever rsturningto their Own country; and that he was sure,
if I' would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me. '
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible,
andtosendtheold savage andthis Spaniard overto them to treat. But
whenwshadgotallthingsinieadinesstogo,the8paniardhimself started
an objection, which had so much prudence' in it on one hand, and so much
sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be very well satisfied in
it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades far at least
half ayear. Thecasewasthus: hehadbeenwithusnowabout amonth,
duringwhichtimeIhadlethimseeinwhatmanner I had provided, with
the assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what
stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which, though it was more than
sufficient for myselfi yet it was not sufficient, without good husbandry, for
my family, now it was increased to four; but much less would it be
sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he said, airmen, still alive, should
come over; and, least of all, would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if
we should build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of
America; so he told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him
and the other two dig and cultivate some more land, as much sol could
spare seed to sow, and that we should wait another harvest, that we might
have a supply 'of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than out of one difliculty into another. " You
know," says he, " the children of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for
theirbeingdeliveredout of Egypt, yet rebelled evenagainst GodHimself,
that delivered them, when they came to want bread in the wilderness." '
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could'not
but be very well"pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with
his fidelity; sowefelltodigging, allfourofus, aswellasthewooden
foolswewere furnishedwith permitted; and,in abouta month's stime,by'

the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as much land cured and
229
trimmed up, as we sowed two-and-twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen
jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare: indwd, We
left sin-selves barely suficient for our own food for the six months that we
had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our
seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
ground in that country.

Having new society enough, and our number being suficient to put us
out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their number had been
very great, we went freely all over the island, whenever we found occasion;
and as we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was im-
possible, at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. For this
purpose, I marked out several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and
I set Friday and his father to cut them down; and then I caused the
Spaniard. to whom I imparted my thoughts on that afi'air, to oversee'and
direct their work. I showed them with what indefatigable pains I had
hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like, till
they made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick: what pro-
digious labour it took up, any one may imagine

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame goats
as much as I could; and for this purpose, I made Friday and the Spaniard
go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we took our
turns), and by this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with
the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added
them to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing the grapes coming
on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I
believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we
could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our breed, formed
a great part of our food--very good living, too, I assure you, for they are
exceedingly nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the most
plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was enough to
answer our end; for, from twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and
thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bushels ;. and the like in
proportion of the rice; which was store enough for our food to the next
harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or,
if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled

our ship to have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any part
2306' 30mm 'OBUSOE

ofAmerica. When we had thus housed and resound our magazine officer-n.-
we fell to work to make more wicker-ware, via. great baskets, in which we
keptit; and the Speniardwasveryhandy and dexterous atthispart. and
ofienblamedmethatIdid notmake somethingsfor defenceofthis kind
ofwork;butIsawnoneedofit '

And now, having a full supply of food to: all the guests I expected, I
gavethe Spaniard leave togoover to themaimtoseewhat he could do
withthosehehadlefthehindhimthere. Igavehimastriotchargenotto
bring any man who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and the
old savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or attack the person
heshould findintheisland, whowassokindas to send firthem in order
to their deliverance; but that they would stand by him and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command; and that this should he put in writing, and
signed in their hands. How they were to have done'this, when I knew they
had neither pen nor ink, was a question which we never asked. Under
these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage, the father of Friday,
went away in one of the canoes which they might be said to have come it:
or rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by
the savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about
eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions.

This was acheerful work, beingthe first measures used byme, inview
of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for
many days, and suflicient for all the Spaniards for about eight days' time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them go, agreeingwith them about
a signal they should hang out at their return, by which I should know
them again, when they came back, at a distance, before they came on shore.
They went away, with a iair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by
my account in the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of
days, afier I had once lost it,I could never recover it again; nor had I
kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I was right;
though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined my account, I found 'I
had kept a true okoning of years. '

Itwasnol than eight days I hadwaited for them,when a strange
and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been
heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning,.when my

281 '
man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, "Master, master, they
are come, they are come I " I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went
as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by
the way, was by this time grown to be averythick wood; I say,regardlesa
of danger, I went without my mm, which was not my custom to do: but
I was surprimd, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in : also I observed, presently, that they did not come from that
side which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these were not the
people we looked for, and that we might not know yet whether they were
friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and, having taken the ladder out,
I climbed up to the top of the bill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive
of anything, and to take my view the plainer, without being discovered. I
had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a
ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance from me,
S.S.E., but not above a league and a half from the shore. By my observation,
it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of seeing a ship,
and one that I had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen,
and consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe ; but yet I had some
secret doubts hung about me--I cannot tell. from whence they came--
bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first" place, it occurred to me to
consider what business an English ship could have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part of the world where the
English had anytraflic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive
them in there, in distress; and that if they were really English, it was most
probable that they were here upon no good design; and that I had better
continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which some
times am given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being
real. That such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have
made any observations of things can deny; that they are certain discoveries
of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if

the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we not
232
suppose they are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, or inferior
and subordinate, is not the question), and that they are given for our goodi
The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of this
reasoning; for had I not been made cautious bythis secret admonition,
come it from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a. far
worse condition than before, as you will see presently. I had not kept
myself longin this posturetill Isawthe boat drawnear the shore," if
they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing;
however, as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little
inlet where I formerly landed my rafis, but ran their boat on shore upon
the beach, at about half a mile from me; which was very happy for me ;
for otherwise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered
meofallIhad. Whentheywereonshore. Iwasfullysatisfiedtheywere
Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but
it did notprove so; therewereinallelevenmen, whereof threeof themI
found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the first four or
five of them were jumped on shore, they took these three out of the boat,
as prisoners: one of the three I could perceive using the most passionate
gestures of entreaty, afliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance;
the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a degme as the first. I was
perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of it
should be. Fridaycalled out to me in English, as well as he oould."0
master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why
Friday," says I, " do you think they are going to eat them, thenl'--" Yes,'
says Friday, "they will eat them."--"No, no," says I, "Eddayg'I am
afraid theywill murder themindeed; but you maybe sure theywillnot
eat them." ' ~
All this while I had, no thought of what the matter really was, bu
stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment when
the three prisoners should he killed; nay, once I saw one of thevillains
fiftuphisarmwithagmatoutlasaastheseamencallit,orsword,to
strike one of thepoormen; andIexpected toseehimfalleverymomant;
atwhichallthe'bloodinmybodyseemedtorunchillinmyveins.' I
wished heartily now for the Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with '
him, or thatl had any wayto have come undiscovered within shot of them.

that I might have secumd the three men, for I saw no firearms they had
283 '
among them; but it fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed
the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they wanted to see the
country. I observed that the three other men had liberty to go also where
they pleased; but they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive,
and looked like men in despair. This put me in mind of the first time
when I came on shore, and began to look about me; how I gave myself
over for lost; how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful apprehensions
I had; and how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured
by wild beasts. As I knew nothing, that night, of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the land bythe
storms and tide, by which I have since been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of
deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
effectually and really they were in a condition of safety, at the same time
that they thought themselves lost, and their case desperate So little do
we see before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend
cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance
by the means by which they seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at high water when these people came on shore; and while
they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in, they had
carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed consider-
ably away, leaving their boat aground They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too' much brandy, fell
asleep; however, one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and
finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the boat:
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps, the least of all man-
kind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about
the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling
them off from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? she'll float
next tidc;" by which I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what

countrymen they were. All this while I kept myself very close, not once
284or noamsox'okusbn

daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation."
nearthetop of thehill: andverygladeastothinkhowwellitwasfor--
tified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could float
again, and bythat time itwould be dark, and I might be at'moreliberty
to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any. In the
mean time, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though 'with more
caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I' had at
first I ordered Friday also, whom I had made anexoeJlent marksman with
his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieoea and I
gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my
formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and. a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it
was dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that
they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, laid down
to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition to
get any sleep, had, however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at
about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any of
the rest Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched as above, my man Friday
atagooddistanoebehindme,asformidableforhisarmsasLbutnot
maldngquitesostnfingaspectre--likefigmeasldid. Icameasnearthem
undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of them saw me, I called
aloud to them in Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?" They stmd up
at the noise, but were ten times more confounded when they saw me, and
the uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer at all, butI thought
I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in Eng-
lish: " Gentlemen," said I, " do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may
have a friend near, when you did not expect it." " He must be sent directly
from Heaven then," said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling off
his hat at the same time to me; "for our condition is past the help of
man." " All help is from Heaven, sir," said I: " but can you put a stranger
inthewaytohelpyou? foryouseemtobe insome greatdistress. Isaw
you when you landed; and when you seemed to make application to' the
brutes that came (ith you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."
Thepoorman, withtearsrunningdownhisfaee, and tremblinglooked
likeone astonishedreturned, "AmItalkiugto God, orman? Isitareal
man, or'an angeli"--"Be in no fear about that, sir," said 1-; "if Godhad
ass
sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and armed
after another manner than you see me; pray lay aside your fears; I am a
man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you; you see I have one ser-
vant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve
you? What 1s your case?" "Our case, sir,' 'said he, "is too long to tell
you, while our murderers are so near us; but, in short, sir, I was com
mander of that ship . my men have mutinied against me; they have been
hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore in

 

(""7305 APPEARS BEFORE THE DEPAIRJNG ""5083",

this desolate place, with these two men with me,--one my mate, the other
a. passenger, where we expected to perish, believing the place to be'unin-
habited, and know not yet what to think of i ." "Where are these brutes,
your enemies?" said I; " do you know where they are gone? " "There
they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; " my heart trembles for
fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will cer-
tainly murder us all." " Have they any fire-arms?" said I. He answered.
" They had only two pieces, one of which they left in the boat." "Well,

then," said I, " leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it is an easy
' 233
thing to kill them all ; but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told
methereweretwo desperatevillainsamongthemthatitwasscarcesafeto
show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were. He told me
he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my
orders in anything I would direct. "Well," says I, "let us retreat out of
their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve further." 80
they willingly went back with me. till the woods covered us from them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance, are you
willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated my proposals
by telling me that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly

dimeted and commanded by me in everything; and if the ship was not
recovered, he would live and die with me in what part of the world soever

I would send him; and the two other men said the same. "Well." says I,
" my conditions are but two ; first--that while you stay in this island with
me, you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your
hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no pre-
judice to me or mine upon this island, and in the mean time be governed
by my orders; secondly,--that if the ship is or may be recovered, you will
carry me and my man to England passage free."

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man could
devise that he would comply with these most reasonable demands, and
besides would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions as
long as he lived. " Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you,
with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is proper to be done".
He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able, but offered
to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but the best method I could think of was to fire on them at once
as they lay, and if any were not killed at the first volley, and ofi'ered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence
to direct the shot. He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill them.
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible villains, and had
been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped,"
should be undone still, for they would go on board and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well, then," says I, " necessity legi-
timates my adee,' for it is the only way to save our lives. " However.
seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go them-

selves, and manage as they found convenient.
237
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon
after we saw two of them on their feet I asked him if either of them were
the heads of the mutiny? He said, "No." "Well, then," said I, " you
may let them escape; and Providence seems to have awakened them on
purpose to save themselves. Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is
your faul " Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in
his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with
each a piece in his hand; the two men who were with him going first made
some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake, turned about, and
seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the
moment he cried out they fired--I mean the two men, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men
they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot,'and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping to him, told him it
was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his villany,
and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so
that he never spoke more ; there were three more in the company, and one
of them was slightly wounded. By this time I was come ;, and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy.
The captain told them he would spare their lives if they would give him an
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and
would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afierwards in
carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all
the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired; and he was
willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was not against,
only that I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while they
were on the island

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the boat,
with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and sails, which they
did; and by-and-by three straggling men, that were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing
the captain, who was before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they
submitted to be bound also; and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
mother's circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole history,
which he heard with an attention even to amazement--and particularly

at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with provisions and ammu-
assoraosntson 080301

mtiou; and. indeed, as my story is a- whole collection of wonders, it ad'ectcd
aim deeply. But when he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I
seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life, thetears
ran down his face, and he could not speak a word more. After this
communication was at an end, I carried him and his two men into my
apartment, leading them in just where I came out, via, at the top of the
house, where I refreshed him with such provision as I had, and showed
them all the contrivances I had made during my long, long inhabiting
that place. '

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I had .
concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been new planted
nearly twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than in England,
was become a little wood, so thick that it was impassable in any part of it
but at that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage into it
I told him this was my castle and my residence, but thatI had a seat in the
country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion. and I
would show him that too another time; but at present our business was to
consider how to recover the ship. He wd with me as to that, but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were
still six-and--twenty hands on board, who, having enmd into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be
hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if
they were subdued they would he brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies andthat, therefore,
there would be no attacking them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very
rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved on
speedily, as well to draw the'men on board into some snare for their
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon
this, it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's crew,
wondering what was become of their comrades and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other heat to look for them, and that then,
perhaps,.they might come armed, and be too strong for us:' this he allowed
toberational. U n this,I told him thefirst thingwehadto dowesto
stars the boat,- which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carryher
ofltandtaking everything-out ofher,1eave hersefaruselessas not tobe

fit to swim. Accordingly wewento board, took the armswhich werelefl,
ass
on board out of her, and whatever else we found there--which was a bottle
of brandy, and another of mm, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a
great lump of sugar in a. piece of canvas (the sugar was five or six pounds);
all which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of
which I had had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the cars, mast, sail, and
rudder of the boat were carried away before), we knocked a great hole in
her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet they
could not carry off the boat Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that
we could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went
away without the boat, I did not much question to make her again fit to
carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards
in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would not
float her off at high-water mark, and besides, had broke a hole in her
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were set down musing what we
should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and make a waft with her ensign
as a signal for the boat to come on board: but no heat stirred; and they
fired several times, making other signals for the boat. At last, when all
their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not
stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and
row towards the shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were
no less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view
of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces; because the
tide having set them a little to the east of the other heat, they rowed up
under shore, to come to the same place where the other had landed, and
where the boat lay; by this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of
whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were
led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but
that as for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief officer among. them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were
no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive
he was that they would be too powerful for us. I smiled at him, and told
him that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear;-tbat

seeing almost every condition that could be was better than that which we
2'00'. DOWN 030503.

were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the consequence, whether
death or life, would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he
thought of the circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for? "And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my being
preserved- here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little
while ago! For mypart," said I, "there seems to be but one thingamiss
in all the prospect of it." "What' rs that?" says be "Why," said I "it re.
that as you say there are three or four honest fellows among them, which
should be spared, had they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should
have thought God's providence had singled them out to deliver them into -
your hands; for depend upon it, every man that comes ashore is our own,
andshcll die orliveastheybehave tons." AsIspoke thiswitharaised
voice and cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we
set vigorously to our business. '

We had, upon the first appearance of the boats coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners; and we had, indeed, secured them
efi'ectually. Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than
ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered men, to my
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or
discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could have
delivered themselves. here they left them bound, but gave them provisions ,
and promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give them their
liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they
should be put to death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear
their confinement with patience, and were very thankful that they had such
good usage as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday gave them
candles (such a we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did not
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned.
indeed, because the captain was not able to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service, upon the captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die'with us; so with them and the
three honest men we were seven men, well armed; and I made no doubt
we should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming,
considering that thecaptain had said therewerethree orfourhoneetmen
amongthemalso. Assoonastheygotto theplacewhere theirother boat
lay,theyrantheir boatintothe beach and came all on shore, haulingthe

boatup afier them,whichIwas glad to see,for Iwas afraid theywould'
.861 n, .
rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with
some hands in her, to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the
boat. Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other
heat; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom
After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or three great
shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if they could make their
companions hear; but all was to no purpose: then they came all close in a
ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and
the echoes made the woods ring: but it was all one; these in the cave, we
were sure, could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it
well enough, yet durst give no answer to them. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go
all on board again to their ship, and let them know that the men were all
murdered, and the long-boat staved ; accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded, at this, believing
they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades
over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes
we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much frightened the
other way. .

They had not been long put off with the boat, when we perceived them
all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct,
which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look for
their fellows. This was a great disappointment to us, for now we were at a
less what to do, as our seizing those seven men on shore would be no
advantage to us if we let the boat escape; because they would row away to
the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and
so our recovering the ship .would be lost. However, we had no remedy but
to wait and see what the issue of things might present. The seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her ofi to a good
distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it
was impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that came on
shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill under
which my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly, though'they
could not perceive us. We should have been very glad if they would have

comenearertouasothatwemighthave firedatthemorthattheywould
m'I'IIK "H.038 CALL m THEIR CONRAD"

have gone farther off, that we might come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow of the hill where they could see a great way into the
valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-east part, and. where .the
island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were weary: and not
caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree to consider it. Had they thought lit
to have gone to sleep there, as the other part of them had done, they had
done the job for us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was they
had to fear.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of
theirs, viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to
make their fellows her, and that we should all sally upon them just at the
juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly

yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal,
248
provided it was done while we were near enough to come up to them before
they could load their pieces again. But this event did not happen; and
we lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to take. At length, I
told them there would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then,
if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get
between them and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them
in the boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very
impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long con-
sultation, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the sea: it
seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the place,
that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their companions
over for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, Limagined it to be
as it really was, that they had given over their search, and were going back
again; and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to
sink at the apprehensions of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem to
fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered
Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards
the place where the savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and
so soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile distance,
I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till they found the
seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer
them, they should return it again; and then, keeping out of sight, take a
round, always answering when the others hallooed, to draw them as far into
the island and among the woods as possible, and then wheel about again
to me by such ways as I directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed;
and they presently heard them, and, answering, ran along the shore west-
ward, towards the voice they heard, when they were stopped by the creek.
where, the water being up, they could not get over, and called for the boat
to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected When they had set
themselves over, I observed that the boat being gone a good way into the
creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within the land, they took one of the
three men out of her, to go along with them, and left only two in the boat,
having fastened her to the stamp of a little tree on the shore. Thiswas
what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate
to their business, I took the rest with me ; and, crossing the creek out of

their sight, we surprised the two men before they were aware--one of them
9440' 30311380! causes.

lyingontheshore, and the other'being in the boat nefellow onshore.
wasbo'tween sleeping and wakingand goingtostartup; thecaptaimwho.
was foremost,rau in upon him,and knocked him down; and then called
outtohimhthehoatteyieldorhewasadeadman. Thereneededvery
few arguments to persuade a singlemantoyieldwhen hesawfivemen
uponhimmdhiseomradeknockeddown: besideathiswaaitseemaone
of thethreewho were not so heartyinthemutinyastherestof theerew,
and therefore was easily persuaded not onlyto yieldhutafierwardsto-join-
very sincerely with us. In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate
so well manegedtheirbusiness with therest, that theydrewthem,by
hallooing and answering, from one hill to another, and from one wood to'
another, till they not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they could not remhback to the boat before it was dark;
and, indeed, they were heartilytiredthemselves also by the time they came
becktous.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to
fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several hours
afterFridaycamehaokto me beforetheyoamebacktotheirboat; andws
could hear the foremost of them, long before they came quite up, oallingto
those behind to come along; and could also hear them answer,.and oom-
plain how lame and tired they were, and not able to come any faster:
which was very welcome news to us. At length they came up to the boat:
but it is impossible to express their confusion when they flound the boat
fastagroundinthecmek,thefideehbedoutsndtheirtwomengone. We
could hear them call one to another 111 a most lamentable manner, telling
one another theyweregot intoanenehanted island; that either therewere
inhabitantsinit, and they shouldallbemurdered, orelsethere were'devils
andspirits init, and they shouldbeallearried away and devoured. They
heflooedagaimandealled their two comradesbytheirnemessgreatmany
times; hutnoanswer. After some time, we could see them,by.the little
light there was,run about, wringing their hands like men in despdrmnd
sometimestheywouldgoaudsitdownintheboettorestthemselves: than
comeashomagaimandwelkaboutagaimandsothesamethingoveragain.
Mymeniwouldfainhsvehadmegivethemleavetofalluponthematonee
inthedark; butIJvas wmingtotakethematsomesdvantsgasoasto.
aparethmandkillasfewof themasIcould;sndespecial1waes
unwillingtohasardthekillingofanyof cummknowingthe others
weleverywellarmed. I resolved towaittosee'if theydidnotseparstea

W
and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered. Friday and 'the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as elem
to the ground as they could, that they might not he discovered, and get as
near them as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.

'They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who was
the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the
most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them,
with two more of the crew; the captain was so eager at having this prin-
cipal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to let
him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue
before: but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on
their feet, let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon the spot : the
next man was shot in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die
till an hour or two after; and the third ran for it. At the noise of the
fire, I immediawa advanced with my whole army, which was now eight
men; viz. myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with
arms. We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was now
one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley
and so perhaps might reduce them to terms; which fell out just as we
desired: for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition then was, they
would be very willing to capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to
one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Toin Smith answered imme-
diately, " Is that Robinson?" for it seems he knew the voice. The other
answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and
yield, or you are all dead men this momen " " Who must we yield to?
Where are they? " says Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's our
captain and fifty men with him, have been hunting you these two hours;
the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if
you do not yield, you are all lost." "Will they give us quarter then?"
says Tom Smith, "and we will yield." " I'll go and ask, if you promise to
yield," said Robinson: so he asked the captain; and the captain himself
then calls out, "You, Smith, you lmow my voice; if you lay down
your arms immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all but
Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as I: " which, by
v 246Ol' normsox 6817501

theway,was not true; for, it seems,thisWil1 Atkins was the first man
that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutinied, and used him
buharously, in tying his hands, and giving him injurious language. How-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion, and
trust to the governor's mercy: by which he meant me, for they all called
me governor. In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged that
lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and two more, who
bound them all; and then my great army of fifty men, which, with those
three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them, and upon their
boat; only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the ship:
and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he expostu-
lated with them upon the villany of their practices with him, and upon the
further wickedness of their design, and how certame it must bring them to-
misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all
appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives. As for that, he
told them they were not his prisoners, but the commander's of the island
that they thought they had set him on ' shore in a. barren, uninhabited
island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was inhabited, and
that the governor was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there,
if he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed. he would
send them to England, to be dealt with there as justice required, except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for
death, for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired
efi'ect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intercede with the
governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for .God's sake, that
they might not be sent to England

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance was come, and
thatitwould beamosteasythingtobring thesefellowsintobeheartyin
getting possessionoftheship; so Iretiredinthe dark fromthem,thatthey
might not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me; whenIcaJled, atagooddistance, oneofthe meuwasorderedtospeak
again, and say to the captain, " Captain, the commander calls for you;" and.
presently the captain replied, " Tell his Excellency, I am just coming."
This more perfectly amazed them, and they all believed that the commander
wasjustby,with hisfiftymen. Uponthe captain comingtomaItold
him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfuny well, and

247 'mmmmwaw

resolved to put it in execution the next morning. But, in order to execute: .
it with more art, and to be secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins, and two more of the
worst of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay..
This was committed to Friday and the two men who came on shore with
the captain They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison: and it was,=
indeed, a dismal place, especially to men in their condition. The others I
ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full description:
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure enough,
considering they were upon their behaviour. ,

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into a
parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether he thought
they might be trusted or not to go on board and surprise the ship. He
talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition they were brought
to, and that though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as
to the present action, yet that if they were sent to England, they would all
be hanged in chains; but that if they would join in so just an attempt as
to recover the ship, he would have the governor's engagement for their
pardon. _ '

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by
men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to the captain, and
promised, with the deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to him
to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and would
go with him all over the world; that they would own him as a father to
them as long as they lived. " ell," says the captain, " I must go and tell
the governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent
to it." So he brought me anacoount of the temper he found them in, and
that he verily believed they would be faithful However, that we might be
very secure, I told him he should go back again and choose out those five,
and tell them, that they might see he did not want men, that he would take
out those five to be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the
other two and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as
hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved unfaithful in
the execution, the five hOMes should be hanged in chains alive on the
shore. This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in
earnest; however, they had no way left them but to accept it; and it was
now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade

the other five to do their duty.
"8Ol' . roamson 039303.

'Our strength wasnowthus orderedforthe expedition: iirst.the captain,
nis mate, and passenger: second. the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the captain, I had given their liberty,
andtrustedthem with arms: third,the othertwo thatIhad kepttilI-now
in my bower pinioned, but, on the captain's motion, had now released:
fourth, these five releasedatlast; sothattheywere twelve inalIbesides
five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages

I asked the captain if he was willing toventure with these hands on
board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, I did not think itwas
proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind; and it was employment
enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victuals. As to
the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice
a daytothem,to supplythemwith necessaries; andImsde theothertwo
carryprovisionstoacertaindistance, whereFridaywastotakethem.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain,
who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to loo]: afier
them; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any-
where but by my direction; that if they did, they would be fetched into
the castleandbelaidinirons: sothataswe never sufi'eredthemtoseeme
as governor, I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor,
the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions. '

The captain now had no difliculty before him, but to furnish his two
boats, stopthe breachofone, andmanthem. Hemadehispasseurger
captain of one, with four of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more,
went in the other; and they contrived their business very well, for they
cameuptothe slripaboutmidnight. As soon as they eemewithin cellof
the ahip,he made Robinsonhailthem, andtell them theyhad brought of
the menandtheboatbutthatitwas alongtimebefore theth found _
them, and the Ike; holding them in a chat till they came to the ship' a side;
when the captain and the mate entering first with their arms, immediately
knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men; they secured all the '
rest that were upon themain and quarter-decks, andbegan- to fastenthe
hatches, to keep them down that were below; when the other host and
their men, entering.- at the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship,
and the scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon deck,

thecaptain orderedthemaidwiththmememto break intotheround-
mn

LIFE AND mm'russs

house, where the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the slam had
got up, and with two men and a boy had got fire-arms in their hands;
and when the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and
his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket
ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more'of the men, but killed
nobody. The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-house,

wounded as he was, and, with his pistol, shot the new captain through the

 

fun u'vrmm serum is suo-r '

I
head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again behind\C/me 0'
his ears, so that he never spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured,.the captain ordered seven guns
to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with 'me to give me notice of
his success, which, you may' be sure, I was very glad to hear, having Sufi

watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning. Having
250 '
thusheardthe signalplainly, I laid me down; audit having beenaday
of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was surprised with the
noise ofa gun; and presentlystartingup,1 heard a. man call me bythe
name of " Governor! Governor] " and presently I knew the captain's voice;
when, climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and, po' ting to
the ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer."
says he, " there's your ship ; for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode, within
little more than half a mile of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor
as soon as they were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek; and,
the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place
where I had first landed my rafts, and so laudedjust at my door. I was at
first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw my deliverance,
indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and a large ship just
ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time,
I was not able to answer him one word; but as he had taken me in his
arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground. He
perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket
and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought on purpose for me.
After I had drunk it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it brought
me to myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a word to him.
Allthistimethepoormanwasinasgreatan ecstasyas I,on1ynot under
anysurpriseastas; andhe saida thousand kind and tender things to
me, to compose and bring me to myself; but such was the flood of joy in
my breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion: at last it broke out
into tears; and, in a little while after, I recovered my speech. I then took
my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I
told him I looked upon him as a man sent by Heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such
thingsasthesewerethetostimonieswehadof asecrethand ofProvideuce
governing the world, and an evidence that the eye of an infinite Power
could search into the remotest comer of the world, and send help to the
miserable whenever He pleased I forgot not to lift up my heart in,
thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him,,who
had not only in a miraculous manner provided for me in such'a wilderness,
and in such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must

always be acknowledged to proceed.
251cursor. xs ovflm'ol}: BY THE NEAR I'unsl'l-XT or hEuVr-IRAKCI'.

"'hen we had talked a while. the captain told me ne had brought me
some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded, and such as the wretchcs
that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this, he
called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that
were for the governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one
that was not to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still. First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held
two quarts each), two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces
of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a.
hundred-weight of biscuit; he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of
flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice. and abundance of

252
other things. But besides these, and what was a thousand times more
useful to me, he-brought me six new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths,
two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, with
a verygood suit of clothes of his own, which had beenworn but verylittle:
inaword,heclothedmefi'omheadtofoot Itwas averykind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances ,
but never was anything In the world of' that kind so unpleasant, awkward,
and uneasy asitwas to metowearsuch clothes at first
Afiertheseceremonieswere past, andafterall his goodthingswere
brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what was to be done
with the prisoners we had, for it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or .no, especially two of them, whom he .
knew to be incorrigible and refractoryto the last degree; and the captain
said he knew they were such rogues that there was no obliging them, and
if he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be
delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could come to; and
I found that the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon this, I
told him that, if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the two men he
spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave them upon the
island. "I should be very glad of that," says the captain, "with all my
heart." " Well," says I, " I will send for them up, and talk with them for
you. So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now dis-
charged, their comrades hsving. performed their promise; I say, I caused
them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned as they were,
to the bower, and keep them there till I came. After some time, I came
thither dressed in my new habit; and now I was called governor again.
Being all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought
before me, and I told them I had got a full account of their villanous
behaviour to the captain, and how they had run away with the ship, and
were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence had
ansnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into the pit
' which they had dug for others. I let them know that by my direction the
ship had been seized; that she lay nowinthe road; and theyinight see
by-and~by, that their new captain had received the reward of his villany,
_andthattheywouldseehimhangingat the yard-arm; that,as to them.I
wanted to know what they had to say why I should not execute them as
pirates, takeniuthefict, asbymycommissionthey couldno't- doubt butl-

had authority so to do.
253
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing
to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not
what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the
island with all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go for
England; and as for the captain, he could not carry them to England, other
than as prisoners in irons, to he tried for mutiny, and running away with
the ship; the consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless they had
a mind to take their fate in the island. If they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their lives,
if they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very thankful for
it, and said they would much rather venture to stay there than be carried
to England to be hanged So I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difliculty of it, as if he durst
not leave them there. Upon this, I seemed a little angry with the captain,
and told him that they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had
offered them so much favour, I would be as geod as my word; and that if
he did not think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty, as I found
them; and if he did not like it, he might take them again if he could catch
them. Upon this, they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them
at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods, to the place whence they
came, and I would leave them some firearms, some ammunition, and some
dimctions how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon this
I prepared to go on board the ship; but told the captain I would stay that
night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on board in the mean-
time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day
for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my apart-
ment, and entered seriously into discourse with them on their circumstances
I told them I thought they had made a right choice; that if the captain
had carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed them
the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they
had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told them
I would let them into the story of my living there, and put them into the
way of making it easy to them. Accordingly, I gave them the whole history

2540! 803111801? 0313801

of the place, and of my coming to it; showed them my hrtifications. the
wayImade mybreadplantedmycomonred mygrapes; and,in sword,
allthatwasnecessaryto make them easy. I told them the story also of
the seventeen Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter,
and made them promise to treat them in common with themselves. Here
it maybe noted that thecaptaimwhohad ink onboardwes greatlysur-
pfisedthatlneverhituponawayofmakingink ofcharcoalandwster, or
of' something else, as I had done things much more difficult.

I left them my fire-arms, viz. five muskete, three fowling-phces, and
three swords. Ihed above a barrel and a half of powder left; for after
thefirst year or tonused but 1ittle,and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fattenthem, andtomekebothhntterandcheese. In a wordIgave them
every part of my own story; and told them I should prevail with the '
captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-
seeds; which I told them I would have been veryglad of. Also,I gave
them thebag of peas which the captain had brought me to attend bade
them be sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board the
ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night. The
next morning early, two or the five men came swimming to the ship's side,
and, making the most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to be
taken into the ship for God's sake, for they should be murdered, and begged
the captain to take themonboard,thongh he hangedthem immediately.
Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power without me; but afier
some difiiculty, and afier their solemn promises of amendment, they were
taken on board, and were. some time after, soundly whipped and pickled;
afierwhichtheyprovedveryhonefiandqnietfallowa

Somefimeafierthiatheboatwasorderedonshmthetide being
np,withthethingspromisedtothemen; towhichthecaptaimatmy
intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they took.
andwereverythankfnl for. I alsoeneonragedthem.bytellingthem,that
ifitlayinmypowertosendanyvesseltotakethemin,Iwonldnot
forget them.

,. WhenItookleave ofthisisland,Icarried onboardfor rehqueathe
gmatgoatskincaplhadmademy umbrella, andoneof myparrcts; also,
I ibrgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which'had lain by

meaolongnselessthatrtwasgmwn mstyortsrnished,andoonldhard1y
ass
pass for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled, as also the money
I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the
19th of December, as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, utter
I had been upon it eight-amLtwenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the month that
I first made my escape in the long-boat from among the Moors of Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the llth of June,
in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years absent

\Vhen I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the world
as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful steward,
whom I had left my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great mis-
fortunes iu the world; was become a. widow the second time, and very low
in the world. I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her
I would give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her
former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would
afford ; which at that time would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her:
but I assured her I would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did
I forget her when I had suificient to help her, as shall be observed in its
proper place. I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was
(lead, and my mother and all the family extinct, except that I found two
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for me; so
that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that the little
money I had would not do much for me as to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect; and
this was, that the master of the ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and
by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some other merchants con-
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome compliment upon the
subject, and a present of almost PS200 sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my life,
and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved
to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come at some information of the
state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become of my
partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years past given me over
for dead. \Vith this view, I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in
April followinn- my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all

a :
2.16CRL'SOB VISITS "(It OLD CAPTAIN.

these ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occa-sions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular
satisfaction, my old friend, the captain of the ship, who first took me up at
sea ofl' the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left ofi' gomg

t0 sea. having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his ship
257 s
and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me; and
indeed, I hardly knew him. But I soon brought him to my remembrance.
and as soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who
I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us.
I inquired, you may be sure. after my plantation and my partner. The old
man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years; but that
he could assure me, that when he came away my partner was living; but
the trustees, whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of my part,
were both dead: that, however, he believed I would have a very good
account of the improvement of the plantation; for that, upon the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustee's had given in the
account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal,
who had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, oumthird to the
king, and two~thirds to the mental: of St Augustine, to be expended for
the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic
faith : but that, if I appeared a "one for me, to claim the inheritance,
it would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual production
being distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored: but he assured
me that the steward of the king's revenue from lands, and the providere, or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent,
that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the produce,
of which they had duly received my moiety. I asked him if he knew to
what height of improvement he had brought the plantation, and whether
he thought it might be worth looking after; or whether, on my going
thither, I should meet with any obstruction to my possessing my just right
in the moiety. He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the
plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my partner was groWn
oxeeeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it; and that, to the best of
his remembrance-he had heard that the king's third of my part, which
was, it seems, granted away to some other monastery or religious house,
amounted to above two hundred moidores a year: that as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made of
that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my name being also
enrolled in the register of the country; also he told me that the survivors
of my two trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and
he believed I would not only have their assistance for putting me in pos-

session, but would find a very considerable sum of .money in their hands
as.OI' senses 9317303.

for my account, being the produce of the term while their fathers held- the
hustandbefore itwas givenup,as above; whichuhermnemberedwas
for about twelve years

I showed myself a little' concerned and ,uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees should
thus dispose ofmyefi'ectawhenheknewthat Ihad made mywilhand
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, &c.

He toldme thatwas true; but that as therewasnoproofofmybeing
dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account should come
of my death; and, besides. he was not willing to inter-meddle with a thing
soremote: that it wastruehehadregistered mywilLaud put inhis claim;
and could he have given any mount of my being deed or alive, he would
have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingonio (so they call
the sugar-house), and have given his son, who was now at the Brazils,
orders to do it. "Bu ," says the old man, "I have one piece of news to
tell you, which perhaps my not be so acceptable to you as the rest; and
that is, believing you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did ofi'er to account with me, in your name, for the
first six or eight years' profits, which I received There being at that time
great disbursements for increasing the works, building -an ingenio, and
buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as afterwards it pro-
duced: however," says the old man, "I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how I have disposed of it"

After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he brought
me an? account of the first six years' income of my plantation, signed by my
partner and the merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods, viz.
tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses &c. which is
the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that every
year the income considerably increased; but, as above, the disbursements
being large, the sum at first was small: however,lthe old man let me see.
that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold,
besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls 0! tohm, which
were lostinhis ship; he havingbeenshipwmcked cominghome toIisbon,
about eleven yearsafter myleaving the pine. Thegocdmanthen-begsn
tooomplainofhismisfoflunegandhowhe had been obliged tornakeuse-
ofmymoney to recover his lcsses,and buyhim a share in.a new ship.
'However, myo'ld friend," says he, "you shall not want a supplyin' your
necessity; andasaoonasmysonretums, youshallbefully-Iatisfieds"

350

\mmm

Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one hundred and sixty
Portugal moidores in gold; and giving the writings of his title to the ship,
which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was quarter-pm
owner, and his son another, he puts them both into my hands for security
of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man
to be able to hear this; and remembering what he had done for me, how
he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used me on all
occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, I
could hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me; therefore I asked
him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at that
time, and if it would not straiten him? He told me he could not say but
it might strait/an him a little; but, however, it was my money, and I might
want it more then he.

Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I could hardly
refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one hundred of the
moidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them:
then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever I had possession of the
plantation I would return the other to him also (as, indeed, I afierwards
did); and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would
not take it by any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found
he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive
what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny more
from him.

When this was past, the old man asked me if he should put me into a
method to make my claim to my plantation. I told. him I thought to go
overto it myself. He said I might do so if I pleased; but that, if I did
not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to
appropriate the profits to my use: and as there were ships .in' the river of
Lisbonjustreadyto go awayto Brazil, he made me enter mynamein a
public register, with his affidavit, firming, upon oath, that I was alive,
and that I was the same person who took up the land for the planting the
said plantation at first This being' regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration afiixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing,
to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place; and then proposed _my
staying with him till an account came of the return. .

Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon this

procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large packetfrom
socor romeo: arena

the survivors of my trusteeathe merchants, for whose mount I went to
sea, in which were the following particular letters and papers inclosed.

First, there was the account-current ofthe produce oimy farm or
plantation, from the year when their-hthers had balancedpwith my old
Portugal captain, being for six years; the balance sppmd to be one
thousand one hundrfi and seventy-four incisions in my favoun

Secondly, there was the account of four years more. while they kept the
eEects in their hands,.bei'ore the government claimed the administration,
asbeing the effects cfa person notto befouud,wbich they called civil
death; and the balance of this, the value of the plantation increasing,
amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six orueadoes, being,
about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores.'

Thirdly, there was the Prior of St. Augustine's account, who had
receivedthepmflts forabovefourteen years; but not being to accountfor
what was disposed of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight
hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed which he acknowledged
to my account: as to the king'sput, that'refunded nothing. >>

There was a l tier of my partner's, congratulating mover-y afl'ectionately

upon my being alive, giving 'me an account how the- estate was improved,

and what it produced a year; with the prticulars of thumbs:- of squares
or acres that it contained, how plamed, how many slaves there were upon
it: and making two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, told me he had said
so many Am Marius to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive-5 inviting
me very passionately to come over and take possession of my own; and, in
the mean time, to give him orders to whom he should deliver my efi'ects, if
I did not come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship;
and that of his family; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards?
skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other ship
that he had sentthither, and which, it seems, had made a better voyage
than I. He sent. me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By thesame, fleet;
my two merchant-trustees shipped me one thousand two hundred chestetol
anger, eight hundred rolls of tobacco. and the rest of the whole. account
in gold. _ ' ' _~

I might well say now, indeed, that the-latter end of Job was.better than.

the beginning. , It is impossible toexpress the flutterings. of my very heart .

whenI foundallmy wealthahcntme; for-as the Brazil shipsoomehallia
fleets, the same ships, which. brought my letters brought my-goohrznnd
an - .'

 

.33Cnl'sol NEEDS A PIIYBICIAH.

the effects were safe in the river before the letters came to my hand. In a
word, I turned pale, and grew sick; and, had not the old man run and
fetched me n cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset
nature, and I had died upon the spot: nay, after that, I continued very ill.
and was so some hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of
the real cause of my illness being known, he ordered me to be let; blood;
after which I had relief, and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not
been cased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died-

I was new master, all on a. sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the BraziIS.
of abore a. thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England:
and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to under-

stand, or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing
262romeo: (3080!.

I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good old captain, who
hsdbeenflrst charitableto meinmy distress, kindto meinmybeginning,
andhonesttome at the end. I showed him all thatwas sentto me; I
told him that, next to the providence of Heaven, which disposed all things.
itwasowing to him; and that it nowlayon me to rewardhim,whichI
would do a hundred-fold: so I first returned to him the hundred moidores
I had received ofhim; then I sent for a notary. and caused him to draw
up a general release or discharge from the four hundmd and seventy
moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and
firmest manner possible. Afier which, I caused a. procuration to be drawn,
empowering him to be the mceiver of the annual profits of my plantation;
and appointing my partner to account with him, and make the returns, by
thensualfleets,tohiminmyname; and bya clause in the end, made a
grant of one hundred moidores a year to him during his life, out of the
' effects, andfiftymoidoresayeartohis sonafterhim, forhislife: andthus
I requited my old man.

I had now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to
do with the estate that Providence had thus put into my hands; and
indeed,I hadmore careupon my head nowthsn I hadin my silent state
of life in the island, Where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had
nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon-me,
and my business was how to secure it. I had not a'cave no'w'to hide my
money in, or a place where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew
mouldy and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it; on the
contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it My old
patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me thither;
butnowIeonldnottellhowtothinh-of goingthithertillIhadsettledmy
affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At first I
thought of my old friend the widow, who I- knew was honest, and- would
bejust to me; but then she was in years, and but poor; and, for aught I
knew,mightbe in debt; so that,in sword, I had newsybut to goka
to England myself, and take my efl'ects with me. , : ' ' ' ' '

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and there'-
fore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction, wh'o
hadbeen my former benefactor, so Ibegantothinkofthepoorwidow,
Whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it'wasin her
power, my faithful steward and instructor. So, the first thing I' did, I got

' 9681.113me

a merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only
to pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her. in money, a hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by
telling her she should, if I lived, have a further supply: at the same time,
I sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they being,
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one having been
married and left a widow; and the other having a husband not so kind to
her as he should be. But, among all my relations or acquaintances, I could
not yet pitch upon one to whom I dnrst commit the grass of my stock, that
I might go away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and this
greatly perplexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled myself
there, for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place; but I had some little
scruple in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back. How-
ever, it was not religion that kept me from going there for the present;
andasIhadmadeno ecrupleofbeingopenlyofthereligionoftheeountry
all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that, now and
then, having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began to
think of living and dying among them, I began to regret my having pro-
fessed myself a Papist, and thought it might not be the best religion to
die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from going
to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to leave my efi'eets
behind me; so I resolved at last to go to England, where,if I arrived, I
concluded that I should make some acquaintance, or find some relations,
that would be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I prepared to go to England
with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brazil fleet,
being just going away) resolved to give answers suitable to the just and
faithful account of things I had from thence; and, first, to the Prior of St.
Augustine, I wrote a letter full ofthanks for hisjust dealings, and the ofl'er
of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were undisposed of,
which I desimd might be given, five hundred to the monastery, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the' poor, as the prior should direct; desiring
the good padre's prayers for me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of
thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much
justice and honesty called for : as for sending them any present, they were

far above having any occasion of it. lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknow-
2MW 3031880! 03080].

Mginghisindustryintheimprovmgthephntefiammdhisintegrityh
inmeesing the stock of the works; givinghirninstruotions for-his future
government of myparteooording to the powers I hnd left with my old.
patronfiowhomldesiredhimtosendwhsteverheosmeduetometillhe
should hear from me more particularly; ossminghimthst it was my inten-
tionnotonlytooometo him,huttosett1emyse1fthere fortheremsinder
ofmylife. TothisIsddedsveryhnudsomeprssentofsomeItnlinnsflks
forhiswife mdtwodsughtergfor such the esptsin's son informed me he
hsd;withtmpieoesoffimhgfishhmaddoththehestloouldgetin
Iisbon,fiwpieoesofbhohhsisesndsomel'lsndershoeofagoodvslue.

Having thus settled my efi'sirs, sold my command turnednllmyeffeots
intogoodbfllsdfexchmggmynextdifiionltyweswhiohwsytogoto
England:Ihedbeensocustomedenoughtothesea,andyetIhadsstrnnge
aversiontogotoEnglend bysesetthsttime; and thoughIoould giveno
reason for it, yet the difioulty increased upon me so muohthst though I
had once shipped myhuggageinordertogo,yet1alterodmymind,und
thstnot once, but two orthreetimes.

ItistrueIhsdbeenvayunfortumtehysegandthismightheoneof
the reasons; but let no men slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts
inoasesofsuchmoment:twoofthe_shipswhiohIhadsingledouttogoin,
Imean more particularlysingledoutthsnsny other, having put mythings
on heard one of them, and intheotherheving agreed with-the captain; I
say two ofthese ships miscarried; via. one wss'tsken by the Algerines,
and theotherwusosstawsyon the Start, near'l'orbey,snd sllthe people
drownedexeeptthree; soflmtineitherofthosevesselslhsdheenmsde
miserable.

Havingheen thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I
communicated everything. pressed me earnestly nottogobysegbut either
togebyhndtotheGmynesndcmssovertheBsyofBisosytoBochelle.
fromwhence itwss but an eesynnd safe journeyhylsndtoPsris, snd'so
toOalsis mdDover;mw-go'uptoMsdfid, sndsosllthewsybylsnd
throughFrsuoe. 'hswordlwumprepossessedsgsin'stmygoingbyses
stall,exoeptfiomOuhistoDoverAhstIresolvedtotrsvelell'theMsyhy
land;whioh,ss1m notinhsste,snddidnotvuluethe'ohnrge,w'as by
muchtheplessunter way: sndtomakeit more so,lmy old oaptainbrought
an English gmtlemm, the son of o- merchant in Lisbon, whoweswilling
totrsvel with me; ufterwhiohwepicked up twosome-English merchant:
momndtwoyoungl'ortuguesegentlemen, thelsstgoingtoi'srisonly;so

26" -
that in all, there were six of us, and five servants; the two- merchants and
the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant between two,
to save the charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me
as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be
capable of supplying the place of a servant on the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being very
well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me the
honour to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as because
I had two servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall trouble
you now with none of my land journal; but some adventures that hap-
pened to us in this tedious and difficult journey I must not omit.

WhenwecametoMadrid,we being all ofus strangers to Spain,were
willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and what was worth
observing; but, it being the latter part of the'summer, we hastened away,
and set out from Madrid about the middle of October; but when we came
to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed. at several towns on the way, with
an account that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the moun-
tains, that several travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after
having attempted at an extreme heard to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to me,
that had been always used to a hot climate, and to countries where I could
scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable: nor, indeed, was it
more painful than surprising, to come but ten days before out of Old Castile.
where the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to
feel a wind from the Pyreneen Mountains so very keen, so severely cold, as

to be intolerable, and to endanger benurnbing and polishing of our fingers
and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all
covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or felt
before in his life. To mend the matter, when we came to Pampaluna, it
continued snowing with so much violence and so long, that the people said
winter was come before its time; and the roads, which were difficult before.
were now quite impassable; for, in a word, the snow lay in some places too
thickforustotravel,andbeingnot hardfrozen,asisthe caseinthe
northern countries, there was no going without being in danger of being ,
buried alive every step. We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna;
when (seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better,

3"Ol'mm 633803.

foritwastheseverefiwinterallovsr Europethat had been known" in the
memory of man), I proposed that we should go away to Fontarabia, and
there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage. But,
whileIwasconaider-ingthis,there cameinfouFrenchgenflommwho'.
having been stopped on the French side of the passes, as'we were on the
Spanish, had- found out a guide, who, traversing the country near the head '
of Languedoc, had brought them over the mountains by such ways that
they were not much incommoded with the snow; ibr' where they metwith
snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them
and their horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake
to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the snow, provided we we're
armed sumciently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for. he said, in
these great snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at
the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the ground
being covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for
such creatures as theywereifhewouldinsure us from akind of
wolves, which, we were told, we were in most danger from, especially on the
French side of the mountains. He satisfied us that there was no danger of
that kind' in thaws) thatwe were to go; so we readily agreed to follow
him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some French,
some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to some:
back again. ,
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on the 16th of
November; and,indeed,Iwassurprised, wheminstmdofgoingfim'war'd;
he came directlybaokwithnsonthesameroadthatwecamefromlfadndg'
abouttwentymiles; whmhavingpeuedtworimndmsintcthe
plaincountry,we found ourselves in awann climate againwherethe
countrywaspleasantandnosnowtobes'een; bntonssudden, turning
to his left, he approached the mountains another way; 'sndthough it is
true the hills and precipices looked dreadfuhyet he made so manyfours,
mchmeanderaandlednsbymchwindingwayathatweinsensiblypmed
the height of the mountains without being much encumbered with the
snow; and all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant and finitful provinces
of Languedoc. and Gascony, all green and flourishing, though, indeed, at a
gmatdistancaandwehadsomeroughwaytopassstill. , .
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole
dayandanightsofastthatwecouldnottravel; buthebidusbeeasyywe
should soonbepastitall: mtomdindudthatwebegantodescend
every day, and to come more north than before; and so, depending upon
our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being something
before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and
after them a hear, from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood: two of the
wolves made at the guide, and, had he been far before us, he would have
been devoured before we could have helped him; one of them fastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with such violence, that he
had not time or presence of mind enough to drew his pistol, but hallooed
and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade
him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in
sight of the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! 0
master i " but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the wolf in the head that attacked him.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday ; for, having
been used to such creatures in his country, he had no fear upon him, but
went close up to him and shot him; whereas, any other of us would have
fired at a farther distance, and have perhaps either missed the wolf, or
endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I; and, indeed,
it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we
heard on both sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and the noise
redoubled by the echo of the mountains, appeared to us as if there had been
a prodigious number of them; and perhaps there was not such a few as
that we had no cause of apprehension: however, as Friday had killed this
wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and
fled, without doing him any damage, having happily fastened upon his head,
where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth But the man was
most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him twice, once in the arm, and
the other time a little above his knee; and though he had made some
defence, he was just tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when
Friday came up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all mended
our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very diilicult, would
give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear of the
trees, which blinded us before,vwe saw clearly what had been the case, and
how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not presently

discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.
"8
    
  

But never was a. fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising
er as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave

. 1333:1111 though at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the greatest
giversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does
not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two particular
mums, which generally are the rule of his actions; first, as to men, who
its not his proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, except they

'-?"'.""'fl"7"1<YW"

 

1mm! 52!;le "I'll! 0!)le nmx TB! WOLVE

first 'ettack him, unless he be excessively hungry, which it is probable
might now be the case, the ground being covered with snow), if you do not
meddle with him, he will not meddle with you; but then you must take
care to be very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gou-
tleman; he will not go a step out of his way for a. prince ; nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to look another way and keep going on;

for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he
269
takes it for an affront; but if you throw or toss anything at him, and it
hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as your finger, he thinks
himself abused, and sets all other business aside to pursue his revenge,
and will have. satisfaction in point of honour ;--that is his first quality:
the next is, if he be once atl'ronted, he will never leave you, night or day,
till he has his revenge, but follows at a. good round rate till he overtakes
you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him,
he was helping him off his horse, for the man was both hurt. and frightened,
when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of the wood, and a men-
strous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little
surprised when we saw him; but when 1" riday saw him, it was easy to see
joy and courage in the. fellows countenance: " O, 0, 0 E" says Friday,
three times, pointing to him; " 0 master? you give me to leave, me shaken
in hand with him; me makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: " You fool," says i,
" he. will eat you up."--" Catee me up! eatee me up!" says Friday, twiee
over again; " me eatee him up: me makee you good laugh; you all slay
here, me. show you good laugh." So down he. sits, and gels oll' his boots
in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they
wear, and which he. had in his pocket), gives my other servant his horse,
and with his gun away he llew, swift like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody, lill
Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could understand
him, "Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, " me speakee with you." "'0 fol-
lowed at. a distance, for now being down on the Gascony side of the. moun-
tains, we were. entered a vast forest, where the country was plain and pretty
open, though it had many trees in it scattered here and there. Friday, who
had, as we. say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and took-
up a great. stone, and threw it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
did him no more harm titan if he. had thrown it against a wall; but it
answered Friday's end, for the. rogue was so void of fear that he did it.
purely to make. the bear follow him, and show us some laugh, as he called
it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, he turns about, and
comes after him, taking very long strides, and shuttling on at a strange
late, so as would have put a horse to a middling gallop: away runs Friday,
and take his course as if he ran towards us for help ; so we all resolved to

fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my man; though I was angry at:
270
 

him heartily for bringing the hear back upon us, when he was going about
his own business another way; and especially I was angry that he had
turned the bear upon us, and then ran away; and I called out, "You dog !
is this your making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse, that we
may shoot the creature." He heard me, and cried out, "No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh :" and as the nimble creature
ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden on one side of us,
and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to us to follow;
and doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down
upon the ground, at about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance: the first

 

mun! menu THE BEAR T0 DANCE.

thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelled at it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy.
I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for
my life see anything to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we
all rode near to him. .

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end
of a large branch, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon as the
bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker,--" Hal "
says he to us, "now you see me teachee the bear dance:" so he began

jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
271am: All) mum-can

stood still, and began to look behind him,toseehowheshonldgetbaek-,
then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him
byagreat deal; when seeing him stand still,heealled out to himagain,
as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, "What, you come no
farther? pray you come farther ;" so he left jumping and shaking the tree;
and the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did come a little
farther; then he began jumping again, and the bear stopped again. We
thought now was a good time to knock him in the head, and called to
Friday to stand still, and we should shoot the bear: but he cried out
earnestly, " 0 pray! 0 pray! no shoot, me shoot by and them" he would
have said by-and-by. However, to shorten the story, Friday danced so
much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough, but
still could not imagine what the fellow would do: for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear OE; and we found the hear was too
cunning for that too; for he would not go out far enough to be thrown
down, but clung fast with his great broad claws and feet, so that we could
not imagine what would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at
last. But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for seeing the bear cling
fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any farther.
" Well, well," says Friday, " you no come farther, me go; you no come to
me, me come to you ;" and upon this he went out to the smaller end of the
bough, where it would bend with his weight, and gently let himself down
by it, sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on
his feet, and away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stood still. " Well,"
said I to him. " Friday, what will you do now? Why don't you shoot
him2"--"No shoot," says Friday, " no yet; me shoot now, me no kill;
me stay, give you one more laugh :" and, indeed, so he did; for when the
bear saw his enemy gone, he came back from the bough where he stood,
but did it very cautiously, looking behind him every step, and coming
backward till he got into the body of the tree; then. with the same hinder
and foremost. he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws; and moving
one foot at a time, very leisurely. At this juncture. and just before he
could set his hind foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him.
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the
rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw we were
pleased, by our looks, he began to laugh'very loud. "So we kill bear in
my country," says Friday. " So you kill them I" says I; " why, you have
no guna"--"No," says he, " no gun, but shoot great much long amw.'
273oraomsononuson

Thiswasagooddiversiontous; butwewere stiflinawfldplaoaandour
guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew, the howling of
wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something already, I never
heard anything that filled me with so much horror.

These things and the approach of night, called us ofl', or else, as Friday
would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this '
monstrous creature ofi; which was worth saving , but we had near three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left him, and went forward
on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and
dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures as we heard
afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain country, pressed by
hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of mischief in the
villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a great many of
their sheep and horses, and some people too. We had one dangerous place
to pass, and our guide told us, if there were more wolves in the country we
should find them there ; and this was a small plain surrounded with woods
on every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the village where we
weretolodge. Itwas within half anhourof sunsetwhenweentesedthe
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into the plain: we met with
nothing in the first wood, except that in a little plain within the wood,
which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five greet wolves cross the
road,i'ull speed,one after another," ifthey hadbeanin chase of some
prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us, and were gone out of ,
sight in a few moments. Upon this, our guide, who by the way was but
a faint-hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there
were more wolves a-ooming. We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about -
us; but we saw no more wolves tillwe came through that wood, which was
nearhalf ale'ague,and entered the'plain. As soon as we came intothe
plain, we had occasion enough to look about us: the first object we met
withwasadeadhorse; that is to say,apoor horse which thewolveshad
killed, and atleast a dozen of them at work, we could not say eating him,
but picking his bones rather, for they had eaten- -up all the flesh before.
We did not thinkfit to disturb them attheirfeastnaitherdid theytake

much noticeofus. Mdaywofldhaveletflyatthmbuthcnldnot , "

mferhimbyanymeans;for1foundweweieliketo have morebusiness '
278 .. in
upon our hands than we were aware of. We had not gone half over the
plain, when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a
frightful manner, and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on
directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regrlarly
as an army drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce knew in what
manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was
the only way; so we formed in a moment; but that we might not have too
much interval, I ordered that only every other man should fire, and that
the others, who had not fired, should stand ready to give them a second
volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon us; and then that
those who had fired at first, should not pretend to lead their fusees again,
but stand ready, every one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee
and a pair of pistols each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six
-ellcys, half of us at a time: however, at present we had no necessity;
for upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified
as well with the noise as with the fire. Four of them being shot in the
head, dropped ; several others were wounded, and. went bleeding ofi', as we
could see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not immediately
retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest
creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all the company to
halloo as loud as they could; and I found the notion not altogether mis-
taken; for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about. I then
ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to the
gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us leisure to charge
our pieces again; and that we might lose' no time, we kept going ; but we
had but little more than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves in readiness.
when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left, only that it
was farther onward, the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which made
it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily perceive
that it was the bowling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on a
sudden, we perceived three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind
us, and one in our front. so that we seemed to be surrounded with them:
however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as
fast as we could make our horses go, which, the way being very rough,
was only a good hard trot In this manner, we came in view of the
entrance of a wood, through which we were to pass, at the farther side

of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when coming nearer the
an
  
  

we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the
; entrance- On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
it, noise of 9, gun, and looking that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and
' a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after
him full speed: the horse had the advantage of them; but as we supposed
that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up
with him at last: no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up to the entrance
where the horse came out, we found the carcases of another horse and of
two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no
doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by

lane 01' P335,

 

 

A "01183 PCI'LSUED BY WOLVES.

nim fired off ; but as to the man, his head and the upper part of his body
were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course
to take; but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us
presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hundred
of them. It happened, very much to our advantage, that at the entranoe
into the wood, but a. little way from it, there lay some large timber-trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for
carriage. I drew my little troop in among those trees, and placing our-
' selve in a line behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and
keepinb that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three

fronts, inclos'ing our horses in the centre We did so, and it was well we
275
did; for never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon us
in this place. They came on with a growling kind of noise, and mounted
the piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork, as if they were
only rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was prin-
cipally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men
to fire as before, every other man; and they took their aim so sure that
they killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils, those
behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we thought they
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone ofl', but it was but a
moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two volleys of our
pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or
eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet they came on again. I
was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not my
man Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the greatest dexterity
imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own while we were engaged,
--but, as I said, I called my other man, and giving him a horn of powder,
"' bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a large
Ll'lllIl. He did so, and had but just time to get away, when the wolves
came up to it, and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among
us with the force and fright of the fire: we despatehed these in an instant,
and the rest were so frightened with the light, which the night--for it was
now very near dark--made more terrible, that they drew back a little;
upon which I ordered our last pistols to he fired off in one volley, and after
that we gave a shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied
immediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the
ground, and fell to cutting them with our swords, which answered our
expectation, for the crying and howling they made was better understood
by their" fellows ; so that they all tied and left us.

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them, and had it been
daylight we had killed many more. The field of battle being thus
cleared, we made forward again, for we had still near a league to go. We
heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods aswe went several
times, and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them; but the snow

dazzling our eyes, we were not certain. In about an hour more we came
276THE FIGHT WITH THE W014?"

to the town where we were to lodge, which we found in a. terrible fright
and all in arms; for, it seems. the night before, the wolves and some beers
had broke into the village, and put them in such terror, that they were
obliged to keep guard night and day, but especially in the night, to preserve
their cattle, and indeed their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so much
with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no farther; so we
were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Toulouse, where we found
awarm climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor
anything like them; but when we told our story at Toulouse, they told us
it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but they inquired
much what kind of guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that
way in such a severe season, and told us it was surprising we were not all
devoured. When we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and. told us it was fifty to one but
we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight of the horses which made the
wolves so furiOus, seeing their prey, and that at other times they are really
afraid of a guru--but being excessively hungry, and raging on that account,

the eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of danger;--
277
and that if we had not by the continued fire, and at last by the etratagem
of the train of powder, mastered them, it had been great odds but that We
had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been content to have sat still on
horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses so
much for their own, when men were on their links, as otherwise; and,
withal, they told us that at last, if we had stood altogether, and lefi our
horses, they would have been so eager to have devOured them, that we
might have come off safe, especially having our firearms in our hands,
being so many in number. For my part, I was never so sensible of danger
in my life,--for, seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and
open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to,
I gave myself over for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to
cross those mountains again; I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
fiance--nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with

' much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to Paris, and
without any considerable stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover the
14th of January, after having had a severe cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had- in a-little time
all mynew-discovered estate safe about me, the bills of exchange which I
brought with me having been very currently paid. _

My principal guide and privy--counsellor was my good ancient widow,
who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no pains too much
nor care too great to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely with
everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my efl'ects; and,
indeed, I was very happy from the beginning, and. now to the end, in the
unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.

And now, having resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils,
I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who having ofl'ered it to the two mer-
chants, the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepwd
the ofi'er, and remitted thirty--three thousand pieces-of-eight to a correspon-
dent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent
from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent me the bills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces-of--eight for the estate, reserving
the payment of one hundred moidores a year to him (the old man) during
his life, andfifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I had

273
promised thmmd'whioh the plantation was to make good as amt-charge.
AndthusIhavegiventbefirst part ofa life offortuneand adventure,--
a life of Providenoe's oheqnenwork, and of a variety which the world will
seldom be able to show the like of ;--beginning foolishly, but closing much
more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.

Any one would think that in this state of oomplioabd good fortune, I
was past running anymore hazards,--and so,indeed, I had been,if other
circumstances had concurred; but I was inured to a wandering life, had
no family, nor my relations; nor, however rich, had I contracted fresh
acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could
not keep that countryout of myhead,andhad a great mind to be upon
the wing again; especially I could not resist the strong inclination I had
to see myislmdandtoknowifthe poor Spaniards were in being there.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far pre-
vailed with me, that for almost seven years she prevented my running
abroad, during which time 1. tool: my two nephews, the children of one of
my brothers, into mycare; the eldest, having somethingofhis own, I bred
up as a gentlemen, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate
after my decease. The other Iplaced with the captain ofa ship; and after
iive years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him
into a good ship, and sent him to sea; and this young fellow alter-wards
drew me in, as old as I was, to further adventures myself!

Inthe meantime, Iiupsrt settledmyselfhere; for,flrstof all,Imarried,
and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had three
children-two sons and one daughter; but my wife dying. and my nephew'
coming home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
goabmad, andhisimportunity, prevailed, andengagedmetogoinhis-ship
asaprivatetradertotheEastIndies;thiswasintheyear1694. :

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island--saw my sueeea
sore the Spaniards--had the whole story of their lives, and of the villains
I left there--how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards--how they after-
wards agreed, Wanited, separated and how at last the Spaniards
were obliged to use violence with them--how they were subjected to the'
Spaniards--how honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were
entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part,--
partieularly, also, as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several.
times upon the island, and as to the improvement they made upon the island
itself--and how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and

279
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at my
coming, I found about twenty young children on the island

Here I stayed about twenty days,--left them supplies of all necessary
things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two
workmen, which I had brought from England with me,--viz. a carpenter
and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, reserved to myselr
the property of the whole, but gave them such parts respectively as they
agreed on; and having settled all things with them, and engaged them not
to leave the place, I left them there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a bark, which
I bought there, with more people to the island; and in it, besides other
supplies,,I sent seven women, being such as I found proper for service, or
for wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen, I promised-
to send them some women from England, with a good cargo of neces-
saries, if they would apply themselves to planting--which I afterwards
could not perform The fellows proved very honest and diligent after they
were mastered, and had their properties set 2pm for them. I sent them,
also, from the Brazils, five cows, three of them being big with calf, some
sheep, and some hogs, which when I came again were considerably increased.

But all these things, with an account how three hundred Caribbees came
and invaded them, and mined their plantations, and how they fought with
that whole number twice, and were at first defeated, and one of them killed;
but, at last, a storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished or
destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession of
their plantation, and still lived upon the island.

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some new
adventures of my own, for ten years more, I shall give a farther account
of in the Second Part of my Story.PART '11. ' '

 

Tmhomely pmverb,usedonsomanyoooasionsinEngland,via"That
what is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh," was never more
verified than in the story of my Life. Any one would think that after
thirty-five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstancea which
few men, if any, ever went through before, and alter near seven years of
peace and enjoyment inthe fulness of allthinge; grown old. and whengif
ever,itmightbeallowedmetohavehadexperienoeof everystafe of
middlelife,andtoknowwhiohwasmostadaphdtomskeamoom--
p1etelyhappy;Isay, afterallthiganyonewouldhavethoughtthatthe
native pmpenaity.toramhling,whiehIgaveanaooountoPS inmyfirst
setting out in the world to have been so 'pmdominant in my thoughts.'
should be worn out, and I might, at sixty-one years ofagahavebeena
little inclined to stay at home, and have done venturinglife and fiertnne
anymore.

Nay, firtherfiheoommon motiveol' foreign adventmeswastakenaway
inmaforlhadnofioztunetomske; Ihadnnthingtoseekziflhad
gainedten-thousandpoundalhadheennoflcher;for1hnd alreadysnt-
ficient fior maandforthoeelhadtoleaveittonnd whatIhsdwas'
visiblyinoreasing; for, having no gmatfamily. Ioonldnotspend-the income
ofwhatIhedunlustouldsetupformupensivewayoffivingeuoh
asagreatfamfly,servants,equipage,gaiety,andthelike,whiohwmdfinge
Ihadnonofiouofiorinolinationto;'sothatIhadnothing,indeed,todo
buttositsfinmdfunyenjoywhatlhadgotandseeitinmeasedaily
uponmyhanda Yetallthesethingshadnoeifeotnponmqoratleastnot
enoughtoresist thestronginclinationlhadtogoahmadsgaimwhich'hung
about me like a chronioal distemper. In particular, the we ofseeingr-
my new plantationintlmislandendtheoolonyllefitheraraninmyu-
headoonfinually. Idmamdofitfllnightandmyimaginationm'upom
itallday: it'was uppermostinallmy'thoughu; andmyfamyworb'sdvpovfi

as:
steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep; in short,
nothing could remove it out of my mind: it even broke so violently into
all my discourses that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could talk of
nothing else; all my discourse ran into it, even to impertinence; and I saw
it myself.

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the stir that
people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is owing to the
strength of imagination, and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds;
that there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking; that
people's poring affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased
friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of fxmcying, upon some
extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk to them, and are
answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapour
in the thing, and they really know nothing of the matter.

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such things
as real apparitions, spectrcs, or walking of people after they are dead; or
whether there is anything in the stories they tell us of that kind more than
the product of vapours, sick minds, and wondering fancies: but this I
know, that my imagination worked up to such a height, and brought me
into such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that I actually sup-
posed myself often upon the spot, at my old castle, behind the trees; saw
my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprohatc sailors I left upon the
island ; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked at them steadily, though
I was'broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this I did till I often
hightened myself with the images my fancy represented to me. One time,
in my sleep, I had the villany of the three pirate sailors so lively related to
me by the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising: they
told me how they harbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and
that they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to distress
and starve them ; things that I had never heard of, and that, indeed, were
never all of them true in fact : but it was so warm in my imagination, and so
realized to me, that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but
that it was or would be true: also how I resented it, when the Spaniard
complained to me; and how I brought them to justice, tried them, and
ordered them all three to be hanged. What there was really in this shall
be seen in its place: for however I came to form such things in my dream,
and what secret converse of spirits injected>> it, yet there was, I say, much

of it true. I own that this dream had nothing in it literally and specifically
as:UIICSOWS Wl'fi WILL FM BK A NIXDRANCI 1'0 HI>>.

true; but the general part was so tme,--the base, villanous behaviour 01
time three hardened rogues was such, and had been so much worse than
all I can describe, that the dream had too much similitude of the fact ; and
as I would afterwards have punished them severely, so, if I had hanged
them all, I had been much in the right, and even should have been justified
both by the laws of God and man.

But to return to my story: In this kind of temper I lived some
yam; I had 'no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable
diversion, but what had something or other of this in it; so that my wife,

who saw my mind wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night,
283RUIHXSUN CllUSUl-I.

that she believed there was some secret, powerful impulse of Providence
upon me, which had determined me to go thither again ; and that she found
nothing hindered my going. but my heing engaged to a wife and children.
She told me. that it was true she could not think of parting with me: but
as she was assured that if she was dead it would be the first thing I would
do ; so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined above, she would
not he the only obstruction; for, if I thought fit and resolved to go
[llere she found me very intent upon her words, and that I looked very
earnestly at her, so that it a little disordered her, and she stopped. I asked
her why she did not go on, and say out what she was going to say? But I
perceived that her heart was too full, and some tears stood in her eyes]
"Speak out, my dear," said I; "are you willing I should go?"---"No,"
:ays she, very all'eetionately, " I am far from willing; but if you are resolved
"0 go," says she, " rather than I would he the only hindrance, I will go with
you : for though 1 think it a most preposterous thing for one of your years,
and in your condition, yet, if it must he," said she, again weeping, " I would
not leave you ; for, if it he of l-Ieaven, you must do it; there is no resisting
it; and if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will also make it mine to go
with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it"

This affectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little out of the
vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing; I corrected my wan-
dering fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately what business I
had after tln-eescore years, and after such a life of tedious sulferings and
disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner,--I say, what business
had I to rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for
youth and poverty to run into?

\Vith those thoughts I considered my new engagement: that I had a
wife, one child horn, and my wife then great with child of another ; that I had
all the world could give me, and had no need to seek hazard for gain ; that I
was declining in years, and ought to think rather of leaving what I had gained
than of seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had said of its
being an impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had
no notion of that; so, after many of these cogitations, I struggled with the
power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people
may always do in like cases if they will. In a word, I conquered it; com-
posed myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts, and which
my present condition furnished me plentifully with; and particularly, as

the most efl'ectual method. I resolved to divert myself with other things,
234CRUSOE IS DISCONSOLATE FOR HIS WIFE'S DEA'I'IL

and to engage in some business that might efl'ectually tie me up from any
more excursions of this kind; for I found that thing return upon me chiefly
when I was idle, and had nothing to do, nor anything of moment im~
mediately before me. To this purpose, I bought a little farm in the county of
Bedforcl, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient
house upon it, and the land about it, I found, was capable of great im-
provement; and it was many ways suited to my inclination, which de-
ighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of land; and
particularly, being an inland country, I was removed from conversing among
sailors and things relating to the remote parts of the world. I went down
to my farm, settled my family, bought ploughs, barrows, a cart, Waggon-

horses, cows, and sheep, and, setting seriously to work, became in one half-
235
year a mere country gentleman. My thoughts were entirely taken up in
managing my servants, cultivating the ground, enclosing, planting. &a; and
I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that nature was capable of
directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes was capable of retreat-
ing to.

I farmed upon my own land; I had no rent to pay, was limited by no
articles 3 I could pull up or cut down as I pleased; what I planted was for
myself, and what I improved was for my family; and having thus left ofi'
the thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any part of
life as to this world. Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle state
of life which my father so earnestly recommended to me, and lived a kind
of heavenly life, something like what is described bv the poet, noon the
subject of a country life :--

"F'ree from vices, tree from ears,
Agehumpdmandyouthnonm" _

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen Providence
unhinged me at once ; and not only made a breach upon me inevitable and
incurable, but drove me, by its consequences, into a deep relapse of the
wandering disposition, which, as I may say, being born in my very blood,
soon recovered its hold of me; and, like the returns of a violent distemper,
came on with an irresistible force upon me. This blow was the loss of my
wife. It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, give a
character of her particular virtues, and make my court to the sex by the
flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my
afl'airs; the centre of all my enterprises; the engine that, by her prudence,
reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous project that filled my head, and did more to guide my rambling
genius than a mother's team, a father's instructions, a friend's counsel,
or all my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening to her,
and in being moved by her entreaties; and to the last degree desolate and
dislocated in the world by the loss of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. I was as
much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils, when I first
went on shore there; and as much alone, except for the assistance of ser-
vants, as I was in my island. I knew neitherwhattothinknorwhatto
do. I saw the world busy around me : one part labouring for bread, another
part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures but equally miserable
because the end they proposed still fled from them ; for the men of pleasure

ass
every day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and
repentance; and the men of labour spent their strength in daily struggling
for bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured with: so living in a
daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and working but to live, as
if daily bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a wean'some life the
only occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island;
where I suffered no more com to grow, because I did not want it; and bred
no more goats, because I had no more use for them ; where the money lay

 

CRUBOR CAN THINK OF FOTHH'O BUT THE mum

in the drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the favour to he looked
upon in twenty years. All these things, had I improved them as I ought
to have done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have
taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity ; and
that there was something which certainly was the reason and end of life,
superior to all these things, and which was either to he possessed, or at

least hoped for, on this side of the grave.
287
But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a pilot,
that could only run afore the wind. My thoughts ran all away again into
the old affair; my head was quite turned with the whimseys of foreign
adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of my farm, my
garden, my cattle, and my family, which before entirely possessed me, were
nothing to me, had no relish, and were like music to one that has no ear, or
food to one that has no taste. In a word, I resolved to leave oil' house-
keeping, let my form, and return to London; and in a few months after
I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I had
no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but to saunter
about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is perfectly useless in
God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter to the rest of his kind
whether he be dead or alive. This also was the thing which, of all circum-
stances of life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used
to an active life; and I would often say to myself, "A state of idleness is
the very drags of life ;" and, indeed, I thought I was much more suitably
employed when I was twenty-six days making a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, whom, as
I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and had made him
commander of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being
the first he had made. He came to me, and told me that some merchants
of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to
the East Indies, and to China, as private traders. " And now, uncle," says
he, " if you will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your
old habitation in the island; for we are to touch at the Brazils."

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state. and of the
existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second causes with
the ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not
communicated to any in the world.

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was
returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his thought to
say, when that very morning, before he came to me, I had, in a great deal
of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circumstances in
my mind, come to this resolution, that I would go to Lisbon, and consult
with my old sea-captain; and if it was rational and practicable, I would go
and see the island again, and what was become of my people there. I had
pleased myself with the thoughts of peopling the place, and. carryingr

assCRUSOfI lll'lllw OIFKM TO TAKE II"! 10 'l'lll'. ISLAND

inhahitunts from hence, getting a patent for the possession, and I know not
what; when, in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I have
said, with his project of carrying me thither in his way to the East Indies.
I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him, " What
devil," said I, " sent you on this unlucky errand? " My nephew stared as
if he had been frightened at fllst ; but perceiving that I was not much dis-
pleased with the proposal, he recovered himself. "I hope it may not be
:111 unlucky proposal, sir," says he, "I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more felicity than
most of your brother monarchs in the world." In a. word, the scheme hit
so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the prepossession I was under,

and of which I have said so much, that I told him, in a few words, if be
289 u
agreed with the merchants, I would go with him; but I told him I would
not promise to go any finther than my own island. " Why, sir," says he, "you
don't want to be left there again, I hope 'l " "But," said I, " can you not
take me up again on your return?" He told me it would not be possible
to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to come that way with
a laden ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his way, and
might be three or four. " Bem'deB, air, if I should miscarry,' said he, " and
not return at all, then you would be just reduced to the condition you

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it; which
was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which being taken in pieces,
might, by the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to carry with us,
be setup againintheisland, and finished fitto gotoseeinafewdays. I
was not long resolving; for, indeed, the importunities of my nephew joined
so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could oppose me; on the
other hand, my wife being dead, none concerned themselves so much for me
as to persuade me to one way or the other, except my ancient good friend
the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy
circumstances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage; and above all,
my young children. But it was all to_no purpose: I had an irresistible
desire for the voyage; and I told her I thought there was something so
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind, that it would be a kind
of resisting Providence if I should attempt to stay at home; after which
she ceased her expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making
provision for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my
absence, and providing for the education of my children. In order to do
this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in such a manner for my
children, and placed in such hands, that I was perfectly easy and satisfied
they would have justice done them, whatever might befiell me; and for
their education, I left it wholly to the widow, with a sufiicient maintenance
to herself for her care: all which she richly deserved; for no mother could
have taken more care in their education, or understood it better: and as she
lived till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January, 1694--5 ;
and I, with my man Friday, went on board, in the Downs, the 8th; having,
besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of
all kinds of necessary things for my colony; which, if _I did not find in"

good condition, I resolved to leave so.
290WW1? 0811808;

First, Icarried with me some servants whom Ipurposedto plat-ether! '
as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my account, while I
stayed, and either to leave them there or carrythem forward, as they should
appear willing. partimflarly I carried two carpenters, a smith, and every
handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a general
mechanic; for he was dexterous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind
corn, was agood turner, andagoodpot-maker; he alsomadeanythingthat
wasproper'romakeofearthorai'wood: inaword,weoalledhimour'
Jack-of--all-trades. With these I carried a. tailor, who had ofl'ered himself
to go a passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards
consented to stay on our new plantation, and who proved a. mostnecessary
handy fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides that
of his trade , for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms as for all
cmployments.

Mycargo, asnearas I can recollect, for Ihavenotkeptaecount of the
particulars, consisted of a suficient quantity of linen, and some English
thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to findthere; and
enough of them, as by my calculation, might wmfortably supply them for
seven years: if I remember right, the materials I carried for'clothing them, I
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as they could want >
for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds, including some beds,
bedding, and household stufi', particularly kitchen utensils, with pots,
kettles, pewter, brass, &c. ; and near a. hundred pounds more in iron-work, .
nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing
I could think of.

Icarriedalsoahnndred spare mmuskets, and fusees; besides some
pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of
lead, and two piews of brass cannon; and, because I knew not what time
and what extremities I was providing for, I carried a hundred bmels of
powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and
halberts. In shortwe had a large magazine ofall sortsofstores; andI
mademynephew carrytwo small quarter-deckgunsmore than he wanted
for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion; so that when we came.
there, we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies.-
Indeed, I at first thought there would he need enough feral], and much .
more,if we hopedto maintain our possession of the island; as shall be -
seen in the course of that story. -

Ihadnotsuchbedluckinthisvoyageaslhadbeenusedtomeet
2'91 ,
with; and, therefore, shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader,
who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters went with my colony ;
yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather, happened on this
first setting out, which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first;
and I, who had never made but one voyage, my first voyage to Guinea, in
which I might be said to come back again, as the voyage was at first
designed, began to think the same ill fate attended me; and that I was
born to he never contented with being on shore, and yet to be always
unfortiuiate at sea. Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we
were obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two-and-twenty days: but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that
provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so that
while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but rather added to
them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and two cows with their
calves, which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my
island; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very fair
gale of wind for some days As I remember, it might be about the 20th of
February in the evening late, when the mate, having the watch, came into
the round-house, and told us he saw a. flash of fire, and heard a gun fired;
and while he was telling us of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain
heard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-deck, where for
- a while we heard nothing; but in a few minutes we saw a very great light,
and found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance; immediately
we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could
be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for five hundred
leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this, we concluded it must be
some ship on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the noise of guns just
before, we concluded that it could not be far ofi; we stood directly towards
it, and were presently satisfied we should discover it, because the further we
sailed, the greater the light appeared; though the weather being hazy, we
could not perceive anything but the light for a while In about half an
hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the
weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a great
ship on fire in the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it: I presently reeollected my
former circumstances, and what condition I was in when taken up by the

292
Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to- that ship must be, if they had no other ship
in compmy with them. Upon this, I immediately ordered that five guns
should be fired, one soon after another, that, if possible, we might give
notice to them that there was help for them at hand, and that they might
endeavour to save themselves in their boat ; for though we could see the
flames of the ship, yet they,'it being night, could see nothing of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove,
waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our great terror, though we had
reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and in a few minutes all
thefirewas out, thatistosay,therestof theshipsunk. Thiswass
terrible, and indeed an afiicting sight, for the sake of the poor men, who,
I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost
distress in their boat, in the middle of the ocean; which, at present, as it
was dark, I could not see. However, to direct them as well as I could, I
caused lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship where we could,
and which we had lanterns for, and kept firing guns all the night long:
letting them know by this that there was a ship not far ofl'. '

About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's hosts by
the help of our perspective glasses, and found there were two of them, both
througed with people, and deep in the water. We pereeived'they rowed,
the wind being against them ; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost
to make us see them. We immediately spread our ancient, to let them
know we saw them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on
board, and then made more sail, standing directly to them. - In little more
than half an hour, we came up with them; and, took themall in, being no
less than sixty-four men, women, and children ; for there were a great many
passengers.

Upon inquiry, we found it was a French merchant ship of threehundred
tons, home-bound from Quebec. The master gave us a long account of the
distress of his ship: howthe fimbeganinthesteemgebythenegligenee
of the steersman; which, on his crying out for help, was, as everybody
thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the first
firehsdgot into some'part of the ship so difficult to come at that they
could not effectually quench it; and afterwards getting in between. the
timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold-and
mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

Theyhad no moreto do then buttogetintotheirboate-which, tar-their '
298 _
great comfort, were pretty large ; being their long-boat, and a great shallup,
besides a small skill} which was of no great service to themtother than in
get some, fresh wale ' and provisions into her, after they had secured their
lives from the lire. They had, indeed, small hopes of their lives by gelting into
these heals at that distance from any land; only, as they said, that they
lhus escaped from the fire, and there was a possibility that some ship might
happen to he at sea. aml might take them in. They 'had sails, cars, and a
compass; and had as much provision and water as, with sparing it so as to
he. next door to starving, might support them about twelve days, in which,
if they had no bad weather and no contrary winds, the captain said he
hoped he might gel. to the. Banks of Newlhundland, and might perhaps
lake some. lish. lo suslaiu them till lhey might go on shore. hit there were
so many <<ham-es against them in all these cases, such as storms, to oversel'.
and founder them; rains and cold. to lll'llllllll) and perish their limbs;
eoulrary winds, to keep lhem out and starve them ; that it must have been
uexl lo mirzu'nlous if they had escaped.

In the midst of their consternation, every one being hopeless and ready
lo despair. the captain. with tears in his eyes, told me they were on a sudden
surprised with the. joy of hearing a gun lire, and alter that four more: these
were the. live guns whieh I caused to be. tired at first seeing the light. This
revived their hearts, and gave them the notice, which, as above, I desired it
should, that lhem was a ship at hand for their help. It was upon the
hearing of these guns lhal. they took down their masts and sails : the sound
running from the wimlwan'd, they resolved to he. by till morning. Some
time after this. hearing no more. guns, they lired three. )nuskets, one. a con--
siderable while alter another; but these, the wind being contrary, we never
heard. Some time alter that again, they were still more. :greeably surprised
with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns which, as I have said, I caused
to he fired all lhe. rest of the. night. This set them to work with their oars,
to keep their boats ahead, at least, that we might the sooner come up with
them ; and, at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me. to express the several gestures, the strange
ecstasies. the variety of postures, which these poor delivered people run
into. to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance. Grief
and fear are. easily described : sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions
of the. head and hands, make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of
joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it. There were some
in tears ; some. raging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the

294
TI"! CREW IS SAVED FROM THE BURNING SIILR

greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark raving and downright lunatic; some
ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their hands; some
were dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying, many quite dumb,
not able to speak a word,- others sick and vomitii g; several swooning and
ready to faint; and a few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them either ,- there might be many that were thank-
295
ful afterwards; but the passion was too strong for them at first, and they
were not able to master it: they were thrown into ecstacies, and a kind of
frenzy, and it was but a very few that were composed and serious in their
joy. Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from the particular
circumstance of that nation they belonged to: I mean the French, whose
temper is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than in other nations. I am not philosopher
enough to determine the cause; but nothing I had ever seen before came up
to it The ecstasies poor hiday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found
his father in the boat, came the nearest to it ; and the surprise of the master
and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains that set them
on shore in the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing was to
compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else in my life.

It is further observable, that these extravagances did not show themselves
in that different manner I have mentioned, in different persons only; but
all the variety would appear, in a short succession of moments, in one and
the same person A man that we saw this minute dumb, and, as it
were, stupid and confounded, would the next minute be dancing and balloo-
ing like an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or pulling his
clothes to pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a. madman; in a
few moments after that we would have him all in tears, then sick, swooning,
and, had not immediate help been had, he would in a few moments have
been dead. Thus it was, not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with
the greatest part of them; and, if I remember right, our surgeon was
obliged to let blood of about thirty persons.

There were two priests among them: one an old man, and the other a
young man; and that which was strangest was, the oldest man was the
worst. As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe,
he dropped down stone dead to all appearance Not the least sign of life
could be perceived in him ; our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies
to reccver him, and was the only man in the ship that believed he was not
dead. At length he opened a vein in his am, having first chafed and
rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as possible Upon this, the
blood, which only dropped at first, flowing freely, in three minutes after the
man opened his eyes; a quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better,
and after the blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly
well, and took a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him. About a

quarter of an hour after this, they came running into the cabin to the
ant
surgeon, who was bleeding a fiench woman that had fainted, and told him
the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the
change of his circumstances in his mind, and a'geinthisputhimintoan
ecstasy of joy. His spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could
convey them, the blood grew hot and feverish; and the man was as fit for
Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it. The surgeon would not bleed
him again in that condition, but gave him something to doze and put him
to sleep; which, after some time, operated upon him, and he awoke next
morning perfectly composed and well. The younger priest behaved with
great command of his passions, and was really an example of a serious,
well-governed mind. At his first coming on board the ship, he threw him-
self flat on his face, prostrating himself in thankfulness forhis deliverance,
in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really thinking he
had been in a swoon; but he spoke calmly, thanked me, told me he was
giving God thanks for his deliverance, begged me to leave him a few
moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give me thanks also. I
was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only lefl; him, but kept
others from interrupting him also. He continued in that posture about
three minutes, or little more, after I lefi him, then came to me, as he had
said he would, and, with a great deal of seriousness and afi'ection, but with
tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God, given him and so many
miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no need to tellhimto
thank God for it, rather than me, for I had seen that he had done that
already; but I added that it was nothing but what reason and humanity
dictated to all men, and that we had as muchreason as he to givethanksto
God,whohadblessedussofarastomakeustheinstrumentsofhismercy
foso many of his creatures Afier this, the young priest applied himself
to his countrymen, and laboured to compose them : hspersuaded, entreated,
argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them within the'
exercise of their reason; and with some he had success, though others were
for a time out of all government of themselves.

I cannot help committing this to writing. as perhaps it may be useful to
those into whose hands it may fall, for guiding themselves in the extravas
sauces oftheirpassione; forifanexoess of joy can cerrymenouttosuch .
a length beyond the reach of their reason, what will not the extravagances
of anger, rageandaprovokedmind, can'yustoi And,indeed, here'IsaW'
lesson for keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as
well than of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and an'ger.

297 '
We were somewhat disordered by these extravagances among our new
guests, for the first day ; but after they had retired to lodgings provided for
them as well as our ship would allow, and had slept heartily--as most of
them did, being fatigued and frightened--they. were quite another sort of
people the next day. Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowbdgments
for the kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known, are
naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me and my
nephew; the commander began to consult with us what should be done
with them; and, first, they told us we had saved their lives, so all they had
was little enough for a return to us for that kindness received. The captain
said they had saved some money and some things of value in their boats,
caught hastily out of the flames, and if we would accept it, they were
ordered to make an offer of it all to us ; they only desired to be set on shore
somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to
France. My nephew wished to accept their money at first word, and to
consider what to do with them afterwards; but I overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange country; and
if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me so, and
taken all I had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as
much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary, the mere being sold
to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese is not a much better
master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, much worse.

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in their
distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-
creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the like or
any other extremity; that we had done nothing for them but what we
believed they would have done for us, if we had been in their case, and
they in ours; but that we took them up to save them, not to plunder them;
and it would be a most barbarous thing to take that little from them which
they had saved out of the fire, and then set them on shore' and leave them;
that this would be first to save them from death, and then kill them our'
selves; save them from drowning, and abandon them to starving; and,
therefore, I would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to setting
them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceeding difiiculty to us, -
for that the ship was bound to the East Indies; and though we were driven
out of our course to the westward a very great way, and perhaps were

directed by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible
ass
torus wilfullytochangeourvoyageontheirparlioular woount; noreould
my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, with whomhe was under
charter to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil; and all I knewwe could do
for them was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward bound from the West Indies, and get them a passage, if possible,
to England or France.

Thefirstpmd theproposal wassogenerous andkind, theycould not
but be very thankful for it; but they were in very great consternation,
especially the passengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East
Indies; theythenentreatedmathat as Iwas driven so far to the westward
before I met with them, I would, at least, keep on the same course to the
Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet with some
shiporsloopthattheymighthiietocanythembacktoCanada. .

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and therefore
I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed. I considered that to carry this whole
company to the Eat Indies would not only be an intolerable severity upon
the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all
our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an
unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one
could say we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would have
forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of people in such a
distressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting our-
selves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their deliverance.' So I cemented that we would carry them to .
Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit ; and if not, that I would
carry them to Martinico, 1n the West Indies
- The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and
as the winds had continued in the points" between NE. and SE. a long
time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to France; for
we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two were French, from
St. Christopher's, but they had been so long beating up againstthe wind
that they durst take mnopassengers, ficrfear of wantingprovisionsforthe
voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should take in; so we were
obligedtogoon. Itwasaboutaweek after this thatwe madetheBanke
of Newfoundland; where, to shorten my story, we put all' our French people
on boardabark, which they hiredatseatheratoputthem on shamand
afierwards to carry them to France, if they could get provisions to victua!'
themselves with When I say all the French went-on shoraffIshculd
remember, that the young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the
East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the
coast of Commandel; which I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked
the man, and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of
the seamen entered themselves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering away
S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind
at all; when we met with another subject for our humanity to work upon,
almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, on the 19th day of
March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course SE. and by S. We soon
perceived it was a. large vessel, and that she bore up to us, but could not at
first know what to make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found
she had lost her maintopmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she
fired a gun as a signal of distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at
N.N.W. a fresh gale, and we soon came to speak with her. We found her
a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, but had been blown out of
the road at Barbadoes a few days before she was ready to sail, by a
terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief mate were both gone on
shore; so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent
case for good mariners to bring the ship home. They had been already nine
weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the west-
ward, and in which they lost their masts. They told us they expected to
have seen the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to the
south-east, by a strong gale of wind at N.N.W., the same that blew now :
and having no sails to work the ship with but a main course, and a kind of
square sail upon a jury foremast, which they had set up, they could not
lie near. the wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved for
want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone: their bread
and flesh were quite gone--they had not one ounce left in the ship, and had
had none for eleven days. The only relief they had was, their water was
not all spent, and they had about half a barrel of flour left; they had sugar
enough ; some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at first, but these were all
devoured ; and they had seven casks of rum. There was a youth, and his
mother, and a maid-servant on board, who were passengers, and thinking

the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the
, soc
hurricane began; and having no provisions of their own leit, they were in
a more deplorable condition than the rest : for the semen, being reduced to
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may be sure, .
for the poor passengers; and they were, indeed, in such a condition that
theirmiseryisveryhardtodescribe.

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curieflty had not led me
(the weather being fair, and the wind abated) to go on board the ship. The
second mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had been on
board our ship, and he told me, they had three passengers in the great cabin,
that were in a deplorable condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two days: and I was
afraid to inquire after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve them
with." We immediately applied- ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so tar overruled things with my nephew,
that I would have viotualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia,
or any other part of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but
there was no necessity for that. V

But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid of eating too
much, even of that little we gave them. The mate, or commander, brought
six men with him in his boat; but these poor wretohes looked like skeletons,
and were so weak that they could hardly sit to their oars. The materhim-
self was very ill, and half-starved; for he declared he had reserved nothing
from the men, and went share and share alike with them in every bit they
ate I cautioned him to eat sparingly, and set meat before him immediately,-
but he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick and out 0!
order; so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up something with
some broth, which he said would be to him both food and physio; and sitar
he had taken it he grew better. In the mean time I forgot not the men.
I ordered victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather devoured
than ate it: they waresoexceedingly hungry that they were in a manner
ravenous, and had no command of themselves; and two of them ate with
so much greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning. The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and .
brought to mind what I had a terrible-prospect of at my first coming on
shore in my island, where I had not the least mouthihl of food, or any
prospect of procuring any; besides the hourly apprehensions I had ofbeing ' '
madothe foodof other creatures. But allthe while the mate-wasthus'
relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's ccmpany,=I eouldnot

m ' .
put out of my thought the story he had told me of the three poor creatures
in the great cabin, viz. the mother, her son, and the maid-servant, whom he
had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom, he seemed to confess,
they had wholly neglected, their own extremities being so great; by which
I understood, that they had really given them no food at all, and that
therefore they must be perished, and be all lying dead, perhaps, on the floor
or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and,
with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack of bread, and four or
five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat
to be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room, to
prevent the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very little at a time: and
by this caution be preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to save
their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin, and see
what condition the poor passengers were in; and if they were alive, to
comfort them, and give them what refreshment was proper: and the
surgeon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which
he had given the mate that was on board, and which he did not question
would restore them gradually. I was not satisfied with this: but, as I said
above, having a great mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the
ship itself would present me with, in a more lively manner than I could
have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the victuals
out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed his orders, and
kept a good guard at the cook-room door, and the man he placed there,
after using,r all possible persuasion to have patience, kept them off by force;
however, be caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened
with the liquor of the meat, which they called brewis, and gave them every
one some, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety
that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But it was all in
vain ; and had I not come on board, and their own commander and officers

with me, and with good words, andsome threats also of giving them no
302
more, I believethey would have broken into the cook-room by force, and
tom the meat out of the furnace--for words are indeed of very small force
to a hungry belly; however, we pacified them, and fed them gradually and
cautiously at first, and the next time gave them more, and at last filled
their bellies, and the men did well enough. '

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest; for as, first, the ship's company had so
little for themselves. it was but too true that they had at first kept them
very low, and at last totally neglected them: so that for six or seven days
it might be said they had really no food at all, and for several days before '
very little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported. was a woman of
senseand good breeding,hadspared allshecould soafi'ectionatelyfiorher
son, that at last she entirely sank under it ; and when the mate of our ship
went in, she set upon the floor or deck, with her back up against the sides,
between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her
shoulders like a corpse, though not quite deed. My mate said all hecould
to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her
mouth. She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak:
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating that it
was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have said they
should take care of him. However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
at the eight, endeavoured to get some of the broth into her mouth, and,
as he said, got two or three spoonfuls down--though I question whether
he could be sure of it or not: but it was too late, and she died the
same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most afi'eetionate
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed, as one
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He had a. piece of an old
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it; however, being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got something down
his throat, and he began sensibly to revive; though by giving him, some
time after, but two or three spoonfuls extraordinarv, he was very sick, and
brought it up again A ' '

Butthe next care was the poor maid: sne lay all along upon the-deck, -
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fiallen down in a fitof
apOplexy, and struggled for life. Heriimbs were distomd; one of hes?
hands was clasped round the frame of the chair, and she gripped it so hard -
iJm'ive couldnoteasilymake herletitgo; herothergrmlayoverhea!>> _,

soc .
head, and her feet lay both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin
table: in short, she lay just like one in the agonies of death, and yet she
was alive too. The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and
terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days
before, and whom she loved most tenderly. We knew not what to do with
this poor girl; for when our surgeon, who was a man of very great know-
ledge and experience, had, with great application, recovered her as to life,
he had her upon his hands still; for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time alter.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to consider.
that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country, where sometimes
people stay a week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was to relieve
this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for them; and though they were
willing to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could carry no
sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts. However, as their captain
begged of us to help him to set up a main-topmost, and a kind of a top-
most to his jury-foremast, we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four
days; and then, having given him five barrels of beef, 9. barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other things
we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some
pieces-of-eight from them for satisfaction, we left them, taking on board
with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all
their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well-bred,
modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of his mother,
and also at having lost his father but a few months before, at Barbadoes.
He begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of the ship; for
he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother: and indeed, so they
had, that is to say, passively; for they might have spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, though it had been but just enough
to keep her alive; but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice,
no right, and theraibre is remomeless and capable of no compassion.

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would carry
him away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps, in as bad circumstances
almost as those we found him in, that is to say, starving in the world. He
said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but delivered from the

terrible crew that he was among; that the captain (by which he meant me,
304
for he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life, and he was
surewouldnothurthim; andasforthemaid,he was suraifsheoameto
herself, she would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we
would. The surgeon represented the case so afi'ectionately to me that I
yielded, and we took them both on board. with all their goods, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at; and as
themthhadabmofhdmgforthemlmadehiscommsndersigna
writing,ohligingh_imselPStogo,assoonasheeameto-Bfistol,toone
Mr.Bogers,amerchantthere, towhomtheyouth saidhewasrelated,andto
dehveraletterwhichIwmtetohimaudallthegoodshehsdhelongingto
the deceased widow; which I suppose was not done, for I could never learn
that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea;
being in so disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am
of opinion the first storm she met with afterwards, she might founder, for
she was leaky, and had damage in her hold, when we met with her. -

I was now in the latitude of 19' 32', and had hitherto a tolerable voyage
as to weather, though, at first, the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble
nobody with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c. on the rest
of our voyage; but, to shorten my story, shall observe that I came to my
old habitation, the island, on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no
smalldifiicultythat I found the place; for as Icametoit, andwentfrom
it,before, onthe south sndeastsideof the island, confingfromtheBrazils,
sonow,coming inhetween themain andthe islandand havingno chart
for the coast, nor any land- mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know
whether I saw it or not. We best about a great while, and went on- shore
on several islands in the mouth of the great river Oronooque, but none tor
my purpose; only this I learned by my coastiug'the shore, that I was-
under one great mistake before, viz.' that the continent which I thought I
saw from the island I livedin, was really no continent, butalong'islsnd,
orratheraridgeofislandareaohingfiomonetotheothcrsideofthe
extended mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to
my island were not properly those which we call Csribbees, but islanders,
and other barbarians of the same kind, who inhabiwd nearer to our side
than the rest.

InshortIvisitedseverel of theseislandstonopurpose; someIfound
were inhabited, and some were not; on one of them I found some

Spaniards, and thought they had lived there-3 but, speaking with them,
foundtheyhad-aslooplyinginasmallmekhard by, endeamethitherto.
ens - - x
make salt, and to catch some pearl-mussels if they could; but that they
belonged to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the latitude of
10 and 11 degrees.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship,
sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop, which we had found a convenient
boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will, at length I came Eair
on the south side of my island, and presently knew the very countenance
of the place: so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the
little creek where my old habitation was. As soon as I saw the place,
I called for Friday, and asked him if he knew where he was? He looked
about a little, and presently clapping his hands, cried, " 0 yes, 0 there, 0
yes, 0 there ! " pointing to our old habitation, and fell dancing and oapering
like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into
the sea, to swim ashore to the place.

" Well, Friday," says I, " do you think we shall find anybody here or
no? and do you think we shall see your father? " The fellow stood mute
as a stock a good while; but, when I named his ihther, the poor afi'ectionate
creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears run down his face very
plentifully. " What is the matter, Friday? are you troubled because you
may see your father?"---"No, no," says he, shaking his head, " no see him
more: no, never more see him again." "Why so, Friday? how do you
know that?"---" 0 no, 0 no," says Friday, " be long ago die, long ago; he
much old man." " Well, well, Friday, you don't know; but shall we see
any one else then i " The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he
points to the hill just above my old house; and though we lay half a
league off, he cries out, " We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there,
and there, and there." I looked, but I saw nobody--no, not with a
perspective glass, which was, I suppose, because I could not hit the place;
for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day; and there
were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the ship, not
knowing what to think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English ancient
to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we were friends; and
in about a quarter of an hour after we perceived a smoke arise from the
side of the creek; so I immediately ordered the boat out, taking Friday
with me, and, hanging out a white flag, I went directly on shore, taking
with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the story of my

living there, and the manner of it and every particular, both of myself and
806
those I left there, and who was, on that account, extremely desirous to go
with me. We had, besides, about sixteen men well armed, if we had
found any new guests there which we did not know of; but we had

no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we rowed

directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my eye upon was the
Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly

 

Cltl'EDI: 301m 'flll BPAKIARD ON LAXDING.

well: as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered nobody to
go on shore at first but myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the
boat, for the affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good
way off the Spaniards, where, indeed, I saw nothing of him; and if they
had not let him go ashore, he would have jumped into the see. He was no

sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a how.
307
It would have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution,
to have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came to
his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him
up in his arms, set him down upon a tree,and lay down by him; then
stood and looked at him, as any one would look at a strange picture, for a
quarter of any hour together; then lay down on the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up again, and stared at him; one
would have thought the fellow bewitched. But it would have made a dog
laugh the next day to see how his passion ran out mother way: in the
morning, he walked along the shore, with his father, several hours, always
leadinghim by the hand,as ifhe had been alady; and every now and
then he would come to the boat to fetch something or other for him,
either a lump of sugar, 3. dram, a biscuit, or something or other that was
good. In the afternoon his frolics ran another way; for then he would set
the old man down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make a
thousand antic gestures ; and all the while he did this, he would be talking
to him, and telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what
had happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial
affection was to be found in Christians to their parents, in our part of the
world, one would be tempted to say there would hardly have been any need
of the fifth commandment.

But this is a digression: I return to my landing. It would be needless
to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Spaniards received
me with. The first Spaniard, whom, as I said, I knew very well, was he
whose life I had saved. He came towards the boat, attended by one more,
carrying a flag of truce also; and he not only did not know me at first, but
he had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. " Senhor," said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know me?" At which
he spoke not a word, but, giving his musket to the man that was with him,
threw his arms abroad, saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly
hear, came forward and embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to
know that face again that he had once seen, as of an angel from Heaven,
sent to save his life: he said abundance of very handsome things, as a well-
bred Spaniard always knows how, and then, beckoning to the person that
attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me
if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me possession
of my own house again, and where I should see they had made but mean

improvements. I walked along with him, but, alas! I could no more find
80801' WE 031.1301.

thephoetbmiflhefineverbesntbers; fortheybsdplsnfedsomsny
mmdphcedtbeminmohsposifiomsothicksndolosetooneanothei;
sndintenyeers'timetheyweregrownmbigtbsttheplsoewasinscces-- '
mbleexceptbysuchwindingssndblindwaysastheytbemselvesonly,
whomsdethemmonldfind.

Isskedthemwhatputthsmuponsllthesefortificstion's: hetoldme
Iwouldsaythmwuneedmoughofihwhentbeybsdgivsnmean
aoooflthowtheyhsdpassedtheirtimesincetheirmivingintheislsnd,
especiallyafiertheyhsdthemisfortnnetnfindthethasgone. Retold.
me he could not but have some pleuuminmygwdfortunewhenheheud
tbsthssgoneinsgoodship,endtomysetisfacfion; andtbsthehsd
ofientiinesestrongpersuasionthst onetimeorlotherheshonldseeme
egaimbntnotfingthitembsfeflhhnhhisfifghesdiwassom
prisingsndsfilictingtobimatfirstssthedissppointmenthewssunder
whenhecamebacktotheislsndsndfonndeasnottbsie.

Astothethmebubmsns(sohecslledthem)tbntwerelefthehind,
sndofwhom,hessid,hehsdslongstorytotellme,the8psniardssll
thought themselves much better among the savages, onlythsttheir number
wassosmsll: "en "sayshe,"bsdtheybeenstrongenongh,wshsdbesn
alllonge'goinpurgatory;" sndwitbtbstheuosmdhimselfonthebreest.
"But,sii-," says be,"Ihope youwillnotbedispleased whenIshslltell
you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own premstion,
to disarm them, and make them our subjects, as they would notbe con-
tent with being moderately our masters butwonld be our murdeiers." I
WImsfisidofitwhenIhfithemthmandnothingmbled
meatmypsrtingfiomthe islmdbutthstthsywerenotwmebachthetl
mighthsveputtheminpossessionofevsrythingfirst,endleflztheothersin
estate of subjection, as they deserved; but if theyhadmdnced themtoit
Iwuveryglfimdshouldbeveryfarfiomfindinganyfsultwitbit:
forIknewtheyweresparcelofrefi-schmngovemedvillsinsmdwere
fit for any manner of mischiePS

Whileststhus ssy'ingthisthemsncamswhomhehsdsentbsck,
andwithhimelevenmore. Intbedresstheywereimitwasimpoflew
guesswhstnstiontheywsreof;buthemsdesllcleer,bothtothemsndto
me. Fhsthsmmedtomgsndpoinfingtothmssid,"1hmsir,ue
aomeofthsgentlemsnwhoowetheirlivestoyou;"sndthentumingto
thmmdpoinfingtomgheletthemknowwholwas;nponwhioh-they
sllomenp,onebyons,notasiftheyhsdbeenssilors,sndoldinsry

m . .
fellows, and the like, but really as if they had been ambassadors orncble-
men, and I a. monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was, to thalast
degree, obliging and courteous. and yet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so much
more manners than I, that I scarce lmew how to receive their civilities,
much less how to return them in kind.

,. c ' The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island, alter my going
away, is so very remarkable, and has so many incidents, which the former
part of my. relation will help to understand, and which will, in most of the
particulars, refer to the account I have already given, that I cannot but
commit them, with great delight, to the reading of those that come after me.

In order to do this as intelligibly as I can, I must go back to the
circumstances in which I left the island, and the persons on it, of whom I
am to speak. And first, it is necessary to repeat that I had sent away
Friday's father and the Spaniard (the two whose lives I had rescued from
the savages) in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over
the Spaniard's companions that he left behind him, in order to save them
from the like calamity that he had been in, and in order to succour them
for the present; and that, if possible, we might together find some way for
our deliverance afterwards. When I sent them away, I had no visible
appearance of, or the least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more
than I had twenty years before--much less had I any foreknowledge of
what afterwards happened, I mean, of an English ship coming on shorethere
to fetch me 03.; and it could not be but avery great surprise to them, when
they came back, not only to find that I was gone, but to find three strangers
left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me, which would
otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where I lefi; off, was of their own part; and I desired the Spaniard would
give me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with the
boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little
variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way,
having had very calm weather, and a smooth sea. As for his countrymen,
it could not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see
him (it seems he was the principal man among them, the captain of the
'vessel theyhad been shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they
were, he said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew Who was

fallen into the hands of the savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour
_ no0F nomsosoauson

him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners ; that when he told them the
story of his deliverance, and- in what manner he was furnished for carrying
them away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonishment, he said, was
somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren when he told them who he was,
and the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed
them the arms, the powder, the ball, the provisions, that he brought them ,
for their journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just
share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to

away with him. -

' Theirfirstbnsiness was to get canoes; and inthis they were obliged
not to stick so much upon the honesty of it, but to trespass upon their
friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, on pretense
of going out a fishing, or fin pleasure. In these they came away the next
morning. It seems they wanwl no time to get themselves ready; for they
had neither clothes, nor, provisions, nor anything in the world but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make their
bread. They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in. the
otherpartandtogetofi' fi'omtheislandleaviug'thmeof the most im-
pudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains behind. me, that any
man could desire to meet with--to the poor Spaniards' great griefand
disappointment. ' p ,

The only just thingthe rogues did was, that when the Spaniards cam
ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other
re]ief,as I had ordered them to do;alsotheygavethemthelongpaperof
directions which I had left with them, containing the particular methods
whiohItook for managing every part of my life there; the wathfled
'my bread, bmd up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I cured my
grapes, made my: pots, and, in a word, everything I did. All this being
written down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them understood English
well enough) : nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with
anything else, for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them
an equal admission into the house, or cave, and they begentolivevery
sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of mymethods,
together with mam. tether, managed all their affairs; but as'for'the-

Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots,
and catch tortoises; and when they came home at night, the Spaniards
provided their suppers for them. . '

.1!
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others but
let them alone, which, however, they could not find in their hearts to do
long; but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves,
neither would they let the others eat. The difi'erences, nevertheless, were at
first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at last it broke out
into open war: and it began with all the rudeness and insolence that can
be imagined--without reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and,
indeed, to common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet when I
came to examine the fellows, they could not deny'a word of it

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a defect
in my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set down, among the rest,
that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened a little
quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once afraid would have turned to
a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain, musing up his
courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force, and,
making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons:
and as they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly,
dangerous words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away with
the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, fright-
ened some other men in the ship; and some of them had put it into the
head of the rest, that the captain only gave them good words for the present,
till they should come to some English port, and that then they should be all
put into gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence of this,
and acquainted us with it, upon which it was desired that I, who still
passed for a great man among them, should go down with the mate, and
satisfy the men, and tell them that they might be assured, it they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past should be
pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honeur's word to them, they
appeared easy, and the more so when I caused the two men that were in
irons to be released and forgiven. "

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the wind
also falling calm next morning, we found that our two men, who had been
laid in irons, had stolen each of them a musket, and some other weapons '
(what powder or shot they had we knew not), and had taken the ship's
pinnaoe, which was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to their

companions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the
an
long<boat on shore with twelve men and the mate, and away they went-to
seek the rogues; but they could neither find them nor any of the rest, for
they all tied into the woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. The
mate was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burned all their household stufl and fumiture, and left them to
shifi without it ; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left everything as

he found it, and, bringing the pinnaoe away, came on board without them.

These two men made their number five; but the other three villains were'
so much more wicked than they, that after they had been two or three

days together, they turned the two new-comers out of doors to shift for

themselves, and would have nothing to do with them; nor could they,

for a good while, be persuaded to give them any food: as for the Spaniards,

they were not yet come.

When_the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English brutes to
have taken in their countrymen again, that, as they said, they might be all
one family; but they would not hear of it, so the two poor fellows lived by
themselves ; and finding nothing but industry and application would make
them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who
always landed on the east parts of the island. Here they built them two
huts, one to lodge in, and the otherto lay up their-magazines and stores in;
and the Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and some of the
peas which I had lefis them, they dug, planted, and encloud, after the pattern
I had set for them all, and'began to livepretty well. Their firstcrop of corn
was on the ground; and though it was but a little bit of land which they
haddug up atfimthavinghadbutahtflefimayetitwasenoughto
relieve them, and find them with bread and other eatables; and one of the
fellows being the cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup.
puddings, and such other preparations as the rice and the milk, and such
httlefleshastheygotfurnishedhimtodo.

They were going on in this little thriving position when the three
unnatural rogues, their own oountymen too, in mere humour, and to insult
them, came and bullied them, and told them theislandwastheirs: thatthe
governor, meaning me, had given them the possession of it, and nobody else
hadan'yrighttoit; andthat theyshouldbuildnohouses upontheir
gmnnd, unless they would pay rent for them. .The two men, thinking they
were jesting at first, asked .them to come in and sit' down, and seewhat

81s -
fine houses they were that they had built, and to tell them what rent
they demanded; and one of them merrily said, if they were the ground-
landlords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon their land, and made
improvements, they would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a
long lease: and desired they would get a. scrivener to draw the writings.
One of the three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they were
not in jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where the honest men
had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a firebrand, and claps it to
'the outside of their hut, and set it on fire: indeed, it would have been all
burned down in a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow,
thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without
some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him away,
that he returned upon him, with a. pole he had in his hand, and had not the
man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had ended his
clays at once His comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran in
after him, and immediately they came both out with their mnskets, and the
man that was first struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down that
began the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and that before the other
two could come to help him; and then seeing the rest come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand off.

The others had fire-arms with them too ; but one of the two honest men.
bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger, told them, if
they offered to move hand or foot, they were dead men, and boldly com-
manded them to lay down their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down
their arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and
they consented to take their wounded man with them and be gone: and,
indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded suifieiently with the blow. How-
ever, they were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they
did not disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and have gone
immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues
had treated them; for the three villains studied nothing but revenge, and
every day gave them some intimation that they did so.

But not to crowd this part with unaccount of the lesser partof the
rogueries with which they plagued them continually n'ght and day, it
forced the two men to such a desperation, that they resolved to fight them

all three, the first time they had a fair opportunity. In ordertodothie'
an
they resolved to go to the castle (as they called my old dwelling), Where
the three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending
to have a, fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play:
so they got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and called
the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that
they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having been in the
woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I called
the honest men, and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of
the barbarous usage they had met with fi'om their three countrymen, and how
they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn that they had

 

THE IDLE ANT! INDCHRIOUH SAILORS, COME 1'0 310'".

laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the much-goat, and their three

'kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he

and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and they
were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove the three
Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them
how they could he so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive fellows: that
they were putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that
it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection as
they were then in.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, "What had they to do
315
there'l that they came on shore without leave; and that they should not
plant or build upon the island; it was none of their groan " "Why,"
says the Spaniard very calmly, "Seignior Inglese, they must not starve"
The Englishman replied, like a rough tarpauling, " They might starve;
they should not plant nor build in that place." "But what must they do
then, seignior?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, "Do!
they should be servants, and work for them." " But how can you expect
that of them 3" says the Spaniard; " they are not bought with your money;
you have no right to make them servan " The Englishman answered,
" The island was theirs ; the governor had given it to them, and no man had
anything to do there but themselves ; " and with that he swore that he would
go and burn all their new huts; they should build none upon their land.
"Why, seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule, we must be your
servants too." "Ay," returned the bold dog, " and so you shall, too, before
we have done with you ;" mixing two or three oaths in the proper intervals
of his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that, and made him no answer.
However, this little discourse had heated them; and starting up, one says
to the other (I think it was he they called Will Atkins), " Come, Jack, let's
go, and have t'other brush with them; we'll demolish their castle, I'll
warrant you ; they shall plant no colony in our dominions."

Upon this they were all trooping away, with every man a gun, a. pistol,
and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among themselves, of what
they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportunity ofi'ered; but the
Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them as to know all the
particulars, only that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking the
two Englishmen's part Whither they went, or how they bestowed their
time that evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they
wandered about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the
place which I used to call my bower, they were weary and overslept them--
selves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and so
to take the two poor men when they were asleep, and as they acknowledged
afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts while they were in them, and
either burn them there, or murder them as they came out. As malice
seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been
kept awake. However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I
have said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering, it
happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up and gone abroad,

before the bloody~minded rogues came to their huts.
are
When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it seems.
was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade, "Ha, Jack, here's the
nest, but the birds are flown." They mused awhile, to think what should
be the occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested pre-
sently that the Spaniards had given them notice of it; and with that they
shook hands, and swore to one another that they would be revenged of the
Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work
with the poor men's habitation ; they did not set fire, indeed, to anything,

 

1""! SPASIARD "ROCKS DOW)! THE ENGLISH 3:!le

but they pulled down both their houses, not leaving the least stick standing,
or scarce any sign on the ground where they stood; they tore all their
household stufi' in pieces, and threw everything about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some of their things a. mile off. When
they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees which the poor men
had planted ; broke down an inclosure they had made to secure their cattle
and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered everything as com-
pletely as a. horde of Tartars would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out, and had
317
resolved to fight them wherever they had been though they were but two
to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed
among them, for they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them
their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they them-
selves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one another, when the
three were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the two
went back to find them, the three were come to the old habitation again:
we shall see their different conduct presently. When the three came back
like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had been
about had put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what
they had done, by way of scofi' and bravado; and one of them stepping
up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at play,
takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about,
fleering in his face, says to him, "And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall
have the same sauce, if you do not mend your manners." The Spaniard,
who, though a quiet, civil man, was as brave a man as could be, and,
withal, a strong, well-made man, looked at him for a good while, and then,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and, with one
blow of his fist, knocked him down, as an ex is felled with a pole-axe ; at
which one of the rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the
Spaniard immediately: be missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went
through his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than
he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he acted all in a
perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his work, he stooped,
and taking the fellow's musket 'whom he had knocked down, was just
going to shoot the man who had fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards,
being in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped
in, secured the other two, and took their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began to
cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was befiveen them and
the other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best method they could
take to keep them from killing one another, told them they would do them
no harm; and if they would live peaceably, they would be very willing to

assist and associate with them as they did before; but that they- could not
818 .
think of giving them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to
do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.

The rogues werenowquite deaf to all seamendbeingrefused their
ms, they raved away like madman, threatening what they would do,
though theth no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threat-
eningtoldthem they shouldtakeearehowtheyofl'ered anyiniurytotheir
plantation or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot them as they would
ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they fell into their
hands alive, they should certainly be hanged However, this was far from
cooling them, but away they went, raging and swearing like furies. As soon
as they were gone, the tWo men came back, in passion and rage enough
also, though of another kind; for having been at their plantation, and
finding it all demolished and destroyed, as above mentioned, it will wily
be supposed they had provocation enough. They could scarce have room
to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eagertotellthem theirs;'and. it
was strange enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punishment at alL

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus dis-
armed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Englishmen
resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to
find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that
as they had disarmed them, they could not consent that they (the two)
should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them. "But," said the
grave Spaniard, who was their govemor, " we will endeavour to make them
do you justice, if you will leave it to us: for there is-no doubt but they
will come to us again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist
without our assistance We promise you to make no peace with them
without having a full satisfietion for you; and, upon this condition, we
hopeyauwillpromiss to useno violencewiththem,other thaninyour own
defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with
great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested'that they did it only to keep
them from bloodshed, and to make them all easy at last. " For," said they,
"wearenotsomsny of us; hereisroomenoughforusalLandit'is agrest
pity that we should not be all good friends." At length they did con-
sent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living for some days with the
Spaniards ; for their own habitation was destroyed.

In about five days' timethe vagrants, tired with wandering, and almost

819
starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while,
came back to the grove; and finding 'my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was
the governor, and two more with him, walking by the side of the creek,
they came up in a very submissive, humble manner, and beged to be
received again into the society. The Spaniards used them civilly, but told
them they had acted so unnaturally to their countrymen, and so very grossly
to themselves, that they could not come to any conclusion without con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would go to
them and discourse about it, and they should know in half an hour. It
may be guessed that they were very hard put to it; for, as they were
to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged they would send
them out some bread in the mean time, which they did, sending, at the
same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, and a boiled parrot, which they ate
very eagerly.

After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and a long debate
ensued, their two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all their labour,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned before, and therefore
could not deny now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators
between them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the
three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same and
the other of larger dimensions than they were before ; to fence their ground
again, plant trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the land again for
planting corn, and, in a word, to restore everything to the same state as
they found it, that is, as near as they could. '

Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of provisions
given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society
began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again; only that these
three fellows could never be persuaded to work--I mean for themselves--
except now and then a little, just as they pleased: however, the Spaniards
told them plainly, that if they would but live sociably and friendly together,
and study the good of the whole plantation, they would be' content to work
for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased ; and thus.
having lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards let them
have arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before.

It was not above a week after they had these arms, and went abroad
before the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and troublesome an
ever: however, an accident happened presently upon this, which endangered

32003' 30313803 631730!-

the safety of them all, and they were obliged to lay by all private resent-
ments, and look to the preservation of their lives. ' .

It happened one night that the governor, the Spaniard whose life I had
saved, who was now the governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy
in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in
body, only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men fighting
and killing one another; but he was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep; in short, he lay a great while, but, growing more and
more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, beingso many of them, on goat-
skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made for themselves,
so they had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get upon '
their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and
they were ready for going any way that their thoughts guided them; Being
thus got up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothing,
and, besides, the trees which I had planted, and which were now grown tall,
intercepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and see that it was a
starlight night, and, hearing no noise, he returned and lay down again; but
to no purpose: he could not compose himself to anything likerest; but
his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and
coming in, another of them waked, and asked who it was that was up. The
governor told him how it had been with him. "Say you so?" says the
other Spaniard; " such things are not to he slighted, I assure you; there is
certainly some mischief working near us ;" and presently he asked him,
" Where are the Englishmen 2"---" They are all in their huts," says he, "safe
enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apart-
ment, and had made a place for the thme Englishmen, who, since their last
mutiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something in it, I am persuaded,
from my own experience. I am satisfied that our spirits embodied have a
converse with, and receive intelligence from, the spirits unembodied, and
inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for. our
advantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Come, let us go and look
abroad; and if we find nothing at all in it tojustifythetrouble,1'lltell
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
PmPosing it," -

Theywent outpresently,to go up to the top of the hill, whereInsed
test>>; but theybeingstmng, and-agood company, noralonaas Iwas,nsed

821 Y
MANDADW

none of my cautions to go up by the ladder, and pulling it up after them,
to go up a second stage to the top, but were going round through the grove.
unwarily, when they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very
little way from them, and hearing the voices of men, not of one or two,
. but of a great number.

Among the precautions I used to take on the- savages landing on

the island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least dis-

_ covery of there being any inhabitant upon the place; and when by any
occasion they came to know it, they felt it so efi'ectually that they that got
away were scarce able to give any account of it; for we disappeared as soon
as possible ; nor did ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else,
except it was the three savages in our last encounter. who jumped into the
boat; of whom, I mentioned, I was afraid they should go home and bring
more help. Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men
that so great a number came now together, or whether they came ignorantly,
and by accident, on their usual bldody errand, the Spaniards could not
understand ; but, whatever it was, it was their business either to have con-
cealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all, much less to have let the
savages have seen there were any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen
upon them so efl'ectually as not a man of them should have escaped, which
could only have been by getting in between them and their boats: but this '
presence of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tran-
quillity for a great while.

We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him, sur.
prised with this sight, ran back immediately and raised their fellows, giving
them an account of the imminent danger they were all in, and they again
as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible to persuade them to stay
close within where they were, but they must all run out to seehow things
stood. While it was dark, indeed, they were safe, and they had opportunity
enough, for some hours, to view the savages by the light of three fires they
had made at a distance from one another; what they were doing they knew
not, neither did they know what to do themselves. For, first, the enemy
were too many; and, secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided
into several parties, and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and, as they
found that the fellows went straggling all over the shore, they made no'
doubt but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon their habitation.

or upon some other place where they would see the token of inhabitant", '
I m ..:ii'"

a , -' Paar '
01' new mason:

and theywmhgmatpmplefitydmhrfeuofthdrfloek'owahieh.
ifflieyshonldbedeshoyedwouldhaveheenfitfleleesthanetawingthm
Sothefirstthingtheyremlveduponwostodespatehthreemenaweyhefon
itwafiightthpaniaidsmdoneEnglishmantodfiveallthegoatsaway
to the'great valley where the cave mand,_if'need were,>> drive them
into the veryoave itself. Could theyhave seenthe savagesaltogetherin

onebody,and at a distanmfiomtheirlmoegtheyweremlveiifthm'
had been a hundmd ofthmto attackthem; butthatoonldnot.hedone,_
fortheyweremmofthmtwomflmoflfiomtheothagmdasitappeued

afierwardswere of two difi'erent nations. '~ '-

 

 

Afl'er having musedegreatwhfleontheeoursetheyshouldtakethey

resolved, at last, while it was still dark, to send the old. savage,,Friday's '
father, out as a spy, to loam, if pom'ble, something concerning them--es
whattheycamefor,whattheyintendedtodo,andthe like. The old man
readily undertook it; audsiaippinghimselfquitenaked,asmostofthe
savages were, away he went. After he had been gone an hour ortwo, he .
bringswordthat he had been among them undiscovered--that hefiound '
theyweretwoparties,andof two several nations, whohadwerwith

one another, and hada great battle in their own country; undthathofla
sides having had several prisoners taken in'the fighttheywerehy meme
chance,landedallonthesameisland,forthedevouringtheirprisonersmd
maldngmmy;buttheiroomingsobychanoetothesameplacehadspofled
alltheirmirth,--thattheywereinegreatrageatone anothenandwereso
near, that he believed they would fight again assoon as daylight begento.
appear,- but he did not perceive that they had any notion of anybody _.
beingontheislandbutthemselves. Hehadhardlymadeenend'oftelling. '
his story,when theycould pomeivgbythe unusual noise theyuladgthat
the two little annieswere engaged in a bloody fight. Friday's htherused
all thearguments he could to persuade our people tofiedoseandrnotpe
Seen;hetoldthem their safety consistedinit, and'that theyhadnothingto
dohutliesfilLand the savages would killone anothertotheirhands,and'
then thereetwould goaway; anditwas sotoatittle. Butitwaafimpoe-
sible to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen;'their curiosity was so
importunate, thatthey mustrunout aud'see thebattle; however, .theyused
somecantion,too: theydid notgoopenlyjusthytheirowndweflingghut .
went farther into the woods, andplaeed themselvestoadventage, where-they _

mightseeurelyseethemmsnagethefightandastheythoughgnotbeeesa
bythemghutflmsavagesdidseeflimasv'weehallfindhereafle. ' ' '
Thebattlewasveryfieme; mdiflmight believetheEnglishmen, one of
them said he could perceive that some of them were men of grew bravery,
of invincible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the fight. The battle,
they said, held two hours before they could guess which party would be
beaten; but then that party which was nearest our people's habitation
began to appear weakest, and after some time more, some of them began to
fly; and this put our men again into a great consternation, lest any one of
those that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter,
and thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence, the
pursuers would also do the like in search of them. Upon this, they resolved
that they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into the
grove, they resolved to sally out over the wall and kill them, so that, if
possible, not one should return to give an account of it; they ordered also
that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with
the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting them, for fear of raising
an alarm by the noise.

As they expected it fell out ; three of the rouwd army fled for life, and
crowng the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the least knowing
whither they went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter. The scout
they kept to look abroad gave notice of this within, with this comforting
addition, that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way
they were gone; upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity,
would not sufi'er them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three men out
by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind them, and
surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The residue of the
conquered people fled to their canoes, and got oii' to sea; the victors retired,
made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves into a body together,
gave two great screaming shouts, most likely by way of triumph--and so the
fight ended: the same day, about three o'clock in the afiernoon. they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had the island again free
to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no savages for several
years after.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and
viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty men dead on
the spot; some were killed with long arrows, which were found sticking
in their bodies; but most of them were killed with great wooden swords;
sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the field of battle, and as

munybows, withagreatmanyarrows. Theseswordswarestrange,
824
nnwieldythingsrandtheymustbeverystrongmenthstusedthsm}
mostofthosethatwerekilledwiththemhsdtheirhesdsmashedto'pieoes,
aswemsysay,or,ssweoel1itinEnglish,theirhninsknooked amend
severaltheirsrmsandlegs'heken;sothatitisevidenttheyfight.with
inexpressibleragesndfury. We foundnotonemsnthst wasnotstoue
deed;foreithertheysteybytheirenemytilltheyhsvekilledhim,or
theyosrryellthewoundedmenthstuenotquitedeadswaywiththem.'
This deliverance tamed mill-disposed Englishmen for agreat while-;
the sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences sppmd '
terfibletothelustdegreeeepeeisllyuponsupposingthatsometimeor
other they should fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not
only kill-themaenemies,hutPSorfood,sswekillouroattle;andthey

 

professed to me that the thoughts of being eaten nplike beef and mutton, . _

though it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead, had something
in it so horrible that it nauseeted their very stomachs, made them sick
when they thought of it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror,
that they were not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed
eventhe three EnglishbrutesIhsve beenspeskingof; and-fotsgreat'
while after they were tractable, and went about the common business at
the whole society well enough--planted, sowed, reaped, and began to. be
all naturalized to the country. But some time after this they fell into
such simple measures again, as brought them into a great deal of trouble. -.

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed ; and these three being
stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught them to work
for them, and as slaves they did well enough; but they did not take their
.meashresssIdidbymymsnFIiday,viz.toheginwith themuponthe
' principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct them in the rational
principles of life; much less did theythink of teaching them religion, or
attempt civilizing and reducing them by ln'nd usage and affectionate argui-
ments. As they gave them their food every day, so they gave-them their

work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough; but they" '

fifledinthisbyitthsttheyneverhsdthemtoassistthemundlightfiir
themssIhsdmymauFridey,whowsssstauetomeastheve1-yoflesh
nponmybones. -
Buttocometothefsmilypert. Beingsflnowgoodfrien .
common danger, as I said above, had efi'ectuslly reconciled .thenr--'--they
begantoconsidertheirgenerslciroumstanoes;undthefirstthingthfi W
cameundereonsidersfionwaswhether,eeeingthesevagapeztioulidf__mmanvmrum

haunted that side of the island, and that there were more remote and
retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of living, and manifestly
.to their advantage, they should not rather move their habitation, and
plant in some more proper place for their safety, and especially for the
security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not
remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they thought
they might hear from their governor again, meaning me; and if I should
send any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct them to that side,
where, if they should find the place demolished, they would conclude
the savages had killed us all, and we were gone, and so our supply
would go too. But, as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove
them into the valley where my cave was, where the land was as proper
for both, and where, indeed, there was land enough. However, upon
second thoughts, they altered one part of their resolution too, and resolved
only to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn
there; so that if one part was destroyed, the other might be saved.
And one part of prudence they luckily used: they never truswd those
three savages which they had taken prisoners with knowing anything of
the plantation they had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had
there, much less of the cave at that place, which they kept, in case of
necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels
of powder, which I had sent them at my coming away. They resolved,
however, not to change their habitation; yet, as I had carefully covered
it first with a wall or fortification, and then with a grove of trees, and
as they were now fully convinced their safety consisted entirely in their
being concealed, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet more
efi'ectually than before For this purpose, as I planted trees, or rather
thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up to be trees, for some good
distance before the entrance into my apartments, they went on in the
same manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground from
the trees I had set quite down to the side of the creek, where I landed
my floats, and even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much
as leaving any place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing
therea'bouts,--these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
they took care to have them generally much larger and taller than those
which I had planted ' As they grew space, they planted them so very

thick and close together, that when they had been three or four years
326
grown, there was no piercing with the eye any considerable way into
the plantation As for that part which I had planted, the trees were
grownasthickasaman'sthigh, andamongthem theyhadplacedsc
many other short ones, and so thick, that it stood like a palisedo a quarter
ofamile thickanditwesnextto impossibleto penetrateit, fora little
dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood so close

But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground to the
right hand and to the left, and round even to the side of the hill, leaving
no way, not so much as for themselves, to come out but by the ladder
placeduptothesideofthehillandthenlifiedup, and placedagain
from the first stage up tothe top: so that when the ladder was taken
down, nothing but what had wings or witchcraft to assist it could come
at them. This was excellently well contrived: nor was it less than what
they afterwards found occasion for, which served to convince me, that as
human prudence has the authority of Providence to justify it, so it has
doubtless the direction of Providence to set it to work; and if we listened
carefully to the voice of it, I am persuaded we might prevent many .
of the disasters which our lives are now, by our own negligence, sub-
jected to.

They lived two years after this in perfect retirement, -'and had no
morevisitsfiomthesavages. Theyhad,indeed,analarmgiventhem
one morning, which put them into a great consternation; for, some of the
Spaniards being out early one morning on the west side, or'end, ofthe
island (which was that end where I never went, for fear of being dis-
covered), they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes of Indians
just coming on shore. They made the best of their way home in hurry
enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept cloeeall that
day and the next, going out only at night to make their observation; but
they had the good luck to be undiscovered, for wherever the savages
went, they did not land that time on the island, but pursued some other
design

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three
captive slaves, because the fellow had not done. something right which
he bid him do, and seemed a little untractable in his showing him, drew
a hatchet out of a frog-belt, which he were by his side, and fell upon '
the poor savage, not to'oorrecthim,butto ldllhim. Oneof the
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a bubarous cut wifi:

837THY. smmum mum-mas you 1113 SLAVE.

the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulder,
so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran to him,
and, entreating him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow, being enraged
the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he

would serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard
3-250! aosmsos 031750].

perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel which he had in his
hand (for they were all working in the field about their corn land) knocked
the brute down. Another of the Englishmen, running up at the same
time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and then two
Spaniards more came in to help their man, and a third Englishman fell
in upon them. They had none of them any fire-arms or any other weapons
but hatchets and other tools, except this third Englishman; he had one of
my rusty outlassee, with which he made at the two last Spaniards, and
wounded them both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and
more help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had been so
often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and so idle withal,
they knew not what course to take with them, for they were mischievous
to the highest degree, and cmd not what hurt they did to any man; so
that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that
if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged them; for
all laws and all governors were to preserve society. and those who were
dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it; but as they were
Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman-
that they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would use them
with all possible lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of the
other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen. One of the two honest
Englishmen stood up, and said they desired it might not be left to them,--
"For," says he, "I am sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows ; "
and with that he gives an account how Will'Atkins, one of the three,
had proposed to have all the five Englishmen join together, and murder
all the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins," How,
Seignior Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you to say to that?"
The hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true,
and swore they would do it still before they had done with them. " Well,
but Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "what have we done to you, that
you will kill us? What would you get by killing us? And what must
we do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill you, or you kill us't
Why will you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins 1" says the
Spaniard very calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such .a rage at

the Spanisrd's making a jest of it, 8that-had he not been held by three
men, and withal had no weapon near him, it was thought he would have
attempted to kill the Spaniard in the middle of all the company. This
hair-brain carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be
done. The two Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage,
were of the opinion that they should hang one of the three, for an example
to the rest, and that particularly it should be he that had twice attempted
to commit murder with his hatchet; indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received, that it was thought he could
not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an Englishman
that had saved all their lives, and he would never consent to put an
Englishman to death, though he had murdered half of them; nay, he
said if he had been killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left
to speak, it should he that they should pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there
was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail,
where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it; but then it
was to be considered what should be done to keep them from doing the
mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means were
to be used for preserving the society from danger. After a long debate, it
was agreed that they should be disarmed, and not permitted to have either
gun, powder, shot, sword, or any weapon; that they should be turned out
of the society, and left to live where they would, and how they would, by
themselves; but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should
hold any kind of converse with them, or have anything to do with them:
that they should be forbid to come within a certain distance of the place
where the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit any disorder, so as to
spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, they should die without mercy, and would
shoot them wherever they could find them.

The humane governor, musing upon the sentence, considered a little upon
it; and turning to the two honest Englishmen, said, "Hold; you must
reflect that it will be long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own,
and they must not starve; we must therefore allow them provisions." So
he caused to be added, that they should have a proportion of corn given
them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time they
might be supposed to raise some of their own; that they should have six

milch-goats, four hegoats, and six ldds given them, as well for present
830
subsistence as for a store; and that they should have tools given them for
their work in the fields, but they should have none of these tools or pro-
visions, unless they would swear solemnly that they would not hurt or
injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of their fellow Englishmen

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift for
themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither content to
go away nor to stay; but. as there was no remedy, they went, pretending to
go and choose a place where they would settle themselves; and some
provisions were given them, but no weapons. About four or five days after,
they came again for some victuals, and gave the governor an account where
they had pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and
plantation; and it was a very convenient place indeed, on the remotest
part of the island, NZE, much about the place where I providentially landed
in my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, in my foolish attempt to
sail round the island

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived them in a
manner like my first habitation, being close under the side of a hill, having
some trees growing already on threesides of it, so that by planting others, it
would he very easily covered from the sight, unless narrowly searched for.
They desired some dried goat-skins, for beds and covering which were given
them; and upon giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or
injure any of their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in
a word, anything they wanted, except arms and ammunition.

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had got in
their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the parcel of land
they had planted being but little. Indeed, having all their plantation to
form, they had a. great deal of work upon their hands; and when they
came to make boards and pots, and such things, they were quite out of
their element, and could make nothing of it; therefore, when the rainy
season came on, for want of a cave in the earth they could not keep their
grain dry, and it was in great dangervof spoiling. This humbled them
much: so they came and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they
very readily did; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of'ths
bill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things from the
min: butitwas apoor place atbest, compared to mine, and especiallyas
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made several

new apartments in it. .
"l
About three quarters of a year after this separation, anew frolic took
these rogues, which, together with the former villany they had committed,
brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin
of the whole colony. The three new associates began, it seems, to be
weary of the laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering
their circumstances: and a whim took them that they would make a voyage
to the continent, from whence the savages came, and would. try if they
could seize upon some prisoners among the natives there, and bring them
home, so as to make them do the laborious part of the work for them.

The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no further. But
they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had either mischief in the
design, or mischief in the event. And if I may give my opinion, they
seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow a
visible curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of
things with the Divine justice? It was certainly an apparent vengeance on
their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state they were
in; and they showed not the least remorse for the crime, but added new
villanies to it, such as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor
slave because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he
directed, and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for his cure;
and, what was still worse, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it was,
as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards
in cold blood, and in their sleep. .

The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very
humble terms desired to he admitted to speak with them. The Spaniards
very readily heard what they had to say, which was this :--that they were
tired of living in the manner they did, and that they were not handy
enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and that having no help, they
found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards would give them leave
to take one of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and
ammunition proportioned to their defence, they would go over to the main,
and seek their fortunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying
them with any other provisions

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very honestly
represented to them the certain destruction they were mung into; told
them they had sufi'md such hardships upon that very spot, that they could.

without any spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or murdered.
ass
0130mm! WI.

and bade them oonsider oi it. The men replied audaciously, they should
be starved if they stayed here, for they could not work, and would not
work, and they could but he starved abroad; and if they were murdered
themwasanendof-them;theyhednowives or ohildrentocryafier
them;an an,d in short, insisted importu'nately upon their demand. declaring
they would go, whether they gave them any arms or no.

TheSpaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were resolved
to go, they should not go like naked men, and be' in no condition to defend
themselves; and that though they could ill spare fire-arms. not having
enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two muskets, a pistol,
endacutlass, andeach man a hatchetwhich they thought'was suflioieut
for them. In a word, they "accepted the ofl'er; and, having hakedbread
enough to serve them a month given them, and as much goat's flesh as
they could eat while it was sweet, with a great basket of driedgrapes, a pot
of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the canoe for a
voyage over'the see, where it was atleast fortymiles bread. The boat,
indeed, was a large one, and would very well have carried fifieeu or twenty
men, and therefore was rather too big for them to manage; but as they
had a fair breeze and flood-tide with them, they did well enough. They
had made a meat of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried,
which they had sewed or laced together; and away they went merrily
enough The Spaniards called after them, " Boa veggie ,r" and no man ever
thought of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, md to the two honest
Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfortably they lived,
now these three turbulent fellows were gone. As for their coming again,
that was the remotest thing from their thoughts that could be imagined;
when, behold. after two-and-twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen.
being abroad upon his planting--work, sees three strange men coming
towards him at a distance, with guns upon their shoulders. -

Away runs the Englishman, frightened and amazed, as if- he was be-
witched. to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all undone,
for there were strangers upon the island, but he could not tell who
they were. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him, "How do you
mean--you cannot tell who? They are the savages, to be sue."-- "No.
110." says the Englishman; " they are men in clothes, with arms." "Nay,
then," says the Spaniard, "why are you so concerned? Ifthey are not
savages they must be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth
but will do us good rather than harm." While they were debating
thus, came up the thne Englishmen, and, standing without the wood,
which was new planted, hallooed to them. They presently knew their
voices. and so all the wonder ceased But now the admiration was turned
upon another question :---what could be the matter, and what made them
come back again?

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where
they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a full
account of their voyage in a few words :---that they reached the land in
less than two days, but finding the people alarmed at their coming, and
preparing with bows and arrows to fight them, they dnrst not go on shore,
but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they came to a great
opening, by which they perceived that the land they saw from our island
was not the main, but an island: that upon entering that opening of the sea,
they saw another island on the right hand north, and several more west; and
being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west, and went boldly on shore; that they found the people very courteous
and friendly to them ; and they gave them several roots and some dried fish,
and appeared very sociable; and that .the women, as well as the men, were
very forward to supply them with anything they could get for them to eat
and brought it to them a great way upon their heads. They continuec
here four days, and inquired, as well as they could of them by signs, who-L
nations were this way, and that way, and were told of several fierce and
terrible people that lived almost every way, who, as they made known by
signs to them, used to eat men; but, as for themselves, they said, they never
ate men or women, except only such as they took in the wars; and then
they owned they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that kind; and
they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon and to two
fingers ; and that their great ldng had two hundred prisoners now, which he
had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to make them fat for the
next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those.
prisoners; but the others mistaking them, thought they were desirous to
have some of them to carry away for their own eating. So they beckoned
to them, pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising; which
was to signify that the next morning at sunrising they would' bring some
for them; and, accordingly, the next morning they brought down five

women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with
a"them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down
toaseaporttowntovictualsship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home. their stomachs
turned at this sight, and they did not know what todo. To refuse the pri-
soners would have been the highest afil'ont to the savage gentry that could
be ofi'ered them, and what to do with them they knew not. However, afier
some debate, they resolved to accept-of them; and, in return, they gave the
savages that brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six
or seven of their bullets ; which, though they did not understand their use,
they seemed particularly pleased with; and then tying the poor creatures'
hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the boat for our men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them,
or else they that gave them this noble present would certainly have expected
that they should have gone to work with them, have killed two or three of

But having taken. their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could
well pass between people, where, on either side, they understood not one
word they could say, they put off with their boat, and came back towards
the first island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners
at liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion. In their
voyage, they endeavoured to have some communication with their prisoners;
but it was impossible to make them understand anything. Nothing they
could say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was looked upon as
going to murder them. They first of all unbound them; but the poor
creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if they had just felt the
knife at their throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound
on purpose to be killed. If they gave them anything to eat, it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh,
and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more par-
ticularly, the party presently concluded it was to see whether he or she was
fattest, and fittest to kill first ; nay, after they had brought them quits over,
and began to use them kindly, and treat them well, still they expected
every day to make a dinner or supper for their new masters.

When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history or journal
of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their new family was; and
being told that they had brought them on shore, and put them into one of
their huts, and were come up to beg some victusls for them; they .(the
Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony,

m .

:
reeolvedtogoalldowntotheplaceandaeethem;anddidso,andhiday',
father with them. When they came into the hut, there they eat, all bound;
for when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands, that
they might not take the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they sat,
all of them stark naked. First, there were three comely fellows, wen
shaped, with straight limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five
women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty, two more about four or
five-and--twenty; and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about seventeen The
women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape and features,
only tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect white, would have
passed for very handsome women, even in London. having pleasant coun.
tenances, and of a very modest behaviour; especially when they came
afterwards to be clothed and dressed, though that dress was very indifl'erent,
it must he confessed.

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards,
who were, to give them a just character, men of the most calm, sedate
tempers, and perfect good humour, that ever I met with; and, in particular,
of the most modesty: I say, the sight was very uncouth, to see three naked
men and five naked women, all together bound, and in the most miserable
circumstances that human nature could be supposed to be, viz. to be ex-
pecting every moment to be dragged out, and have their brains knocked
out, and then to be eaten up like a ca1PSthat is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father, to
go in, and see first if he knew any of them, and then if he understood any
of their speech. As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously at
them, but knew none of them; neither could any of them understand a
word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the women. However,
this was enough to answer the end, which- was to satisfy them that the men
into whose hands they were fallen were Christians; that they abhorred
eating men or women; and that they might be sure they would not be
killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a joy,
and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to describe; for it
seems they were of several nations. The woman who was their interpreter
was bid, in the next place, to ask them if they were willing to be servants,
and to work for the men who had brought them away, to save their lives;
at which they all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this.
and another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders.

to intimate they were willing to work.
an
The governor, who found that the having women. among them would
presently be attended with some inconvenience, and 'might' occasion some
strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what they intended to do
with these women, and how they intended to use them. whether as servants
or as wives? One of the Englishmen answered. very boldly and readily,
that they would use them as both; to which the governor said. " I am not.
going to restrain you from it--you are your own masters as to that; but
this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and
Idesire it of you for that reason only,viz.thatyouwill all engage, that
if any of you take any of these women as a wife, he shall take but one;
and that, having taken one, none else shall touch her; for though we
cannot marry any one of you, yet it is but reasonable that, while you stay
here,the woman anyof youtakes shall be maintained by the man that
takes her, and should be his wife--I mean," says he, " while he continues
here, and that none else shall have anything to do with her." All this
appeared so just, that every one agrwd to it without any difficulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to take any>>
of them? But every one of them answered " No." Some of them said they
had wives in Spain, and the others did not like women that were not
Christians; and all together declamd that they would not touch one of
them, which was an instanoe of such virtue as I have not met with in all
my travels. 0n the other hand, the five Englishmen took them every one
a wife--that is to say, a temporary wife; and so they set up a new form of
living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in my old habitation,
which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The three servants which
were taken in the last battle of the savages lived with them; and these
carried on the main part of the colony, supplied all the rest with food,
and assisted them in anything as they could, or as they found necessity
required.

But the wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-matched.
fellows should agree about these women, and that some two of them should
not choose the same woman, especiallyseeing two or three of themwere,
without comparison, more sgmeable than the others, but they took a good
way enough to prevent quarrelling among themselves, for they set the five
women by themselves' in one of their huts, and they went all into the other
hut, and drew lots among them who should choose first

Him that drewto choose firstwent awaybyhimself to the hutwhere

the poor naked creatureswere, and fetched out her he chose; and 'it was
887 a z ,
worth observing, that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the
homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the rest;
and even the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fellow considered better than
any of them, that it was application and business they were to expect
assistancein, asmuchasinanythingelse; and sheprovedthebestwifeof
all the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched
out one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon them again, and
they firmly believed they were now going to be devoured. Accordingly,
when the English sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the rest set
up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their leave of he:
with such agonies and afi'eetion as would have grieved the hardest heart in
the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they
were not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's
tether, who immediately let them know that the five men, who were to
fetch them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives. When they
had done, and the fright the women were in was a little over, the men went
to work, and the Spaniards came and helped them; and in a few horns
they had built them every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart;
for those they had already were crowded with their tools, household stuff,
and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest oii', and the
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that
they continued separated as before; and thus my island was peopled in
three places, and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be built. '

' And here it is very well worth observing that, as it oflen happens in
the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are, in such a disposition
of things, I cannot say), the two honest fellows had the two worst wives;
and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for
nothing, and neither seemed born to do themselves good, nor any one else,
had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives; not that the first
two were bad wives, as to their temper or humour, for all the five were
most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than
wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or
industrious, or alike cleanly and neat. Another observation I must make.
to the honour of a diligent application on one hand, and to the disgrace of
a slothful, negligent, idle temper on the other, that when I came to the
place, and viewed the several improvements, plantings, and management of

the several little colonies, the two men had so far ontgone the three, that
ass0! nomsox 0311801

therewasnocompsrison. fieyhedindeedbothof-themasmnchground
hidont foroomastheywmtedandthemssonwasheceusesooosdingto
myrule,nsture diotetedthntitwsstonopurposetosowmorsoomthan-
theywsnted;butthedifi'ereneeofthe culfimfiomofthe plantingctthe
{mmdindeedofeverythingelsewsseesytobeseenatfirstvim
Thefiomenhadinnumersbleyoungtreesplantedabouttheirhuhso
thatwhenyouosmetotheplsce,nothingwsstobeseenbutewood; mid.
thoughtheyhadtwieehedtheirplsntsfion demolishedonoehytheirown
countrymen, and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its pm yet
theyhadrestomdsllsgnimnndeverythingwasthrivingendflourishing
abontthem; theyhadgrepesplantedinorder,sndmsnsgedfikesvineye1d,
thoughtheyhsdthemselvesneverseensnythingofthetkind;snd,.hy
theirgoodorderingtheirvineetheirgrspeswereasgoodageinaslsnyof
the others. Theyhad also found themselves out a retrestin the thickest
part0fthewoods,where,thoughtherewasnotenatursl oeve,asIhad
found, yettheymsde one with incessant lshourof their hands, and where,
when the mischief which followed happened, they securedtheirwives and
children so as they could never be found; they having, by sticking innu-
merable stakes and poles of the wood which," I said, grew so readily,
made the grove impassableexceptinsome planes, whentheyelimbed npto
get over the outsidepertsnd then went on by wayeoftheirownlesving. _
Astothethreerepmbetes,astustlycsllthmthoughtheyweremuoh
civilized by their settlement oomperedto what they were before, andwers
notsoquandsomehsvingnotthesameopportnnity;yetoneoftheoertsin
companions of sprofligate mind never left them, sndthstwsstheiridle--
ness. Itisuuetheyphntedcomsndmedefenhes;hut Solomon'swords
were never better verified than in them, "Iwent hythe vineyardof the
slothful, and it was all overgrown with thorns:" for when the Spaniards
cametoviewtheir orop,theyoonldnotseeitinsomeplsoesforweeds,the
hedgehsdseveral gapsinihwherethewildgoetshadgotinandestenup
the com; perhaps here and there a deed hushwas crammed in, to- stop
themout forthepreeent, but it was only shuttingthe sinus-door afier the
steedwas stolen, Whereas, when theylooked on the colony of thefother-
two,therewastheveryfaeeofindustrynudsuooessuponalltheydid;
thmwssnotsweedtobeseenindlthdrwmorugspinmyoftheir'
hedges; andthey, on the other hand, verified Solomons words innnother
P1808,"thstthediligenthnndmnk_ethrich';" forwerythinggreynnd

thrived, and theyhadplentywithinnndwithout; theyhadlmoreteme
ass
cattle than the others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet
more pleasure and diversion too.

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly within
doors; and having learned the English ways of dressing and cooking from
one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board the
ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals very nicely and well; whereas
the others could not be brought to understand it; but then the husband,
who, as I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands
of the three wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish
and birds; in a word, anything but labour, and they fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well and comfortably, and the slothful hard and beggarly:
and so, I believe, generally speaking. it' is all over the world

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened before,
either to them or to me; and the origin of the story was this :--Ea.rly one
morning, there came on shore five or six canoes of Indians or savages, call
them which you please, and there is no room to doubt they came upon the
old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but that part was now so familiar
to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not concern themselves
about it, as I did: but having been made sensible, by their experience, that
their only business was to lie concealed, and that if they were not seen by
any of the savages, they would go off again quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the least notion of there being any inhabitants in
the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they had nothing to
do but to give notice to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and
not show themselves, only placing a scout in a. proper place, to give notim
when the boats went to sea again.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all these
measures, and made it known among the savages that there were inhabit-
ants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of almost the whole
colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off, the Spaniards
peeped abroad again; and some of them had the curiosity to go to the
place where they had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to
their great surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying fast
asleep upon the ground. It was supposed they had either been so gorged
with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were fallen asleep, and
would not stir when the others want, or they had wandered into the woods.
and did not come back in time to be taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly at a

840
1033 what to do. The Spaniard governor, as it happened, was with them, and
his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not what to do. As for,
slaves, they had enough already; and as to killing them, there were none
of them inclined to do that: the Spaniard governor told me, they could
not think of shedding innocent blood; for as to them, the poor creatures
had done them no wrong, invaded none of their property, and they thought
they had no just quarrel against them, to take away their lives. And here
Imust,injustioeto these Spaniards, observe, thatlsttheaoconntsof
Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with
seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were
so universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very good-humoumd, and so
courteous, as these Spaniards: under; to cruelty, they had nothing of it in
their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions;
andyetall ofthemmen ofgreatoourageandspiiit Theirfemperand
calmness had appmd in their bearing the insufi'erable usage of the three
Englishmen; and their justice and humanity appeared now in the ease of -
the savages as above. Alter some consultation, they resolved upon this;
that they would lie still a while longer, till. if possible, these three men
might be gone. But then the governor recolleoted that the three savages
had no boat; and if they were left to rave about the island, they would
certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so they should be
undone that way. Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the
fellows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to awaken them, and take
them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows were strangely
frightened when they were seized upon and bound; and afraid, like the
women, that they should be murdered and eaten. for it seems, those people
think all the world does as they do, in eating men's flesh; but theywem
soon made easy as to that, and away they carried them. . '
It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to the
castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but they carried them first to
the bower, where was the chief of their country work, such as the keeping
the goatathe planting the oorn,&c.; and afterward theycarried them to
the habitation of the two Englishmen. Here they were set to work, though
it was not much they had for them to do '; and whether it was by negligence
in guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend them-
selves, I know not, but one of them ran away, and, taking to thewoods,
they oouldneverhearof him-anymore. lTheyhadgood reason to believe
he got home again soon afier in some other boats or canoes of savages who
841
came on shore-three or four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their
revels as usual, went ofi' in two days' time. This thought terrified them
exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed,
that if this fellow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island, and also {how
few and week they were; for this savage, as observed before, had never
been told, and it was very happy he had not, how many there were, or
where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of their
guns, much less had they shown him any of their other retired places ; such
as the cave in the valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishmen had
made, and the like.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence of
them was, that about two months after this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the north side
of the island, where they never used to come before, and landed, about an
hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation
of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kept. As the
chief Spaniard said, had they been all there, the damage would not have
been so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; but the case
difi'ered now very much, for two men to fifty was too much odds. The two
men had the happiness to discover them about a league ofi', so that it was
above an hour before they landed; and as they landed a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now, having great
reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to
bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them),
to lead them, with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away
with them, to their retired places in the woods, which I have spoken of
above, and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard
farther. In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and
that they had bent their course directly that way, they opened the fences
where the milch cows were kept, and drove them all out; leaving theil
goats to struggle in the woods, whither they pleased, that the savages might
think they were all bred wild; but the rogue who came with them was too
cunning for that, and gave them an account of it all, for they went directly
to the place.

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and goods,

they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with the women.
842
and who was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed,
to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help, and, in the mean time, they
took their anus, and what ammunition they had, and retreated towards the
place in the wood where their wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet
so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages took. They had
not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could see the little army of
their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and, in a moment more,
could see all their huts and household stufi' flaming up together, to their
great grief and mortificafion ; for this was a great loss to them, irretrievable,
indeed, for some time. ' They kept their station for a while, till they found
the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rum-
maging every way, and every place they could think of, in search of prey -
and in particular for the people, of whom now it plainly appeared they had
intelligence.

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where
they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people might come that
way, and they might come too many together, thought it proper to make
another retreat about half a mile farther; believing, as it afterwards
happened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be together. -
Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown part of the

woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and very _ -

large; andinthistreetheybothtooktheirstanding, resolving toseethere
what might offer. They had not stood there long before two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they already had notice where
they stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little way farther.
they espied three more coming after them, and five more beyond them, all
coming the same way; besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a
distance, running another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like
sportsmen heating for their game.

The poor men were. now in great perplexity whether they should stand
and keep their posture, or fly; but, afier a very short debate with them-
selves, they considered, that if the savages ranged the country thus before
help came, they might perhaps find out their retreat in the woods, and then
all would he lost; so they resolved to stand them there, and if they were
mmanytodeelwith,thentheywouldgetup tothe topof thetreefrom
whence they doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as
1311611" ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were landed, which

wasnearfifty,weretoattackthem.
m
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether .they should
fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party.
by which the two and the five that followed would be separated; at
length they resolved to let the first two pass by, unless they should spy
them in the tree, and come to attack them. The first two savages confirmed
them also in this resolution, by turning a little from them towards another
part of the wood; but the three, and the five after them, came forward
directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there.
Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved to take them in
a line as they came ; and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps
the first shot might hit them all three ; for which purpom the man who was
to fire put three or four small bullets into his piece; and having a fair
loop-hole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim,
without being seen, waiting till they were within about thirtyyards of the
tree, so that he could not miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they plainly
saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped from
them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he
should not escape, though they should both fire: so the other stood ready
with his piece, that if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to
have asecond. Butthefirstwas toogoodamarksmantemisshis aim;for
as the savages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, he fired, and
hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the
head; the second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the
body, and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch in
the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of the
second; and being dreadfully frightened, though not so much hurt, sat down
upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than sensible
of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the 'sound a thousand
times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to another,
and the fowls rising from all parts, screaming, and every sort making a
different noise, according to their kind ; just as it was when I fired the first
gun that perhaps was ever shot ofi' in the island

However, all being silent again, and they not knov'ving what the matter
was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where their com-
panions lay in a condition miserable enough Here the poor ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of the same mischief.

a"
stood altogether over the wounded man,ta1king,and,asmaybeaupposed,.
inquiring of him, how he came to be hurt: and-who, it is very rational to, .
believe, toldthem, thataflashoffirefimtand immediatelyafierthat
thunder from their gods, had killed those two and'wounded him. This, I
say,isrational; fornothingismoreoertainthan that, astheysawno man
uearthem. so theyhadneverheardagunin alltheirlives, norsomuchas
heard of agun; neitherlmewthey anything of killingandwoundingat a
distance with fire and bullets: if they had, one might reasonably believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned to view the fate of their fellows,
without some apprehensions of their own. -

Our two men, as they confessed to me, were grieved to be obliged tokill
so manypoor creatures,whohadnonotion oftheirdanger; yethaving them
all thus in their power, and the first having loaded hispiece again, resolved to
let fly both together among them ; and singling out, by agreement, which to
aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very much wounded, four of them;
the fifih, frightened even to death, though not hurt, fell with the met; so
that our men, seeing them all fall together, thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men come
boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns, which was a
mug step; and they were under some surprise when they came'to the
place, and found no less than four of them alive, and of them two very
little hurt, and one not at all.' This obliged them to fell upon them with the
stocks of their muskets; and first they made sure of the runaway savage,
that had been the cause of all the mischief, and of'another that was hurt in -
the knee, and put them out of their pdn; then the man that was not hurt '
at all, came and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and
made piteous moans to thembygeflures andsignafor hislife,butcould
not say one word to them that they could understand. However, they,
made signs to himto sit down at the foot 0". he hard by; and one'ofthe
Englishmen, with a piece of rope-yarn, which he hadnby great chance in his
pocket, tiedhistwo handsbehind him, and there theyleft him; andwith
what speed they could, made after the other "70, which were gone before,
fearing they, or any more of them, should find the way to their covered
placeinthewoodawheretheirwives, andthefewgoodstheyhadleft.lay.
They came onoein sight of the two men, but it was at'a great distance}
however,theyhadthe satisfactionto see them cross over availeytow'ar'ds
theseaquitethecontrarywayfromthatwhichledtotheirretreat,.whiah :
they were afraid of; and being satisfiedwith thatthey went baakto'tb'a - '

' 345 .I." AND some

we where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered by
his comrades, for he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which
they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the me;

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what course
to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what number; so they
resolved to go away to the place where their wives were, to see if all was
well there, and to make them easy. These were infi'ight enough. tobe sure;
for though the sames were their own countrymen, yet they were most ter-
ribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge they had of
them. When they came there, they found the savages had been in the wood,
and very near that place, but had not found it; for it was indeed inacces-
sible, from the trees standing so thick, unless the persons seeking it had
been directed by those that knew it, which these did not; they found,
therefore, everything very safe, only the women in a terrible fright. While
they were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come
to their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and Friday's father,
were gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that
were kept there, in case the savages should have loved over to that side of
the country, but they did not spread so far. With the seven Spaniards
came one of the three savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly;
and with them also came the savage whom the Englishman had left bound
hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they came that way, saw the
slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along
with them; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they
had the two others who were left when the third ran away.

Theprisoners now began to be a burden to them; and they were so
afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them all,
believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so for their own pre-
servation. However, the chief of the Spaniards would not consent to it, but
ordered, for the present, that they should be sent out of the way, to my old
cave in the valley, and he kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them.
and have food for their subsistence, which was done; and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged, that
they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but taking five
of the Spaniards, and themselves, with four muskets and a pistol among
them, and two stout quarter-stews, away they went in quest of the savages.

And first they came to the tree where the men lay that had been killed;
us
butitweseeeyto see that some more of the savages had been theater..-
theyhndattemptedtecarrytheirdeadmeneway,end had dragged two 0!
them a good way, but had given it over. From thenos theyadvsnoed to the
firstrising groundwhere they had stood and seentheir camp destroyed,.
and where they hedthe mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved, though
with all possible caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation;
but, a little before they come thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they
sawplainlythesavegesallembarkedag'sinin their oanoes,in order to be
gone. Theyseemed sorryatfirstthat there was nowaytocomeatthem,
to give them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, they were very well
satisfied to be rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being new twice ruined, and all their improve-
ments destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them to rebuild, and
assist them with needful supplies. Their thme countrymen, who were not
yet noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet as soon as
they heard of it (for they, living remote eastward, knew nothing of the
matter till all was over), come and offered their help and assisteme, and
did, very friendly, work for several days to restore their habitation, and
make necessaries for them. And thus in a little time they were set upon
their legs again. -

About two days after this they had the farther satisfaction of seeing
three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and, at some distance
from them, two drowned men,by which they hedreason to believe that
theyhadmetwithastorm atsea, whiehhad overset some of them; tor it
had blown very'hsrd the night after they went 011'. However, as some
might misoarry, so, on the other hand. enough of them eseeped toinform
themst, sswell ofwhat theyhad done as ofwhethadhappenedtethem;
and to whet them on to another enterprise of the same nature, whiohithey,
it seems, resolved to attempt, with suflioient force to carry all before them;
for except what the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say
little of it of their own knowhdge, for they never saw one man; and the
fellow being killed that had affirmed it. thev had no other witness to confirm
it to them. .

Itwasfive orsixmonthsafterthis before they heard any more ofthe
savageeinwhiehtime onrmenw'ereinhopes they had either forgot-their
fomerbedlmhorgiven overhopes ofbetter; when,ona sudden. they
wereinvededwith amostformidable fleet ofnoless then eight-and-twenty

It?
canoes, full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like engines of war; and they brought such numbers with
them, that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of
the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to do. In
the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed was their only
safety before, and would be much more so now, while the number of their
enemies would be so great, they resolved, first of all, to take down the huts
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats to the
old cave; because they supposed the savages would go directly thither, as
soon as it was day, to play the old game over again, though they did not
new land within two leagues of it. In the next place they drove away all
the flocks of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged
to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance ofinhabitants any-
where ss was possible; and the next morning early they posted themselves,
with all their force, at the plantation of the two men, to wait for their
coming. As they guessed, so it happened: these new invaders, leaving
their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging along the shore,
directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred and fifiy, as near
as our men could judge. Our army was but small indeed; but, that which
was worse, they had not arms for all their number. The whole account, it
seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen,
old Friday, the three slaves taken with the women, who proved very
faithful, and three other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards. To arm
these, they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five
muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from the mutinous
seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old halberts.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee; but they had
eachahalbert, oralongstafillikeaquartenstafilwithagreatspikeot'iron
fastened into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every one of
our men had a hatchet tho of the women could not be prevailed upon
but they would come into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, which
the Spaniards had taken from the savages when the first action happened.
which I have spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another; and
the women had hatchets too.

The chief Spaniard, whom I described so ofien, commanded the whole;
and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most

daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages came forward like
3480" 303111308 080803.

110"; andourmen, whiohwastheworstoftheirfate,had no advantagein'
their situation; only that Will Atldns, who now prdved a most useful
fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as
anadvsnoedguariwithorderstoletthefirst ofthempssshymndthenfire.
intothemiddleofthem,andaseoonashe had firedtomakehisretreatas
nimblyashecould round a part ofthe wood, and so come in hehindthe
Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees before them. ~

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way in
heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty at
them pass byhim; then seeing therest come in averythiokthmnghe
ordersthreeofhismentofirehavinglosdedtheirmusketswithsixor
seven bullets apiece, about as big as large pistol bullets. How many they
killed or wounded they knew not, but the consternation and surprise was
inexpressibls among the savages ; they were frightened to the last degree to
hear such a dreadful noise. and see their men killed. and others hurt. but
see nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins
andhisother three let flyagain amongthe thickest of them; and inless
thanaminnte,thefirstthreebeing loadedagaimgave them a thirdvolley.

HadWillAtkins andhismen retired immediately,assoonastheyhad
findastheywemordmdto do, or hadthe rest of thebodyheenathand,
to have poured in their shot continually, the savages had been effectually
routed; for the terror that was among them came principally hour this,
that they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and could
see nobody that hurt them. But Will Atkins, staying to load again,
discovered the cheat: some of the savages who were at a distance spying
them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at
them also, two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself. and killed one of his fellow
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did Mauls one Spaniard, and
one of the Indian slaves who came with the women. This slave was a
most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five of them
with his own hand, having no weapon but one of the armed'staves and
a hatchet. -

Ourmenheing thus hard laid at,Atkinswounded,andtwo other men
killed,retreawd to arising ground in the wood; andths Spaniardsaflaer
firing three volleys upon them, retreated also; for their number was so
great. and theywere so desperate, that though above fifiy ofthemwus

killedand morethanas many wounded,yettheycame onintheteeth
m
of our men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and
it was observed that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were
made outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madman.

When our men retreamd, they left the Spaniard and the Englishman
that were killed behind them : and the savages, when they came up to
them, killed them over again in a wretched manner, breaking their arms,
legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden swords, like true savages; but
finding our men were gone, they did not seem inclined to pursue them, but
drew themselves up in a ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted
twice, in token of their victory; after which, they had the mortificafion
to see several of their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together upon
a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have had them
march and charge again all together at once: but the Spaniard replied--
" Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men fight; let them alone
till morning; all the wounded men will be stiff and sore with their wounds.
and faint with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to
engage." This advice was good: but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That
is true, seignior, and so shall I too; and that is the reason I would go on
while I am warm."--" Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you
have behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you if you
cannot come on ; but I think it best to stay till morning: " so they waiwd.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages in
great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a great noise and
hurry among them where they lay, they atterwards resolved to fell upon
them in the night; especially if they could come to give them but one
volley before they were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to
do; for one of the Englishmen in whose quarter it was where the fight
began, led them round between the woods and the sea-side westward, and
then turning short south, they came so near where the thickest of them
lay, that, before they were seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them,
and did dreadful execution upon them; in half a minute more, eight others
fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity, that abun-
dance were killed and wounded; and all this while they were not able
to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves into three bodies, and molved to fall in among them
all together. They had in each body eight persons, that is to say, twenty-

sso
two men, and the two women, who, by the way, fought desperately. They
divided the fire-arms equally in each party, as Well as the halberts and
staves. They would have had the women kept bmk, but they said'they
were resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed their
little army, they marched out from among the trees, and came up to the
teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could; the
savages stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the
noise of our men shouting from three quarters together. They would have
foughtit' theyhadseenus; forassoonasweeameneuenoughtobeseen,
some arrows were shot, and poor old Ih'iday was wounded, though not
dangerously. But our men gave them no time, but running up to them,
fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the buttrends of their
muskets, their swords, armed slaves, and hatchets, and laid about them
sowell, that,in a word, theysetup a dismal screamingandhowling,
flying to save their lives which way soever they oould.

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally wounded
in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them; the rest, being
frightened out of their wits, secured through the woods and over the hills,
with all the speed that fear and nimble feet could help them to ; and as we
did not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got all together to the
sea~side, where they landed, and where their canoes lay. But their disaster
was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening
from the see, so that it was impossible for them to go ofif; nay, the storm
continuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that it
required infinite toil to get them off; and some of- them were even dashed
to pieces against the beach. Our men, though glad of their victory, yet
got little rest that night; but having refreshed themselves as well as they
could, they resolved to march to that part of the island where the savages
were fled,and seewhat posture theywerein. This neeessarilyled them
over the place where the fight had been, and where they found several of
the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past meovering life; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous minds, for a truly great man, though
obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his
misery. However, there was no need to give any orders in this case; for
their own savages, who were their servants, despatched these poor creatures .
with their hatehets. '

At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable
351
remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about a hundred
still ; their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, with their knees
up towards their mouth, and the head put between the two hands, leaning
down upon the knees. 1 When our men came within two musket-shots oi
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without bail,
to alarm them; this he did, that by their countenance he might know what
to expect, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so heartily
beaten as to be discouraged, and so he might manage accordingly. This
stratagem took : for as soon as the savages heard the first gun, and saw the
flash of the second, they started up upon their feet in the greatest con-
sternation imaginable; and as our men advanced swiftly towards them,
they all ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise,
which our men did not understand, and had never heard before; and thus
they ran up the hills into the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and they
had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that this might
probably have been the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes
as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so many and so often, as would
quite desolate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore, who,
notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved the best coun-
sellor in this case: his advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and
step in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity
of ever returning any more to plague the island. They consulted long
about this; and some were against it for fear of making the wretchea fly
to the woods and live there desperate, and so they should have them to
hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have
their plantations continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in
short, he reduced to a life of continual distress.

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hundred men
than with a hundred nations; that as they must destroy their boats, so
they must destroy the men, or be all of them destroyed themselves. In
a word, he showed them the necessity of it so plainly, that they all came
into it; so they went to work immediately with the boats, and getting some
dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire.
but they were so wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned
the upper part, that it soon made them unfit for use at sea '

When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them came

running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could to our men,
3520! ROWE 0313803

kneeled down and cried, "0a. 0a, Waramokca," and some other words
of their language, which none of the others understood anything of ; but
as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand
they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and
never come there again But our men were now satisfied that they had
no way to preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually
to prevent any of these people from ever going home again: depending
upon this, that if even so much as one of them got back into their country
to tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, letting them know that
they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and
destroyed every one that the storm had not destroyed before; at the sight
of which, the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our people
heard plain enough, after which they ran about the island like distrachd
men, so that, in a word, our men did not really know what at first to
do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider
that while they made those wople thus desperate, they ought to have
kept a good guard at the same time upon their plantations; for though
it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the Indians did not find
out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in
the valley, yet they found out my plantation at the bower, and pulled
it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about it; trod all the
corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe.
and did our men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one
farthing's-worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they
were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for
as they were too nimble of foot' for our people when they found them
single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being surrounded
with their numbers. The best was, they had no weapons; for though they
had bows, they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any; nor
had they any edge-tool among them. The extremity and distress they
were reduced to was great, and indeed deplorable; but, at the same time,
our men were also brought to very bad circumstances by them, for though
their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and
their harvest spoiled, and what to do, or which way to turn themselves.
they knew not. The only refuge they had now, was the stool: of cattle
theyhadinthevalley by the cave, and some little corn which grew
these, and' the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and

are A a
his comrades, were now reduced to two; one of them being killed by
an arrow, which struck him on the side of-his head, just under the
temples, so that he never spoke more ; and it was very remarkable that
this was the same barbarous fellow that out the poor savage Slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was
at anytime, after I first discovered the grains of bmley and rice, and got into
the manner of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle; for now
they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves upon the island, which would
devour everything they could come at, yet could be hardly come at
themselves.

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they con-
cluded was, that they would, if possible, drive the savages up to the farther
part of the island, south-west, that if any more came on shore they might
not find one another; then, that they would daily hunt and harass them,
and kill as many of them as they could come at, till they had reduced their
number; and if they could at last tame them, and bring them to anything,
they would give them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live upon
their daily labour. In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified
them with their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at
on- Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear. So
dreadfully frightened were they that they kept out of sight farther and
farther; till, at last, our men following them, and almost every day killing
or wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods or hollow places so
much, that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food; and
many were afierwards found dead in the woods, without any hurt, abso-
lutely starved to death.

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity moved
them, especially the generous-minded Spaniard governor; and he proposed.
if possible, to take one of them alive, and bring him to understand what
they. meant. so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go among them
and see if they might be brought to some conditions that might be depended
upon, to save their lives and do us no harm.

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being weak
and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a prisoner-
-He was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink; but finding
himself kindly used, and victuals given to him, and no violence ofl'exed

354
unheetlastgrewtmoteble,endoametohimselPS Theyoflzenhmughteld
Fridaytotelktohim,who always toldhimhow kind theothers would.
betothemel1;thattheywou1dnotoflymvetheirfimhntgivethmn v
partoftheislendtolivein,providedtheywonldgivesetisfnnfionthstthey"
wouldkeepintheirownhounds, and noteomeheyondittoinjureor
prejudice others; and that theyshonldhaveeomgiventhmntoplantand
makeitgrowfmthehheedendeomebreedgiventhequrtheirpreeent
subsistence: endoldFridaybede the fellowgoandtelkwiththemtu
ofhisoountrymen,>>andseewhattheysaidtoit;assnfingthemthst,if
theydidnotngreeimmedistely,theyshonldheslldestroyed.
Thepouwretcheethmnghlyhmbleiendredneedinnumbertoehout
thhty-sevemclosedwith thempomlatthefirstofi'ermndheggedtohsve
somefoodgiventhem;nponwhioh,twelve8psnimdsandtonnglishmen,
well medwfihthreehdian slaves and old Friday,marchedtothepleee
where theywene. ThethreeIndisn slaves een'iedthem-alsrgeqnantityof
memfieeboflednptocakesenddfledinthemmdthxeelive
goats;and theywere orderedtogotothesideofshilhwhezetheysat
down, ate their provisions very thankfully, and were the most finithfnl
fellows to their words that could be thought of; for, except when they
came'tobegvictnels and directions, theynever came out of theirhormds;
mdthaetheyfivedwhenImmetotheislmdendemttoseethem.
Theyhadtsnghtthmnhothtophntwmmekebmdbreedtamegoets,
and milk them: they wanted nothihg but wives in order for'them soon
tohecomeanation. Theywuemnfinedmanwkoflmisunounded
fithfighmehhefihdthmmdlyingplaintowerdstheseeheforethefl,
ontheseuth-eestoomsroftheislmd. Theyhadlandenenghenditwee
Verygoodandfrnitfnl; ebmtamflemdahflfbmedandthreeorfonr
mileeinlength. Oumenmnghtthemmmakewmdmspedegsuchee
Imadeformyself, midgeveamong them twelvehstchetsendthreeerfonr
knive83endtheretheylived,themostsubjected,innocentcreeturesthat
everwereheerdof. I ' .' '
Afiuthistheeolonyenjoyedaperfeettranufllitynvithrespecttothe
Bavagesfilllcametorefisitthemwhiohwesabouttwoyeerseflasfiot
butthatnowmdtheu-semecenoesofsevagesemeonshorefortheir
triumphs], unnatural feasts; but as they were of sewn] natiomgmnd
Wmhedmuhmflofthwethatmmeheforgorthemsonoiiflthey'
did not make anysearch of inquiry after their countrymen; and if they
Mitwouldhavehenveryhsrd'tohevefound'themont ': {-
s55

-
Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all that happened to them
till my return, at least that was worth notice. The Indians were wonder-
fully civilized by them, and they frequently went among them; but they
forbid, on pain of death, any one of the Indians coming to them, because
they would not have their settlement betrayed again. One thing was very
remarkable, viz. that they taught the savages to make wicker-work, or
baskets, but they soon outdid their masters: for they made abundance of
ingenious things in wicker-work, particularly baskets, sieves, bird-cages,
cupboards, &c.; as also chairs, stools, beds, couches, being very ingenious at
such work when they were once put in the way of it.

My coming was a particular relief to these people, because we furnished
them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, and all things of that
kind which they could want. With the help of those tools, they were so
very handy that they came at last to build up their huts or houses, very
handsomely, raddling or working it up like basket-work all the way round
This piece of ingenuity, although it looked very odd, was an exceeding good
fence, as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our men were
so taken with it, that they got the Indians to come and do the like for
them; so that when I came to see the two Englishman's colonies, they
looked, at a. distance, as if they all lived like bees in a-hive.

As for Will Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, useful.
and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket-work as, I
believe, was never seen; it was one hundred and twenty paces round on
the outside, as I measured by my steps ; the walls were as close worked as
a basket, in panels or squares of thirty-two in number, and very strong,
standing about seven feet high; in the middle was another not above
twenty-two paces round, but built stronger, being octagon in its form, and
in the eight corners stood eight very strong posts; round the top of which
he laid strong pieces, knit together with wooden pins, 'from which he raised
a pyramid for a handsome roof of eight rafters, joined together very well,
though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself
too, out. of the old iron that I had left there. Indeed, this fellow showed
abundance of ingenuity in several things which he had no knowledge of:
he made him a forge, with a pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he
made himself charcoal for his work; and he formed out of the iron crows a
middling good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he made many
things, but especially hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts, and hinges. But to
return to the house: after he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he

:56
worked it up between the rafters with basket-work, so firm, and thatched
that over again so ingeniously with rice-straw, and over that a large leaf of
amewhiohcoveredthetop,thathis house was as dry as if ithad been
tiled or slated. He'owned, indeed, that the savages had made the basket-
work for him. The outer circuit was covered as a lean-to all round this
inner apartment, and long' rafters lay from the thirty-two angles to the top
posts of the inner house, being about twenty feet distant, so that there was

uspace like a walk within the outer wicker-wall and without the inner,
near twenty feet wide.

The inner place he partitioned 06 with the same wicker-work, but much
fairer,en and divided into six apartments, so that he had six rooms on ether,
and out of every one of these there was a. door: first into the entry, or
coming into the main tent, another door into the main tent, and another
doorintothe spaceorwalkthatwasroundit; sothatwalkwasalso
divided into six equal parts, which served not only for a retreat, but to
store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six
spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments the
outer circle had were thus ordered: As soon as you were in at the door of
the outer circle, you had a. short passage straight before you to the door of
the inner house; but on either side was a wicker partition, and a door in
it, by which you went first into a large room, or storehouse, twenty feet
wide and about thirty feet long, and through that into another not quite so
long; so that in the outer circle were ten handsome rooms, six of which
were only to be come at through the apartments of the inner tent, and
served as closets or retiring-rooms to the respective chambers of the inner
circle ; and four large warehouses, or barns, or what you pleas to call them,
which went through one another, two on either hand of the passage; that
led through the outer door to the inner tent Such a piece >> of basket-work,
I believe, was never seen in the world, nor a house or tent so neatly con-
trived, much less so built In this great bee-hive lived the three families,
that is to say, Will Atkins and his companion; the third was killed, but
hiswife remainedwith three children-and the other two were not at all
backwardtogivethewidowherfullshareofeverythingImeanasto
their corn, milk, grapes, &c. and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle
on the shore; so that they all lived well enough; though, it was true, they '.
were not so industrious as the other two, as has been observed already.

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz. that as for religion, I do

notknowthattherewas anythingof-thstkindamongthexn; theyofieu,
857
indeed, put one another in mind that there was a God, by the very common
method of seamen, swearing by His name: nor were their poor ignorant
savage wives much better for having been married to Christians, as we
must call them; for as they knew very little of God themselves, so they
were utterly incapable of entering into any discourse with their wives about
a God, or to talk anything to them concerning religion

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had made
from them was, that they had taught them to speak English pretty well;
and most of their children, who were near twenty in all, were taught to
speak English too, from their first learning to speak, though they at first
spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers. None of these'
children were above six years old when I came thither, for it was not much
above seven years since they had fetched these five savage ladies over;
they had all children, more or less: the mothers were all a good sort of
well-governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one
another, mighty observant, and subject to their masters (I cannot call them
husbands), and lacked nothing but to be well instructed in the Christian
religion, and to be legally married; both which were happily brought
about afterwards by my means, or at least in consequence of my coming
among them. .

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty much
of my runagate Englishmen, I must say something of the Spaniards, who
were the main body of the family, and in whose story there are some inci-
dents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they had
no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that country; that
they were a poor, miserable, dejected handful of people; that even if means
had been put into their hands, yet they had so abandoned themselves to
despair, and were so sunk under the weight of their misfortune, that they
thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a grave and sensible man,
told me he was convinced they were in the wrong; that it was not the part
of wise men to give themselves up to their misery, but always to take hold
of the helps which reason offered, as well for present support as for future
deliverance: he told me that grief was the most senseless, insignificant
passion in the world, for that it regarded only things past, which were
generally impossible to be recalled, or to be remedied, but hadno views of

thingstocomaandhadno share inanythingthatlookedlikedeliverance
858
but rather added to the afiliction than proposed a remedy; and upon this

he repeated a Spanish proverb, which, thoughI cannot repeat in the same

words that he spoke it inyetInmamberImade it into an English proverb

of my own, thus :--
- In men to be troubled,

Is to have your houble doubled.

He then ran on in remarks upon all the little improvements I had made
in my solitude: my unwearied application, as he called it; and how I had
made a. condition, which in its circumstances was at first much worse than .
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was, even, now when they
were all together. He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen had a
greater presence of mind. in their distresathan any people that ever he
met with; that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were the' worst
men in theworldto strugglewithmisfortunee; for that theirfirst step in
dangers, after the common efi'orts were over, was to despair, lie down under
it, and die, without musing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.

I told him. their case and mine difi'ered exceedingly; that they were cast
upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of food, or present sus-
tenance fill theycould provideforit; that,it was trualhadthisfurther
disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the supplies I had
providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the
ship on share, was suchahelp as would have encouraged any creature in
the world to have applied himself as I had done. " Seignior," says the
Spaniard, "had we poor Spaniardsbeeninyourcasaweshouldneverhavo
got half those things out of the ship, as you did: nay," says he, "we should
never have foundmeanstohavegotaraftto carrythem,ortohavegottha
raft on shore without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done
if any of us had been alone!" Well, Idesired him to abate his compli-
ments, andgo onwiththe historyofthair coming on shomwherethey'
landed He told me they unhappily landed at a place where there were '
people without provisions; whereas, had they had the common sense to put
ofi' to sea again,andgonetoanotherislandalittlefurther,theyhadfound
provisions, though without people: there being an island that way, as they
had been told, where there were provisions, though no'people--that is to
58y,thatthe Spaniards oil'finidsdhsdfi'equenflybeentheraandhsd
filledthe islandwithgoats andhogs at severaltimes, where theyhadhred
in such multitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls were in suchplenty,
that theyoould have been in no want offleshthoughtheyhadfoundno ,

. ass
bread; whereas, here, they were only sustained with a few roots and herbs
which they understood not, and which had no substance in them, and which
the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough; and they could treat them no
better, unless they would turn cannibals, and eat men's flesh.

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize the
savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in the ordinary
way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust,
that they, who came there for assistance and support, should attempt to set
up for instructors of those that gave them food; intimating. it seems, that
none should set up for the instructors of others but those who could live
without them. They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were
driven to ; how sometimes they were many days without any food at all,
the island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that lived
more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the necessaries
of life than they had reason to believe others were in the same part of
the world: and yet they found that these savages were less ravenous and
voracious than those who had better supplies of food. Also they added.
they could not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness
the governing providence of God directs the events of things in this world,
which, they said, appeared in their circumstances: for if, pressed by the
hardships they ware under, and the barrenness of the country where they
were, they had searched after a better to live in, they had then been out of
the way of the relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they lived amongst
expected them to go out with them into theirwars; and, it wastrue, that
as they had fire-arms with them, had they not had the disaster to lose their
ammunition, they could have been serviceable not only to their friends, but
have made themselves terrible both to friends and enemies; but being with-
out powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in reason
decline to go out with their landlords to their wars; so when they came
into the field of battle, they were in a worse condition than the savages
themselves, for they had neither hows nor arrows, nor could they use those
the savages gave them. So they could do nothing but stand still and be
wounded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy; and
then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them ,; and they
would ofien drive a whole little army before them with those halberds, and
sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their muskets. But, for all this,

they were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger from
sea .
Mm8,tin atlasttheyfoundthe wayto mekethemselveslargetalgetl
of wood, which they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they
knew 110th these covmd them from the arrows ofthe savages: that.
notwithstanding these. they were sometimes in great danger; and five of
them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the savages,
which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner, that is to say,
the Spaniardwhomlnelieved. Atfirst they thought he had been killed;
but when they afierwards heard he was taken prisoner, they were under
the greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have all ventured their
lives to have rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of their
company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they were come to
themselves, all but him whom they thought had been dead ; and then they
made their way with their halberds and pieces, standing close together
in a line, through a body of above a thousand savages, beefing down
all that came in their way, got the victory over their enemies, but to their
great sorrow, because it was with the loss of their friend, whom the other
party, finding alive, carried oil', with some others, as I gave an account
before. They described, most affectionately, how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who they
thought had been devomd bywild beasts of theworst kind, wild men;
and yet, how more and more they were surprised with the account he gave
them ofhiserrand, andthattherewasa Christian in anyplace um,
much more one that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute
to their deliverance. _

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
I sent them, and at the appearance of leaves of breed--things they had
not seen since their coming to that miserable place ; how often they crossed
it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what a reviving cordial
itwastotheirspiritstotasteit,esalsotheotherthingslhadsentfortheir,
supply; and, after all, they would have told me something of the joy they
wereinstthe sightof about and pflotamcerrythem awaytotheperson
andplace from whence allthese neweomforts came. Butit wasimpossihle
to exprea it by words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them. to
unbecoming extravagant", they had no way to duct-lbs them, but'by
telling me they bordered upon lunacy. having no way to give vent to
their passions suitable 'to the sense that was upon them; that in some '
it worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them, through

my
a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark mad, and others
immediately faint. This discourse extremely afl'ecmd me, and called in
my mind mam ecstasy when he met his father, and the poor people's
ecstasy when I took them up at sea afier their ship was on fire; the joy
of the mate of the ship when he found himself delivered in the place
where he expected to perish; and my own joy, when, after twenty-eight
years' captivity, I found a good ship ready to carry me to my own country.
All these things made me more sensible of the relation of these poor men,
and more afiected with it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, 1
must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the condition in
which I left them. It was their opinion, and mine too, that they would be
troubled no more with the savages, or if they were, they would be able to
cut them off, if they were twice as many as before; so they had no concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
whom I call governor, about their stay in the island: for as I was not
come to carry any of them ofi', so it would not be just to carry off some
and leave others, who, perhaps, would be unwilling to stay if their strength
was diminished. 0n the other hand, I told them I came to establish them
there, not to remove them; and then I let them know that I had brought
with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been at a great charge
to supply them with all things necessary, as well for their convenience as
their defence; and that I had such and such particular persons with me,
as well to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular necessary
employments which they were bred to, being artificers, to assist them in
those things in which at present they were in want

They were all together when I talked thus to them, and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by one,
if they had entirely forget and buried the first animosities that had been
among them, and would shake hands with one another, and engage in a
strict friendship and union of interest, that so there might be no more
misunderstandings and jealousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said they
had met with affliction enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough
to make them all friends; that, for his part, he would live and die with
them, and was so far from designing anything against the Spaniards, that
he owned they had done nothing to him but what his own mad humour

maue necessary, and what he would have done, and perhaps worse, in their
ass0!' nosmsox WI.

case; audtbathewould askthempardonifIdesireditforthefoolish
andbrutishthingshehaddone tothem,audwasverywillinganddesirous
oflivingintermsofentirefiiendshipandunionwiththem. andwould
doanythingthatlayinhis powerto convincethem of it; andasforgoing
to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these twenty years.

The Spaniards saidtheyhadindeed, at firstdisarmed and excluded
Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct-as they had let
me know, and they appealed to me for the necessity they were under to
do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great.
fight they had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had
showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the general interest of
them all, that they had forgotten all that was passed, and thought he
merited as much to be trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries
as any affirm; that they had testified their satisfaction in him, by I
committing the command to him next to the governor himself; and as
theyhadentireconfideneeinhim andallhis counhymemsotheyacknow.
lodged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that honest
men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most heartily embraced
the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they would never have any
interest separate PSrom one another. '

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed
the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a splendid feast.
I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore and drese our
dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted We brought
on shore six pieces of good beef and four phoes of pork, out of the
ship's provisions, with our punchbowl, and materials to fill it; and, in
particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of
English beer; things that neither the Spaniards nor the English had
tested for many years, and which it may be supposed they were .very
glad of. The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the
cooks roasted; and three of them were sent, covered up close, on board
the ship to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore,
aswedidwiththeiraaltmeatfromonboard.

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I brought my
cargo of goods; wherein, that there might be no dispute about dividing-I
showed them that there was a suficieucy for them all. desiring that they
might all take an equal quantity, when made up, of the goods that were
for wearing. .As, first I distributed linen sufiicient to make everyone

868
of them four shirts, and, at the Spanisrd's request, eastwards made them
up six; these were exceeding comfortable to them, having been what they
had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them. I allotted
the thin English stufl's, which I mentioned before, to make every one
a light coat, like a frock, which I judged fittest for the heat of the season,
cool and loose; and ordered that whenever they decayed, they should
make more, as they thought fit; the like for pumps, shoes, stackings,
hats, <<he. I cannot express what pleasure sat upon the countenances of
all these poor men, when they saw the care I had taken of them, and
how well I had furnished them. They told me I was a father to them;
and that having such a correspondent as I was in so remote a pert of the
world, it would make them forget that they were left in a desolate place;
and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the place without my
consent.

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me, par-
ticularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most
necessary people; but, above all. my general artificer, than whom they
could not name anything that was more useful to them; and the tailor,
to show his concern for them, went to work immediately, and, with my
leave, made them every one a shirt, the first thing he did; and, what was
still more, he taught the women not only how to saw and stitch, and use the
needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for their husbands, and for
all the rest. As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they
were; for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made
clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kind. But to let them see how nature
made artificers at first, I carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins' basket-
house, as I called it; and they both owned they never saw an instance of
such natural ingenuity before, nor anything so regular and so handily built.
at least of its kind ; and one of them, when he saw it. after musing a good
while, turning about to me, " I am sure," says he, " that man has no need
of us; you need do nothing but give him tools."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every man
a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no barrows or plough;
and to every separate piece a pickaxe, a crow, a broad axe', and a saw;
always appointing, that as often as any were broken or worn out, they
should be supplied without grudging, out of the general stores that I lefi
behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and all

set
sorts of iron-work, they had without reserve, as they required; for no m
would take more than he wanted, and he must be a fool that would waste
or spoil them on any account whatever; and for the use of the smith, I ledt
two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such,
even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; for now they
could march as I used to do, with a musket upon sub shoulder, if there
was occasion; and were able to fight a. thousand savages, if they had but
some little advantages of situation, which also they could not miss, if they
had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved to
death, and the maid also; she was a sober, well educated, religious young
woman, and behaved so inofi'ensively that every one gave her a good word;
she had, indeed, an unhappy life with us, there being no woman in the ship
but herself, but she bore it with patience. After a while, seeing things so
well ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my island, and con- '
sidering that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the East Indies,
orreason for taking so long avoyagabothofthem cametome, and desired
I would give them leave to remain on the island, and be entered among my
family,as theycalled it. I agreed to this readily; and theyhad alittle
plot of ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses set
up, surrounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like Atkins', adjoining to
his plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had each of them
a room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent like a great storehouse, to lay
their goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two Englishv
men removed their habitation to the same place; and so the island was .
divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards, with old
Friday and the first servants, at my old habitation under the hill, which
was, in a word, the capital city, and where they had so enlarged and
extended their works, as well under as on the outside of the hill, that
they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there
such alittle city in awood, andsohid, inany part ofthe world; for
I verily believe that a thousand men might have ranged the island a month,
and, if they had not known there was such a thing. and looked on purpose
for it, they would not have found it. Indeed, the trees stood so thick and
so close, and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but cutting
them down first could discover the place, except the only two narrow

entrances where they went' in and out could be found, which was not very
' m
easy; one of them was close down at the water's edge, on the side of the
creek, and it was afierwards above two hundred yards to the place: and
the other was up a ladder at twice, as I have already described it; and
they had also a large wood, thickly planted, on the top of the hill,
containing above an acre, which grew space, and concealed the place from
all discovery there, with only one narrow place between two twee, not
easily to be discovered, to enter on that side.

-The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with their wives
and children; three savages that were slaves, the widow and the children
of the Englishman that was killed, the young man and the maid, and,
by the way, we made a wife of her before we went away. There were
besides the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought with me for
them: also the smith, who was a very necessary man to them, especially
as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and my other man, whom I
called Jack-of-all~trades, who was in himself as good almost as twenty
men; for he was not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow,
and before I went away we married him to the honest maid that came with
the youth in the ship I mentioned before.

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say something
of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me out of the ship's
crewwhomItookup atsea. ItistruethismanwasaRoman,and
perhaps it may give ofi'ence to some hereafter, if I leave anything extra-
ordinary upon record of a man whom, before I begin, I must (to set him
out in just colours) represent in terms very much to his disadvantage, in
the account of Protestants; as, first, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
Popish priest; and, thirdly, a hunch Popish priest. But justice demands
of me to give him a due character; and I must say, he was a grave, sober,
pious, and most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity,
and exemplary in almost everything he did. What then can any one say
against being very sensible of the value of such a man, notwithstanding
his profession? though it may be my opinion, perhaps, as well as the
opinion of others who shall read this, that he was mistaken

The first hour that I began to converse with him after he had agreed to
go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly in his
conversation; and he first began with me about religion in the moat
obliging manner imaginable. "Sir," says be, "you have not only under
God (and at that he crossed his breast) saved my life, but you have

sea0? DOWN causes.

admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility
have taken meinwyourfamily,givingmeanopportunityoffreeoon-
vacation. Now, sir, you see by my habit what my profession is, and I
gumbyyournationwhatyoursis;1maythinkitismy'duty,and
doubtless it is so, to use my utmost endeavours, on all occasions, to bring
all the souls I can to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the
Catholic doctrine; but as I am here under your permission, and in your
family,Iambound in justice toyour kindnesaaswellasindeoency and
good manners, to be under your government; and therefore I shall not,
without your leave, enter into any debate on the points of religion in which
we may not agree, further than you shall give me leave."

I told him his carriage was so modest that I could not but acknowledge
it; thatitwas truewe were such peopleastheycall heretios,butthat he
was not the first Catholic I had oonversed with, without falling into
inconveniences, or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that
he should not find himself the worse used for being of a difl'erent opinion
from us, and if we did not converse without any dislike on either side, it
should be his iault, not-ours.

He replied that he thought all our commotion might be easily separated
from disputes; that it was not his business to cap principles with every
man he oonversed with; and that be rather desired me-to converse with
himasa gentleman than as a religionist; and that, if I would give him
leave at any time to discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily
comply with it, and that he did not doubt but I would allow him also to '
defend his own opinions as well as he could; but that, without my leave,
he would not break in upon me with any such thing. He told me further,
thathewouldnotceasetodoallthatbecamehim,inhis office as a priest,
as well as a private Christian, to procure the good of the ship, and the safety
of all that was in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with him,
and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray for us, which he
would do upon all occasions. In this manner we convex-sod; and as he
was of the most obliging, gentlemanlike, behaviour, so he was, if I may be
allowedtosayso, amanofgoodsensei-and, asIbelieve, ofgreatlearning.

He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many extra-
ordinary events of it; of many adventures which had befallen him in the
few years thathe had been abroad in the world; and particularlyit was
very remarkable, that in the voyage he was-now engaged in, hehadthe
misfortunetobefivetimes shippedaud unshipped, and never targets the

m .
place whither any of the ships he was in were at first designed That hi.
first intent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went on board a ship
bound thither at St. Malo; but, being forced into Lisbon by bad weather,
the ship received some damage by running aground in the mouth of the
river Tagus, and was obliged to unload her cargo there; but finding a
Portuguese ship there bound to the Madeiras, and ready to sail, and sup.
posing he should easily meet with a vessel there bound to Martinico, he
went on board, in order to sail to the Msdeiras; but the master of the
Portuguese ship, being but an indifi'erent mariner, had been out of his
reckoning, and they drove to Fayal; where, however, he happened to find
a very good market for his cargo, which was com, and therefore resolved
nottogo to the Madeiras,but to load salt at the Isle of May, and to go
away to Newfoundland He had no remedy in this exigence but to go with
the ship, and had a pretty good voyage as far as the Banks (so they call the
place where they catch the fish), where meeting with a French ship bound
from France to Quebec, and from thence to Martinico, to carry provisions,
he thought he should have an opportunity to complete his first design; but
when he came to Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the vessel pm-
ceeded no further; so the next voyage he shipped himself for France, in the
ship that was burned when we took them up at sea, and then shipped with
us for the East Indies, as I have already said. Thus he had been disap-
pointed in five voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I
shall have occasion to mention further of him.

But I shall not make digression into other men's stories, which have no
relation to my own; so I return to what concerns our affairs in the island.
He came to me one morning (for he lodged among us all the while we were
upon the island), and it happened to be just when I was going to visit the
Englishman's colony, at the furthest part of the island; I say, he came to
me, and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he had for two or
three days desired an opportunity of some discourse with me, which he
hoped would not be displeasing to me, because he thought it might in some
measure correspond with my general design, which was, the prosperity of
my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more than be yet thought
it was, in the way of God's blessing.

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and turning
a little short, " How, sir," said I, " can it he said that we are not in the way
of God's blessing, after such visible assistances and deliverances as we have
seen here, and of which I have given you a large account?"----" If you had

seaOI maniacs 030503.

pleased, sir," said he, with a world of modesty, and yet great readiness. "to
have heard me, you would have found no room to have been displeased,
much less to think so hard of me, that I should suggest that you have not
had wonderful assistences and deliverances ; and I'hope, on your behalf,
that you are in the way of God's blessing, and your design is exceeding
good, and will prosper. But, sir, though it were more so than is even
possible to you, yet there may be some among you that are not equally
right in their actions: and you know, that in the story of the children of
Israel, one Achan in the camp removed God's blessing from them, and
medhis hand so against them, that strand-thirty of them, though not
concerned in the crime, were the objects of divine vengeance, and bore the
weight of that punishment."

I was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told him his inference
was so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so
religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him,
andbegged him to go on; and, in the meantime, because it mined that
whatwehadbothtosaymighttakeup sometime, Itoldhim I was going
to the Englishman's plantations, and asked him to go with me, and we
might discourse of it by the way. He told me he would the more willingly
wait on me thither, because there partly the thing was acted which he
desiredtospeaktomeabout; sowe walked on, and I pressed him to be
free and plain with me in what he had to say.

" Why, then, sir," says he, "be pleased to' give me leave to lay down a
few propositions, as the foundation of what I have to say, that we may not
differ in the general principles, though we may be of some difl'ering. opinions
in the practice of particulars. First, sir, though we differ in some of the
doctrinal articles of religion (and it is very unhappy it is so, especially in
the case before us, as I shall show afterwards), yet there are some general.
principles in which we both agree--that there is a God; and that this God-
having given us some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we
ought not willingly and knowingly to ofi'end Him, either by neglecting to-
do what He has commanded, or by doing what He has expressly forbidden. -
And let our different religions be what they will, this general principle is:
, readily owned by us all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily follow
presumptuous ainning against His command; and every good Christian will
be afi'ectionately concerned to prevent any that are under his care living
in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is not your menheing

Protestants, whatever my opinion may he of such, that discharges me from.
369 a n
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavouring. if it lies before m
that they should live in as little distance from enmity with their Maker as
possible, especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit"

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I granted all he
had said, and thanked him that he would so far concern himself for us:
and begged he would explain the particulars of what he had observed, that
like Joshua, to take his own parable, I might put away the accnrsed thing
from us.

" Why, then, sir," says he, " I will take the liberty you give me; and
there are three things, which, if I am right, must stand in the way of God's
blessing upon your endeavours here, and which I should rejoice, for your
sake and their own, to see removed. And, sir, I promise myself that you
will fully agree with me in them all, as soon as I name them; especially
because I shall convince you that every one of them may, with great ease,
and very much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First, sir," says he, " you
have here four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the
savages, and have taken them as their wives, and have had many children
by them all, and yet are not married to them after any stated legal manner,
as the laws of God and man require To this, sir, I know, you will object
that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind to perform the ceremony;
nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage, and
have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what the Spaniard
governor has told you, I mean of the agreement that he obliged them to
make when they took those women, viz that they should choose them out
by consent, and keep separately to them ; which, by the way, is nothing of
a marriage, no agreement with the women, as wives, but only an agreement
among themselves, to keep them from quarrelling. But, air, the essence or
the sacrament of matrimony (so he called it, being a Roman) consists not
only in the mutual consent of the parties to take one another as man and
wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that there is in the contract to
compel the man and woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each
other; obliging the man to abstain from all other women, to engage in no
other contract while these subsist; and, on all occasions, as ability allowsI
to provide honestly for them and their children; and to oblige the women
to the same or like conditions, on their side. Now, sir," days he, "these
men may, when they please, or when occasion presents, abandon these
women, disown their children, leave them to perish, and take other women.

and marry them while these are living;" and here he added, with some
370
warmth. "How, air, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty? And how
shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however good in
themselves, and however sincere in your design, while these men, who at
present are your subjects, under your absolute government and dominion,
are allowed by you to live in open adultery?"

I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much more with
the convincing arguments he supported it with; but I thought to have
got off my young priest by telling him that all that part was done
wheanas notthere: and that theyhad lived so many years with therr
now, that if it was adultery, it was past remedy; nothing could be done
in it now.

" Sir," says he, " asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in
this, that, it being done in your absence, you- could not be charged with
that part of the crime; but, I beseech you, flatter not yourself that you
are not, therefore. under an obligation to do your utmost now to put' an
end to it You should legally and efl'ectually marry them; and as, sir, my
way of marrying may not be easy to reconcile them to, though it will be
effectual, even by your own laws, so your way may be as well before God,
and as valid among men. I mean by a written contract, signed by both
man and woman, and by all the witnesses present, which all the laws of
Europe would decree to be valid."

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sincerity of zeal,
besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his own party or
church, and such true warmth for preserving people that he had no
knowledge of or relation to, flour transgmsing the laws of God. But
recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a written contract, which
Iknew he would stand to, I returned it back upon him, and told him I
grantedallthat he had said to be just, andonhispartverykind;that1
would discourse with the men upon the point now, when I came to. them;
and I knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry them all,
which I knew well enough would be granted to be as authentic and valid
in England as if they were married by one of our own clergymen.

I then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint which he
had to make, acknowhdging that I was very much his debtor for the first,
and thanked him heartily for it. He told me he would use the same
freedom and plainness in the second, and hoped I would take it as well;
and this was, that, notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, as he
called them, had lived with these women almost seven years, had taught;

an .
them to speak English, and even to read it, and that they were, as be
perceived, women of tolerable understanding, and capable of instruction,
yet they had not, to this hour, taught them anything of the Christian
religion--no, not so much as to know there was a God, or a worship, or in
what manner God was to be served, or that their own idolatry, and
worshipping they knew not whom, was false and absurd This, he said,
was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call them to
account for, and perhaps at last take the work out of their hands. He
spoke this very affectionately and warmly.

" I am persuaded," says he, "had those men lived in the savage country
whence their wives came, the savages would have taken more pains to have
brought them to be idolators, and to worship the devil, than any of these
men, so far as I can see, have taken with them to teach the knowledge of
the true God. Now, sir," said he, " though I do not aclmowledge your
religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad to see the devil's servants and
the subjects of his kingdom taught to know the general principles of the
Christian religion; that they might, at least, hear of God and a Redeemer,
and of the resurrection, and of a future state--things which we all believe;
that they might, at least, be so much nearer coming into the bosom of the
true church than they are now, in the public profession of idolatry and
devil-worship."

I could hold no longer: I took him in my arms, and embraced him
eagerly. " How far," said I to him, " have I been from understanding the
most essential part of a Christian, viz. to love the interest of the Christian
church, and the good of other men's souls] I scarce have known what
belongs to the being a Christian."--"Oh, sir! do not say so," replied he;
" this thing is not your faul "--" No," said I; " but why did I never lay it
to heart as well as you? "--" It is not too late yet," said he ; "be not too
forward to condemn yourself."----" But what can be done now?" saidI:
" you see I am going away."--" Will you give me leave to talk with these
poor men about it? "--" Yes, with all my heart," said I: " and will oblige
them to give heed to what you say too."--" As to that," said he, " we must
leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is your business to assist them,
encourage them, and instruct them; and if you give me leave, and God his
blessing, I do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought home
to the great circle of Christianity, if not into the particular faith we all
embrace, and that even while you stay here." Upon this I said, "I shall

not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it."
372
Inowpressedhimforthethirdarticleinwhichweweretoblama
"Why, really," says he, "it is of the same nature. It is about your poor
savages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim,
sir, that is, or ought to be received among all Christians, of what church or
pretended church soever, that the Christian knowledge ought to be pro-
pagated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions. It is on this
principle that our church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and China;
and that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most
hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous residence amongst murderers
and barbarians to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring
them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an _
opportunity here to have six or seven-and-thirty poor savages brought over
from a state of idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer.
that I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing good, which is
really worth the expense of a man's whole life."

I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one word to say. I had
here the spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me. As
for me, I had not so much as entertained a thought of this' in my heart
before, and I believe I should not have thought of it; for I looked - upon
these savages as slaves, and people whom, had we not had any work for
them to do, we would have used as such, or would have been glad to have
transported them to any other part of the world; for our business was to
get rid of them, and we would all have been satisfied if they had been sent
to any country, so they had never seen' their own. I was confounded at
his discourse, and knew not what answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me, seeing my confusion--"Sir," says he, "I shall
be very sorry if what I have said gives you any offence." --" No, no," said
I, " I am ofi'ended with nobody but myself, but I am perfectly confounded, '
not only to think thatI should never take any noticeof this before, but with
reflecting what notice I am able to take of it now. You know, sir,". said I,
"whatcircumstanceslam in; Iam bound to the East Indies in a ship
freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an insufferable piece of
injusticetodetaintheirshipherathe men lyingall thiswhile atvictufls
andwagesonthe owners' account. Itis true, Iagreedtobe allowed
twelve deysheraandif Istay more, I mustpaythree pounds sterlingpec
diam demurrage; nor can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more '
and I have been here thirteen already; so that'I are perfectly unable
to engage in this'work, unless I would sufi'er myself to lie-left behind here'
again; in which case, if this single ship should miscan'y in any part of
her voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was left in here
at first, and from which I have been so wonderfully delivered." He owned
the case was very hard upon me as to my voyage; but laid it home upon
my conscience, whether the blessing of saving thirty-seven souls was not
worth venturing all I had in the world for. I was not so sensible of that
as he was. I replied to him thus: " Why, sir, it is a valuable thing,
indeed, to be an instrument in God's hand to convert thirty-seven heathens
to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an eoclesiastic, and are given
over to the work, so it seems so naturally to fall into the way of your pro-
fession; how is it, then, that you do not rather offer yourself to undertake
it than press me to do it? "

Upon this he faced about just before me, as he walked along, and putting
me to a full stop, made me a very low bow. " I most heartily thank God
and you, sir," said he, " for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a work;
and if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake it,
I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards
and difliculties of such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have met with,
that I am dropped at last into so glorious a wor ."

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke this to me; his
eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and his colour came and went; in a
word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked in such a work. I
paused a considerable while before I could tell what to say to him; forI
was really surprised to find a man of such sincerity, and who seemed
possessed of a zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men. But after I had
considered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he
would venture, on the single consideration of an attempt to convert those
poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for perhaps his life, and
at last might not know whether he should be able to do them good or not?
He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a venture? " Pray.
sir," said he, "what do you think I consented to go in your ship to the
East Indies for?"--"Nay," said I, "that I know not, unless it was to
preach to the Indians."---" Doubtless it was," said he; "and do you think,
if I can convert these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ, it is
not worth my time, though I should never be fetched ofi' the island again?
--nay, is it not infinitely of more worth to save so many souls than my life
is, or the life of twenty more of the same profession? Yes, sir," says he.

"I would give God thanks all my days, if I could be made the happy
37'w."

g.

,.
F0.

 

THE PRIEST UIIGFS THE COS'TERSION OF THE INDIAN&

instrument of saving the souls of those poor men, though I were never to
get my foot off this island, or see my native country any more. But since
you will honour me with putting me into this work, for which I will pray
for you all the days of my life, I have one humble petition to you besides."
--"What is that?" said I.--"Why," says he, " it is, that you will leave
your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me;
for without some help I cannot speak to them, or they to ma."

375
I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could not
think of parting with him, and that for many reasons: he had been the
companion of my travels; he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely
affectionate to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something con.
siderable for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then I
knew that, as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite
confound him to bring him to embrace another religion; and he would
never, while his eyes were open, believe that his old master was a heretic,
and would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the poor fellow's
principles, and so turn him back again to his first idolatry. However,
a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him
I could not say that I was willing to part with Friday on any account
whatever, though a work that to him was of more value than his life, ought
to be of much more value than the keeping or parting with a servant But,
on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by no means agree to
part with me; and I could not force him to it without his consent, without
manifest injustice; because I had promised I would never send him away,
and he had- promised and engaged to me that he would never leave me,
unless I sent him away.

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational access to
these poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their language,
nor they one of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him Friday's tether
had learned Spanish, which I found he also understood, and he should serve
him as an interpreter. So he was much better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would stay and endeavour to convert them; but
Providence gave another very happy turn to all this.

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we came to
the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, and after some account given
them of what I had done for them, viz. what necessary things I had
provided for them, and how they were distributed, which they were very
sensible of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous
life they led, and gave them a full account of the notice the clergyman had
taken of it; and arguing how unchristian and ineligious a life it was, I first
asked them if they were married men or bachelors? They soon explained
their condition to me, and showed that two of them were widowers, and the
other three were single men, or bachelors. I asked them with what con-
science they could take these women, and call them their wives, and have

so many children by them, and not be lawfully married to them? They all
8'16
<<ave me the answer I expected, viz..thst there was nobody to marry them; '
that they agreed before the governor to keep them as their wives, and to
maintain them and own them as their wives ; and they thought, as things
stood with them, they were as legally married as if they had been married
by a person, and with all the formalities in the world.

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, and
were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives ; but-that the laws of
men being otherwise, they might desert the poor women and children here-
after; and that their wives, being poor desolate women, friendless and
moneyless, would have no way to help themselves. I therefore told them
that, unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing for
them, but would take care that what I did should be for the women and
children without them ; and that, unless they would give me some assurances
that they would marry the women, I could not think it was convenient they
should continue together as man and wife; for that it was both scandalous
to men and ofi'ensive to God, who they could not think would bless them if
they went on thus.

All this went on as I expected; and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they loved their wives
us well as if they had been born in their own native country, and would
not leave them on any account whatever; and they did verily believe that
their wives were as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the utmost of their
skill, as much for them and for their children, as any women could possibly
do ; and they would not part with them on any account Will Atkins, for
his own particular, added, that if any man would take him away, and after '
to carry him home to England, and make him captain of-the best man-of-
wnr in the navy, he would not go with him, if he might not carry his wife
and childrenwithhim; andiftherewas aclergymaninthe ship, hewould
bemarriedtohernowwithsllhisheart >> '

This was just as I would have it. The priest wise not with me at that
moment, but was not far off: so to try him further,Itold'him Ihsds'

 

clergyman with me, and, if he was sincere, I would have him marriednext - '

morning, and beds him consider of it, and talk with the'reet. He'said, as
forhimeelfiheneednot consider of it stalLfor hewasveryreedytcdoit,
and was glad I had a minister with me, and he believed they would be all
willing also. I then told him that my friend, the minister, was s'French-
man, and could not speak English, but I would act the-clerk between them.

He never so much as asked me whether he was a'Papistl-orProtestant.
377
which was,indeed,whathasafi-aidoPS Wethenparted.andeentback
to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his companions. I
dedred the Reno]: gentleman not to say anything to them till the business
was thoroughly ripe; and I told him what anawar the men had given me. -

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and told me they
had been considering what I had said; that they were glad to hear I had a
clergyman in my company, and they were very willing to give me the
satisfaction I desired, and to be formally married as soon as I pleased; for
they were far from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest when they chose them'. So I appointed
them to meet me the next morning; and, in the mean time, they should let
their wives know the meaning of the marriage law; and that it was not
only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that they should not
forsake them, whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and
were verywell satisfied with it, as, indeed, they had reason to be: so they
failed not to attend altogether at my apartment next morning, where I
brought out my clergyman; and though he had not on a minister's gown.
afiel- the manner of England, or the habit of a priest, afier the manner of
France, yet having a black vest something like a cassock, with a sash round
it, he did not look very unlike a minister; and as for his language. I was
his interpreter. But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the
scruples he made of marrying the women, because they were not baptized
and professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his person;
and there was no need, after that, to inquire whether he was a clergyman or
not. Indeed, I was afraid his acruples would have been carried so far as
that he would not have married them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was
able to say to him, be resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, and
at last refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had first talked with the
men and the women too; and though at first I was a little backward to it,
yet at last I agmed to it with a goodwileerceiving the sincerityofhis
design.

When he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him
with their circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very
willing to perform that part of his function, and marry them, as I had
desired; but that before he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk
with them. He told them, that' in the sight of all indifferent men, and in

the sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this while in a state of
878
 

sin; and that itwas true, that nothing but the consenting to marry, cs
efi'eotually separating them fi-om one another, could now put an end to it;
but therewas edificultyin ittoo,withrespectto the laws of Christian
matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied- about, that of marrying one '
that is a professed Christian to a savage-an'idolator, and a heathen--one
that is not baptised; and yet that he did not see that there was time leitto
endeavour to persuade the women to be baptized, or to profess the name of
Christ, whom they had. he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which
they could not be baptized He told them he doubted they were but
indifferent Christians themselves; that they had but little knowledge of
God or of his ways, and therefore he could not expect that they had'said
much to their wives on that head yet; but that unlessthey would promise
him to use their endeavours with their wives to persuade them to become
Christians, and would, as well as they could, instruct them in the know-
ledge and belief of God that made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that
redeemed them, he could not marry them; for he would have no hand in
joining Christians with savages, nor was it consistent with the principles of'
the Christian religion, and was, indeed'expressly forbidden in God's law. ,
They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully
tothemfromhismouth, asnearhisownwords asIcculd;on1ysometilnes
adding something of my own, to convince them how just it was, and that
I was of.his mind; and I always very faithfully distinguished between
what I said from myself, and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me it was very true what the gentleman said, that they were very indifferent
Christiansthemselveaaudthattheyhadnever talkedto their wivesabout
religion. " Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, " how should we teach them
religion? Why, we know nothing ourselves; and besides, sir," said he,
"shouldwetalktothemof Godand Jesus Christand heaven and helLit
would make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe ourselves!
Andifweshouldtellthem thatwebelieveallthe thingswe speakctto
them, such as ofgoodpeophgoingtoheavemandwickedpeopletothe
devihthey'wouldaskus where we intend to go ourselves,that believe-all
thiaandaxesuchwicked fellows as weindeedarei Why,si'r,'tisenough_
*0 give them a surfeit of religion at first hearing; folks must have some: . ..
religion themselves before they begin to teach other people."---";'.Will; -
Atkins," said I to him, "though I am afraid that what you say has he:
muchtiuthinityet can you not tellyour wife sheisinthewrongagthat; _
them-aaeoamd. religionbetterthanhetown; thathergcdsareidolseat'
an -
that they can neither hear nor speak; that there is a great Being that made
all things, and that can destroy all that he has made; that he rewards the
good and punishes the bad; and that we are to be judged by him at last
for all we do here? You are not so ignorant, but even nature itself will
teach you that all this is true; and I am satisfied you know it all to be
true, and believe it yourself."--" That is true, sir," said Atkins; " but with
what face can I say anything to my wife of all this, when she will tell me
immediately it cannot be true ? "----" Not true !" said I; "what do you mean
by that?"---" Why, sir," said he, " she will tell me it cannot be true that
this God I shall tell her of can be just, or can punish or reward, since I am
not punished and sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked creature
as she knows I have been, even to her, and to everybody else; and that I
should he suffered to live, that have been always acting so contrary to what
I must tell her is good, and to what I ought to have done."--" Why, truly,
Atkins," said I, " I am afraid thou speakest too much truth ; " and with that
I informed the clergyman of what Atkins had said, for he was impatient to
know. " Oh," said the priest, " tell him there is one thing will make him
the best minister in the world to his wife, and that is, repentance; for none
teach repentance like true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and
then he will be so much the better qualified to instruct his wife; he will
then be able to tell her that there is not only a God, and that he is the just
rewarder of good and evil, but that he is a merciful being, and with infinite
goodness and long-suffering forbears to punish those that offend ; waiting to
be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should
return and live; and even reserves damnation to the general day of retri-
bution; that it is a clear evidence of God and of a future state, that
righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their punishment,
till they come into another world; and this will lead him to teach his wife
the doctrine of the resurrection and of the last judgment. Let him but
repent himself, he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."
I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while, and.
as we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily affected with it;
when being eager, and hardly sufi'ering me to make an end--" I know all
this, master," says he, "and a great deal more; but I have not the impu-
dence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my conscience know, and my
wife will be an undeniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if I
had never heard of a God or future state, or anything about it; and to talk

of my repenting, ales! (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and I could
aeo
nethettheteare stood in his eyes) 'tispm all thatwith may--"Punt
Atldnsi" said I : " what dost thou mean by that i "--"I know well enough
what I mean," says he; " I mean 'tis too late,- and that is too true."

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said, and this affectionate
man could not refrain from tears; but, recovering himself, said to me,
"Ask him but one question: Is he easy that it is too late; or is he
troubled, and wishes it were not so i " I put the question flairly to Atkins;
and he answered, with a great deal of passion, "How could any man be
easy in a condition that must certainly end in eternal destruction? that he
was far from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he believed it would '
one time or other ruin him."--" What do you mean by that?" said I.
"Why," he said, " he believed he should one time or other out his throat, to
put an end to the tenor of it."

The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his face, when I
toldhim all this; but turning quick to me, upon it, says, "If thatbehis
case, we mayassurehimitisnottoo late; Chrietwillgivehimrepentanes.
But pray," says he, " explain this to him; that as no man is saved but by '
Christ, and the merit of his passion procuring divine mercy for him, how
can it be too-late for any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able
to sin beyond the power or reach of divine mercy? Pray tell him, there
may be a time when provoked mercy will no longer strive, and when God
may refuse to hear, but that it is never too late for men to ask mercy; and
we, that are Christ's servants, are commanded to preach mercy at all times,
in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent: so that it is
never too late to repen "

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it
seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rem for he said tome, he
would go and have some talk with his wife; so he went out a while, and
we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to
matters of religion, as much as I was when I went rambling away from my
father; yet there were none of them backward to hear what had been said;
and all of them seriously promised that they would talk with their wives
about it, and do their endeavours to persuade them to turn Christians. ~

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer they gave.
but said nothing a good while; but atlast shaking his head, "We that are
Christ's servants," says he, "can go no furtherthanto exhort and instruct:
and when men comply, submit to the reproof, and promise what we'nsk', 'tis
allwecan do; we areboundto accept their goodwords; butbelieveme,

asl
sir," said he, " whatever you may have known of the life of that man you
call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere convert among them: I
will not despair of the rest; but that man is apparently struck with the
sense of his past life, and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion to
his wife, he will talk himself effectually into it: for attempting to teach
others is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. If that poor
Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, he will
assuredly talk himself into a thorough convert, make himself a penitent,
and who knows what may ibllow 1"

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to endeavour
to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the other two
couple; but Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this,
my clergyman, waiting awhile, was ouriousto know where Atkins was gone,
and turning to me, said, " I entreat you, sir, let uswalk out of your labyrinth
here, and look; I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or other
talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already something of
religion." I began to be of the same mind; so we went out together, and
I carried him a way which none knew but myself, and where the trees were
so very thick that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and
far harder to see in than to see out : when, coming to the edge of the wood,
1 saw Atkins and his tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very
eager in discourse: I stopped short till-my clergyman came up to me, and
then having showed him where they were, we stood and looked very steadily
at them a good while. We observed him very earnest with her, pointing
up to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and then down to the
earth, then out to the see, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the
trees. " Now," says the clergyman, "you see my words are made good, the
men preaches to her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has
made him, her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c."
----"I believe he is," said I. Immediately, we perceived Will Atkins start
upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We
supposed he said something, but we could not hear him; it was too far for
that He did not continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits
down again by his wife, and talks toher again; we perceived then the
woman very attentive, but whether she said anything to him we could
not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could see the tears
run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I could hardly forbear

myself; but it was a great affliction to us both that we were not near
382
enough to hear anything that passed between them. Well, however, we
oouldcomenonearerforfear of disturbing them: soweresolvedtoseean
endof this phceof stflloonversatiomanditspoksloudenoughtons
without the help of voice. He sat downagain, as I have said, close by'her,
andtalked again earnestlytoher, andtwo o'rthreetimeswsoouldseshim
embrace her most passionately; another time we saw him; take out his
handkerchiefandwipe her eyes, and thenkissheragainwithakindof
transport very unusual; and after several of these thingawe sawhim on
a sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help her up, when
immediame leading her by the hand a step or two, theybothkneeled down
together, and continued so about two minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul! St.
Paul 1 behold, he prayeth." I was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore
I entreatedhim to withhold himself awhile, that we might see anend of
the scene, which to me, I must confess was the most afl'ecting that ever I
sawinmylife. Wem'hestrovewithhimself forawhflabutwas in such
raptor-es, to think that the poor heathen women was become a. Christian,
that he was not able to contain himself; he wept several times, thsnthrow-
ing uphis handsandorossing his breast,saidoversevemlthings ejaculatory,
andbythewey of giving God thanksforsomiraoulousatesfimonyof the
suceess of our endeavours. Some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear
others; some things he said in Latin, some in French; then twoorthree
times the tears would interrupt him, that he could not speak at all; but I
begged that he would contain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully
observe what was before us, which he did for a time, the scene not being near
ended yet; for after the poor man and his wife were risen again from their
knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, andwe observed her
motion, that she was greatly afiected with what he said, by her frequently
lifting up her hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other postures
as express the greatest seriousness and attention, this continued about half
a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away, so we could see no more
of them in that situation.

I tookthisintervaltosaytotheclergymmfirstthathesgladto see
thepartioulars wehadbothbeenwitnessesto; that, thoughIwashard
enoughof beliefinsuchca'sss,yet that Ibegan to think it was allvery
Sincere here, both' in the man and his wife, however ignorant they might both
be, and I hoped such a beginning would yet have a more happy end: "But,"

my friend" added I, "will you give me leave to start one difficulty here?
533
I cannot tell how to object the least thing against that affectionate concern
which you show for the turning of the poor people from their Paganism to
the Christian religion; but how does this comfort you, while these peoplo
are, in your account, out of the pale of 'the Catholic church, without which
you believe there is no salvation? so that you esteem these but heretics, as
efl'ectually lost as the Pagans themselves."

To this he answered, with abundance of candour, thus: "Sir, I am a
Catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of the order of St. Benedict,
and I embrace all the principles of the Roman faith; but yet, if you will
believe me, and that I do not speak in compliment to you, or in respect to
my circumstances and your civilities; I say, nevertheless, I do not look
upon you, who call yourselves reformed, without some charity. I dare not
say (though I know it is our opinion in general) that you cannot be saved;
I will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far as think that he cannot
receive you into the bosom of his church, in a manner to us unperceivable;
and I hope you have the same charity for us: I pray daily for your being
all restored to Christ's church, by whatsoever method He, who is all-wise,
is pleased to direct. In the mean time, surely you will allow it consists
with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant and a Pagan;
between one that calls on Jesus Christ, though in a way which I do not
think is according to the true faith, and a savage or a barbarian, that knows
no God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if you are not within the pale of the
Catholic church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than those
who know nothing of God or of his church: and I rejoice, therefore, 'when
I see this poor man, who, you say, has been a profiigate, and almost a mu:-
derer, kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he did, though
not fully enlightened; behaving that God,'from whom every such work
proceeds, will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him to the further
knowledge of that truth in his own time; and if God shall influence this
poor man to convert and instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never
believe that he shall be cast away himself. And have I not reason, then.
to rejoice, the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though
they may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the Catholic church
just at the time when I desire it, leaving it to thegoodness of Christ to
perfect his work in his own time, and in his own way'l, Certainly, I would
rejoice if all the savages in America were brought, like this poor woman, to
pray to God, though they were all to be Protestants at first, rather than

they should continue Pagans or Heathens; firmly behaving, that He that
834 '
had bestowed the first light on them would farther illuminate them with a
beam of his heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of his church,
when he should see good."

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious Papist, as
much as I was oppressed by the power of his reasoning; and it presently
occurred to my thoughts, that if such a temper was universal, we might be
all Catholic Christians, whatever church or particular profession we joined
in ; that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into right principles;
and as he thought that the like charity would make us all Catholics, so I
told him I believed, had all the members of his church the like moderation,
they would soon all be Protestants. And there we left that part; for we
never disputed at all. However, I talked to him another way, and taking
him by the hand, "My friend," says I, " I wish all the clergy of the Bomish
church were blessed with such moderation, and had an equal share of your
charity. I am entirely of your opinion; but I must tell you, that if you
should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put you into the
Inquisition."-- " It may be so," said he- , " I know not what they would do
in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they would be the better Christians
for that severity; for I am sure there is no heresy in abounding with charity."

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was
over, so we went back our own way; and when we came back, we found them
waiting to be called in': observing this, I asked my clergyman if we should
discover to him that we had seen him under the bush or not; and it was
his opinion we should not, but that we should talk to him first, and hear
what he would say to us: so we called him in alone, nobody being in the
place but ourselves, and I began by asking him some particulars about his
pareuMe and education. He told me frankly enough that his father was a
clelgyman who would have taught him well, but that he, Will Atkins,
despised all instruction and correction; and by his brntish conduct cut the
thread of all his father's comforts and shortened his days, for that he broke '
his heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return for the most affectionate
treatment a father ever gave.

In what he said there seemed so much sincerity of repentance, that it
painfully afl'ected me. I could not but reflect that I, too, had shortened the life
of a good tender father by my bad conduct 'and obstinate self- will. I was,
indeed, so surprised with what he had told me, that I thought, instead of my
going about to teach andinstruct him, the manwas made ateacherand

instructor to me in a mo'st unexpected manner. .
885 , c c
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly sfiectec
with it, and said to me, " Did I not say, sir, that when this man was con.
verted he would preach to us all? I tell you, sir, if this one man be made a
true penitent, here willbe no need ofme'; hewillmakeChristians ofallin
the island." --But having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse
with Will Atkins. " But Will," said I," how comes the sense of this
matter to touch you just now i"

W. A.--Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart
through my very soul: I have been talking about God and religion to my
wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of her, and she has
preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.

R (ll--No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but when you
were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung them back
upon you.

W. A .--Ay, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted

R. (Si--Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and your
wife; for I know something of it already.

W. A.--Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it; I am too
full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express it; but let her have said
what she will, though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can tell
you, that I have resolved to amend and reform my life.

R. C'.--But tell us some of it: how did you begin, Will? For this has
been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She has preached a sermon,
indeed if she has wrought this upon you.

W. A .--Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about marriage,
and what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter into
such compacts, as it was neither in the power of one nor other to break;
that otherwise, order and justice could not be maintained, and men would
run from their wives, and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one
another, and neither families be kept entire, nor inheritances' be settled by
legal descent

R CC--You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her understand
what you meant by inheritance and families? They know no such things
among the savages, but marry anyhow, without regard to relation, consan-
guinity, or family; brother and sister, nay, as I have been told, even the
father and the daughter, and the son and the mother.

W. A.--I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my wife assures me of

the contrary, and that they abhor it; perhaps, for any farther relations
sac
 

theymaynotbesoexactasweare;butehetellsmeneverinthenear.
relationship you speak oPS

R. a--Well, what did she say to what you told her? '

W. A.---She said she liked it very well, as it was much better than in
her countiy.

R. C'.----But did youtell her what marriage was?

W. A .--Ay, ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her if she would he
married to me our way. She asked me what way that was; I told her
marriage was appointed by God; and here we had a strange talk together,
indwd, as ever man and wife had, I believe.

N.B.--This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife, which I took
down in writing just after he had told it me, was as follows. --

er--Appointed by your God! Why, have you a God in your
country 2

W. A. --Yes, my dear, God 1s in every country. .

W fa--No your God' in my country; my country have the great old .
Benamuckee God. .

W. A.--Child,I am very unfit to show you who God is; God 18 in
heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all that in
them is.

er--No makee de earth; no you God makes all earth; no makee my
country.

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of. God not making her
country.

er--No laugh; why laugh me? This no ting to laugh.

[He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious than he
at first]

W. A. --Thst's true, indeed; I will not'laugh any more, my dear.

Wye--Why, you say you God makes all?

W. A .--Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you, and me,
and allthinge; forhe isthe onlytrue God. andthere isnoflodbuthim;
he lives for ever in heaven.

Wife--Why you no tell me long ago?

W. A. ----That's trugindeed; but Ihavebeena wiekedwretch, andhave
not only forgotten to acquaint thee with anything before, but have 'lived
without God in the world myselPS

Wife --What, have you a great God in your country, you no know
him? NosayOtohim? Nodogoodtingforhimi Thatnepoeeihleif

 

  
    
 
 

r
W. A.--It is true; though, for all that, we live as if there was no God
in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.

Wife--But why God let you do so 2 Why he no makes you good live!

W. A.-----ll is all our own fault.

Wife--But you say me he is great, much great, have much great poWer;
can makee kill when he will: why he no makes kill when you no serve
him? no say 0 to him? no be good mans?

W. A.--That is true, he might strike me dead; and I ought to expect it,
for I have been a wicked wreteh, that is true; but God is merciful, and
does not deal with us as we deserve.

, Wife--But then do you not tell God thankee for that too?

W. A.--No, indeed, I have not thanked God for his mercy, any more
than I have feared God for his power.

Wife--Then you God no God; me no think, believe he-he such one,

. great much power, strong: no makee kill you, though you make him much
angry.

W. A.---What, will my wicked life hinder you from believing in God?
What a dreadful creature am I! and what a sad truth is it, that the horrid
lives of Christians hinder the conversion of heathens!

Wife--How me tink you have great much God up there [she points
up to heaven], and yet no do well, no do good thing? Can he tell? Sure
he no tell what you do ?

W. A.--Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things; he hears us speak, sees
what we do, knows what we think, though we do not speak.

Wife--What! he no hear you curse, swear, speak do great damn?

W. A.--Yes, yes, he hears it all.

Wife--Where be then the much great power strong?

W. A.--He is merciful, that is all we can say for it; and this proves
him to be the true God; he is God, and not man, and therefore we are not
consumed

[Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to think how he
could tell his wife so clearly that God sees, and hears, and knows the secret
thoughts of the heart, and all that we do, and yet that he had dared to do
all the vile things he had done]

Wife--Merciful! - What you call dat? ,

W. A.------He is our father and maker, and he pities and spares us.

Wifa--So then he never makes kill, never angry when you do wicked;

then he no good himself, or no great able.
ass
W. A.---Yes, yes, my dear, he is infinitely goodand infinitely great, and
able to punish too; and sometimes, to show his justice and vengeance, he
letsfiyhisangertodestroysinners and make examples; manyere cut 03'
in their sins.

Wifc.--But no makes kill you yet; then he tell you, may be, that he no
makes you kill: so you makes de bargain with him, you do bad- thing, he
no be angry at you when he be angry at other mans.

W. A.--No, indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon his goodness ;' .
and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me, as he has done other-
men.

Wife--Well, and yet no kill, no makes you deed; what you say to him
for that? You no tell him thenkee for all that too?

W. A.--I a'm an unthenkful, ungrateful dog, that is true.

Wife--Why he no makes you much good better? you say he makes
you.

W. A.--He made me as he made all the world; it is I have deformed
myself and abused his goodness, and ma'de myself an abominable wretch.

Wife--I wish you makes God know me. I no makes him angry--I no
do bad wicked thing. .

[Here Will Atkins said his hem sunk within him, to hear a poor
unteught creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such a wicked
wretch, that he could not say one word to her about God, but what the
reproach of his own carriage would make most irrational to her to believe;
nay, that already she had told him that she could not believe in God,
because he, that was so wicked, was not destroyed]

W. A.---My dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you to know God,
not God to know you; for he Imam you already, and every thought in your
heart.

Wife--Why, then, he know what I say to you now: he know me wish -
to know him. How shall me know who makes me?

WA.----Poorcreature, he mustteachthee: Icannotteachthes. Iwill.
pray to him to teach thee to know him, and tin-give me, that am unworthy
to teach thee.

[The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make her
know God, andherwishingtoknowhim,that he said he fell downonhis
knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving
knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to pardon his sins, and accept of hisbeing
the unworthy instrument'of instructing her in the principles of religion :-

see' LIFE AND LBW

after which he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on. This
was the time when we saw him kneel down, and hold up his hands]

Wifa--What you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hand
for? What you say? Who you speak to? What is all that?

W. A.---My dear, I how my knees in token of my submission to him
that made me :. I said 0 to him, as you call it, and as your old men do to
their idol Benamuckee ; that is, I prayed to him.

Wzfi.--What say you 0 to him for?

W. A.--I prayed to him to open your eyes and your understanding, that
you may know him, and be accepted by him.

Wife--Can he do that too?

W. A.----Yes, he can: he can do all things.

Wat--But now he hear what you say?

W. A.--Yes, he has hid us pray to him, and promised to hear us.

Wife--Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid you 2 What
you hear him speak?

W. A.---No, we do not hour him speak; but he has revealed himself
many ways to us.

[Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God has
revealed himself to us by his word, and what his word was; but at last
he told it her thus :--]

W. A. --God has spoken to some good men in former days, even from
heaven, by plain words ; and God has inspired good men by his Spirit; and
they have written all his laws down in a book.

Wife--Me no understand that ; where is book 2'

W. A.--Alas! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope I
shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to read it.

[Here be embraced her with great affection, but with inexpreseible grief
that he had not a Bible]

Wife--But how you makes me know that God teaches them to write
that book ?

W. A .--'By the same rule that we know him to be God.

Wife--What rule? What way you know him?

W. A.--Because he teaches and commands nothing but what is good,
righteous, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, as well as per-
fectly happy; and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid, all that
is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.

Wilt--That me would understand, that. me Iain see; if he teaches all

890
goodthinghemakeeallgoodfinnghegiveallthinghemermewhenl
gayotohim,asyoudojustnow;hemekeemegood,iPS1mshtobegood;
hespuemenomakeeldnmewhenInobegood: allthisyouseyhedo,
yethebogreetGod: metakethinhbelievehimtobegreatGod;meeny
Otohimwithyommydeer.

Herethepoormeneouldforbearnolonger, butraisedherup,msdeher
kneelbyhim,snd he prayedtoGodaloudtoinstruet herinthe knowledge
of himselfibyhis Spirit;end thstbysomegoodprovidenee, if possible, she
might, some time or other, come to have a Bible, that she might read
theWordof Godand be taught byit to know him. This was thetime
thatweeswhimhftherupbythehnndsnd sawhirnkneeldownbyher,
asabove.

Theyhadseveral other discourses, it seems,sfierthis; and particularly
shemadehimpmmiseflmtsinoeheeonfeswdhisownlifehedheens
wicked, abominable course of provocation against God, that he would
reformit, endnotmake Godangr-yenymmlestheehouldmakehim
dead, assheoalledit,andthenshewonldbehftaloneandneverbeteught
toknowthisGod better; and lest he shouldbe mismblgashehsdtold
her wickedmenwouldbe, afterdeath.

This wasestrange account, and very afi'ectingtous both, bntpartiou--
larly to the young clergyman; he was, indeed, wonderfully snrprisedwith
it, but nnderthegreatestsfiictionimeginable that he oonldnottalktoher,
that he could notspeakEnglish,to make her understand him; endasshe
spoke but very broken English, he could not understand her; hoivever,he
tumedhimselftorne,andtoldmethsthebelievedthntthemmustbemore
to do with this women than to marryher. Idid not understandhimat
first;butatlengthheexpleinedhimself,viz.thstsheoughttohehsptised. ,~
Iagreedwithhiminthatpsrtreadily,andwishedittobedonepresently -
"No, no; holdsir ,"says he; "thoughIwould have herbebaptized, byall -

 

means, for I must observe that Will Atkins, her husband, has him i

brought her, in a wonderful manner, to be willing to embreoe a religidus
life, and hes given her just ideas of the being of a God; of his power,

jusfioqandmercy. yetIdesiretoknowofli-imifhehassaidanythingto ' "

herof JesnsChfistandof thesalvotionofeinners; ofthenetnreoffaith'

inhim, and redemption by him; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection-the

last judgment, andthefuturestate."
IoafledWfllAtkinsagaimaridaskedhim; htrtthepoorfellowfell.

mmedratelymwteueendwldnshehadeardsomethmgtoherofsllthose
:91 _
things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, andhis own conscience
so reproached him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled at the
apprehensions that her knowledge of him should lessen the attention she
should. give to those things, and make her rather contemn religion than
receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was so disposed to
receive due impressions of all those things, and that if I would but discourse
with her, she would make it appear to my satisfaction that my labour would
not be lost upon her. '

Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between
my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to begin with her; but
sure such a sermon was never preached by a Popish priest in these latter
ages of the world ; and, as I told him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the
knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman
Catholic; and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops
were, before the church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over the
consciences of men. In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the
knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by him, not with wonder and
astonishment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with joy and
faith ; with an affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce to

' be imagined, much less to be expressed; and, at her own request, she was
baptized.

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreeted him that he would
perform that ofiice with some caution, that the man might not perceive he
was of the Roman church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us in that very religion which we
were instructing the other in. He told me that as he had no consecrated
chapel, nor proper things for the oflice, I should see he would do it in a
manner that I should not know by it that he was a Roman Catholic myself,
if I had not known it before; and so he did; for saying only some words
over to himself in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a whole
dishful of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing in hunch, very loud,
" Mary (which was the name her husband desired me to give her, for I was
her godfather), I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghost;" so that none could know anything by it what
religion he was of He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin, but either
Will Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not take notice of
it at that time.

As soon as this was over, we married them ; and alter the marriage was
392
 

over-,heturnedtoWillAtkins, andin aver-yafiecfionatemanner eahorted
him, not only to persevere in that good disposition he was in, butto support
the convictions that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life: told
him it was in vain to saylie repented if he did not forsakehiserimes;
represented to him how God had honoumd him with being the instrument
of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he
should be careful he did not dishonour the graceof God; andthatifhe
did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage
converted, and the instrument cast away. He said a great many good
things to them both ; and then, recommending them to God's goodness, gave
them the benediction again, I repeating everything to themiin English; and
thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant and agreeable
daytomethat ever-Ipassedinmywholelife. Butmyclergyman hadnot'.
done yet: his thoughts hung continually upon the conversion of the thirty-
seven savages, and fain he would have. stayed upon the island to have
undertaken it; but I convinced him, first, that his undertaking was imprac-
ticable in itself; and, secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a way of
being. done in his absence to his satisfaction. ,
Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow compass,
I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man I had
taken out of the tarnished ship's company came to me, and told me he
nnderstoodIhadaclergymanwith meandthatIhadcausedtheEnglish--
mentobemarriedtothe savages:thathehadamatchtoo,whichhe
desiredmightbefinishedbefore I wentbetween two Christians, which he
hoped would not be disagreeable to me. - ' -
Iknewthis must be the young womanwho was his mother's servant,
for there was no other Christian woman on the island: so I began to
persuadehimnotto do anythingof thatkind rashly, or because hefound -.
himselfinthissolitary circumstance. Irepresentedtohimthathehad.
some considerable substance in the world, and good friends, as I understood
by himself, andthe maid also; that themaid was not only poor, ands.
servant, but was unequal to him, she being six or seven and twenty years
old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen; that he might very probably,
with my assistance, make a remove from this wilderness, and come into
his own country again; andtliatthenit wouldbeathousand tonne
but he would repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to say more, but he ' -
interrupwd me, smiling, and told me, with a great ded of modesty, that _
I' mistook in my guesses--that he had nothing of that kind in his
thoughts; and he was very glad to hear that I had an intent of putting
them in a way to see their own country again; and nothing should
have made him think of staying there, but that the voyage I was going
was so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of
the reach of all his friends; that he had nothing to desire of me, but
that I would settle him in some little property in the island where he
was, give him a servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would
live here like a planter, waiting the good time when, if ever I returned
to England, I would redeem him. He hoped I would not be unmindful of
him when I came to England: that he would give me some letters to his
friends in London, to let them know how good I had been to him, and in
what part of the world, and what circumstances I had left him in: and
he promised me that whenever I redeemed him, the plantation, and all
the improvements he had made upon it, let the value be what it would,
should be wholly mine.

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth, and
was the more agreeable to me, because he told me positively the match
was not for himselfi I gave him all possible assurances that if I lived
to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters, and do his business
effectually; and that he might depend I should never forget the circum-
stances I had left him in; but still I was impatient to know who was
the person to be married; upon which he told me it was my Jack-of-all--
trades and his maid Susan. I was most agreeably surprised when he
named the match; for, indeed, I thought it very suitable 'The character
of that man I have given already; and as for the maid, she was a very
honest, modest, sober, and religious young woman: had a very good share
of sense, was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and
to the purpose, always with decency and good manners, and was neither
too backward to speak when requisite, nor impertinently forward when
it was not her business; very handy and housewifely, and an excellent
manager; fit, indeed, to have been governess to the whole island; and she
knew very well how to behave in every respect.

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the same
day; and as I was father at the altar, and gave her away, so I gave her
a portion; for I appointed her and her husband a handsome large space
of ground for their plantation; and, indeed, this match, and the proposal

the young gentleman made to give him a small property in the island.
am
putme uponparcellingitout amongst them,that theymightnot quand.
afterwards about their situation .

Thissharingout the landtothemI left toW'fllAtldnawhowas now
grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly reformed,- exceedingly
pious and religious; and, as fin- as I may be allowed to speak positively
in such a case. I verily believe he was a true penitent He divided things
so justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, that they only desired
one general writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused to be
drawn up, and signed andsealed. settingout the boundsandsituation
of every man's plantation, and testifying that I gave them thereby severally
a right to the whole possession and inheritance of the respective planta-
tions or farms, with their improvements, to them and their heirs, reserving
alltherestofthe island as myown property,and acertainrentforevery
particular plantation afier eleven years, if I, or any one from me, or in
my name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy ofthe same
writing. As to the government and laws among them, I told them I
was not capable of giving them better rules than they were able to give
themselves; only I made them promise me to live in loveand good neigh-
bourhood with one another; and so I prepared to leave them.

One thingImustnotomit, and thatiathatbeingnowaettledina
kind of commonwealth among themselves, and having much business
in hand, it was odd to have seven-andtthirty Indians live in a. nook
of the island, independent, and, indeed, unemployed; for, excepting the
providing themselves food, which they had difficulty enough to do, some-
timestheyha'dnomannerof business orpropertyto manage. Iproposed,
therefore, to the governor Spaniard. that he should go to them, with
Friday's tether, and propose to them to- remove, and either plant for
themselves, or be taken into their several families as servant's, to be
maintained for their labour, but without being absolute slaves; for-I
would not permit them to make them slaves by force, by any means;
because they had their liberty given them by capitnlation, as it were
articles of surrender, which they ought not to break.

They most willingly embraced' the proposal, and came all very cheer-
fully along with him: so we allotted them land and plantations, which
three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed as servants.
inthe several families we had settled. Thus myoolonytrasina manner ,f
settled as follows :--The Spaniards possessed my originalhabitation, which .
was the capital city, and extended their plantations all along the aideot

395 . ,
the brook, which made the creek that I have so often described, as far as
my bower; and as they increased their culture, it went always eastward.
The English lived in the north-east part, where Will Atkins and his
comrades began, and came on southward and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards; and every plantation had a great addition
of'land to take in, if they found occasion, so that they need not jostle
one another for want of room. All the east end of the island was led
uninhabited, that if any of the savmcs should come on shore there only
for their usual .customary barbarities, they might come and go; if they
disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them: and no doubt but they
were often ashore, and went away again; for I never heard that the
planters were ever attacked or disturbed anymore.

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend the
clergyman that the work of converting the savages might perhaps be set
on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, and I told him that now I thought
that it was put in a fair way; for the savages, being thus divided among
the Christians, if they Would but every one of them do their part with
those which came under their hands, I hoped it might have n veryg <<cod
effect.

He agreed presently in that, if they did their part. " But how," says he,
" shall we obtain that of them?" I told him we would call them all
together, and leave it in charge with them, or go to them, one by one,
which he thought best; so we divided it,--he to speak to the Spaniards,
who were all Papists, and I to speak to the English, who were all
Protestants; and we recommended it earnestly to them, and made them
promise that they would never make any distinction of Papist or Pro-
testant in their exhorting the savages to turn Christians, but teach them
the general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus Christ;
.and they likewise promised us that they would never have any differences
or disputes one with another about religion.

When I came to Will Atkins's house, I found there the young woman
I have mentioned above, and Will Atkins's wife, were become intimates;
.and this prudent, religious young woman had perfected the work Will
Atkins had begun; and though it was not above four days after what
I have related, yet the new-baptized savage woman was made such a
Christian as I have seldom heard of' in all my observation oi- conversation
:in the world. It came next into my mind in the morning before I

went to them, that amongst all the needful things I had to leave with
m
them, I had not left them a. Bible, in which I showed myself less
considering for them than my good friend the widow was 1} r me when
she sent me the cargo of a hundred pounds from Lisbon, where she packed
up three Bibles and a Prayer-book. However, the good woman's charity
had a greater extent than ever she imagined, for they were reserved for the
comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of them than

I had done.

"'"l'EE'mW'e . .

f \ "w"

 

cnumn HUT)! WILL ATKINS A BIBLE

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to Will
Atkins's tent, or house, and found the young woman and Athins's baptized
wife had been cliscoursing of religion together--for Will Atkins told
it me with a great deal of joy--I asked if they were together now, and

be said, yes; so I went into the house, and he with me, and we found
397 '
them together very earnest in discourse. "Oh, sir," says Will Atkins,
"when God has sinners to reconcile to himself, and aliens to bring home,
he never wants a messenger; my wife has got a new instructor: I knew
I was unworthy as I was incapable of that work; that young woman has
been sent hither from heaved--she is enough to convert a whole island of
savages." The young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I
desired her to sit still; I told her she had a good work upon her hands,
and I hoped God would bless her in it.

We talked a little, and I did not perceive that they had any book among
them, though I did not ask; but I put my hand into my pocket, and pulled
out my Bible; "Here," said I to Atkins, "I have brought you an assistant
that perhaps you had not before." The man was so confounded, that he
was not able to speak for some time; but, recovering himself, he takes
it with both his hands, and turning to his wife, " Here, my dear," says he,
" did not I tell you our God, though he lives above, could hear what we
have said? Here's the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled down
under the bush; now God has heard us, and sent it." When he had said
so, the man fell into such passionate transports, that between the joy
of having it, and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his face like
a child that was crying.

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a mistake that
none of us were aware of : for she firmly believed God had sent the book
upon her husband's petition. It is true that providentially it was so, and
might be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would have been
no difficult matter at that time to have persuaded the poor woman to have
believed that an express messenger came from Heaven on purpose to
bring that individual book. But it was too serious a matter to suffer
any delusion to take place, so I turned to the young woman, and told
her we did not desire to impose upon the new convert in her first and more
ignorant understanding of things, and begged her to explain to her that
God may be very properly said to answer our petitions. when, in the course
of his providence, such things are in a particular manner brought to pass
as we petitioned for: but we did not expect returns from Heaven in a
miraculous and particular manner, and it is a mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards ed'ectually, so that there was no
priestcruft used here; and I should have thought it one 'of the mod
unjustifiable frauds in the world to have had it so. But the effect upon

Will Atkins is really not to be expressed; and there we may be sure was
ans
no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the world for any
thing of. its kind than he was for the Bible,---nor, I believe, never any mat.
was glad of a Bible from a better principle; and though he had been a
most profiigate creature, headstrong, furious, andidesperately wicked, yet
thiamanisastandingrule to us all for the wellinstructing childrennriz.
that parents should never give over to teach and instruct, nor ever despair
of the success of their endeavours, let the children be ever so refinetory, or
m appearance insensible to instruction; for, if ever God, in his providence,
touches the conscience of such, the force of their education returns upon
them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost, though it may have
been many years laid asleep, but some time or other they may find the'
benefit of it. Thus it was with this poor man: however ignorant he was
of religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had some to do with now
more ignorant than himself, and that the least part of the instruction'of his
good father that now came to his mind was of use to him.

Among the rest, it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to insist
so much on the inexpressible value of the Bible, and the privilege and _
blessing of it to nations, families, and persons, but he never entertained
the least notion of the worth of it till now, when being to talk to heathens,
savages, and barbarians, he wanwd the help of the written oracle for his
assistance. The young woman was glad of it also for the present occasion,
though she had one, and so had the youth, on how our ship among their
goods, which were not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so
many things of this young woman, I cannot omit mung one story more of
her and myself, which has something in it very instructive and remarkable-

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was reduced;
how her mistress was starved to death, and died on board that unhappy ship
we met at sea, and how the whole ship's company was mduced to the last
extremity. The gentlewoman, and her son, and this maid, were first hardly_
used as to provisions, and at last totally neglected and starved--that is to
say, brought to the last extremity of hunger. One day, being discoursing
with her on the extremities they suil'emd, I asked her if she could describe,
by what she had felt, what it was to starve, and how it appeared? She
said she believed she could, and told her tale very distinctly thus: -- - .

"First, we had for some days fared exceeding hard, and suffered very A
great hunger , but at last we were wholly without food of any kind, except
sugar, and a little wine-and-wateu The first day after I had received no
food at all, I found myself, towards evening, empty and sick at the stomach, -
and nearer night much inclined to yawning and sleep. I lay down on the
couch in the great cabin to sleep, and slept about three hours, and awaked
a little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine when I lay_down {after
being about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in-the morning,
I found myself empty, and my stomach sickish, and lay down again, but
could not sleep at all, being very faint and ill; and thus I continued all the
second day with a strange variety,--first hungry, then sick again, with
rctchings to vomit. The second night, being obliged to go to bed again
without any food, more than a draught of fresh water, and being asleep, I
dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was mightily stocked
with provisions; that I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined
very heartily. I thought my stomach was fall after this, as it would have
been after a good dinner; but when I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in
my spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last glass of
wine we had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of its having some spirit
to supply nourishment; but there being no substance in the stomach for
the digesting office to work upon, I found the only affect of the wine was
to raise disagreeable fumes from the stomach into the head; and I lay, as
they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk, for some time. The third
day, in the morning, after a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent
dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and furious
with hunger; and I question, had not my understanding returned and
conquered it, whether, if I had been a mother, and had had a little child
with me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted about three
hours, during which time I was twice raging mad as any creature in
Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as he can now inform you.

" In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I fell down and struck
my face against the corner of a pallet-bed, in which my mistress lay, and
with the blow the blood gushed out of my nose; and the cabin-boy
bringing me a little basin, I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as
the blood came from me, I came to myself, and the violence of the flame or
fever I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then I
grew sick, and retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my
stomach to bring up. After I had bled some time I swooned, and they all
behaved I was dead; but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most
dreadful pain in my stomach not to be described--not like the colic, but a
gnawing. eager pain for food ; and towards night it went off with a kind of

earnest wishing or longing for food. I took another draught of water with
<<no
guga'l' in it; but my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again,
then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that stayed with me;
and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most heartily that it would
please God to take me away; and composing my mind in hopes of it,
I slumbered awhile, and then waking, thought myself dying, being light
with vapours from an empty stomach I recommended my soul then to
God, and then earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into the
sea.

" All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring, but
she bore it with much more patience than I, and gave the last bit of bread
she had left to her child, my young master, who would not have taken it,
but she obliged him to eat it; and I believe it saved his life. Towards the
morning I slept again; and when I awoke I fell into a violent passion of
crying, and after that had a second fit of violent hunger. I got up ravenous,
and in a most dreadful condition; and once or twice I was going tobite
myownarm. AtlastIsawthebasinin which was the blood I hadhled
atmy nose the daybefore: Iran to it, and swallowed it with suchhaste,
and such a greedy appetite, as if I wondmd nobody had taken it before,
and afraid it should be taken from me now. After it was down, though the
thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I
took another draught of water, and was composed and refreshed tor some
hours after. This was the fourth day; and thus I kept up till towards
night, when, within the compass of three hours, I had all the several
circumstances over again, one after another, viz. sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry,
pain in the stomach, then ravenous again. then sick, then lunatic, then
crying, then ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour, and my
strengthwastedexeeedingly; at night Ilayme down-havingno comfort
but' in the hope that I should die before morning.

"AllthisnightIhadnosleep; but thehungerwasnowturuedintoa
disease, and I had a terrible colic and griping, bywindinstead of food
having found its way into the bowels; and in this condition I lay till
morning,wheanas surprisedbythecries and lamentations of myyoung
master,who called outto methathismotherwas dead. Ilifiedmyself up
ahttlaforlhadnot strength to rise,but found she was not dead,though
shewasabletogiveverylittlesigns of life. Ihad then such convulsions-
inmystomachforwantofsomesustenmeaaslcaunotdescribe; with
mohfiequentthroes and pangs of appetite, as nothingbut thstortures of
deathoeuimitate; and inthis condition Iwas when Iheardtheseamen

401 I) D
above cry out, ' A sail! a sail!' and halloo and jump about as if they were
distracted I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much
less; and my young master was so sick, that I thought he had been ex-
piring; so we could not open the cabin door, or get any account what it
was that occasioned such confusion; nor had we had any conversation with
the ship's company for two days, they having told us that they had not
a mouthful of anything to eat in the ship; and this they told us after-
wards,---they thought we had been dead. It was this dreadful condition
we were in when you were sent to save our lives; and how you found us,
sir, you know as well as I, and better too."

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to
death, as, I confess, I never met with, and was exceeding instructive to me.
I am the rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the youth
gave me an account of a good part of it; though I must own, not so
distinct and so feeling as the maid; and the rather, because it seems his
mother fed him at the price of her own life: but the poor maid. whose
constitution was stronger than that of her mistress, who was in years, and
a weakly woman too, might struggle harder with it; nevertheless, she might
be supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her mistress, who
might be allowed to keep the last bit something longer than she pamd with
any to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here related, if our
ship, or some other, had not so providentially met them, but a few days more
would have ended all their lives. I now return to my disposition of' things
among the people. And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many
reasons I did not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I had
framed, and which I thought of setting up among them; for I found, at
least at my first coming, such seeds of division among them, that I saw
plainly, had I set up the sleep, and left it among them, they would, upon
every light disgust, have separated, and gone away from one another; or
perhaps have turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves.
instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I intended it; nor
did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the extra
two quarter-deck guns that my nephew had provided, for the same masoa.
I thought it was enough to qualify them for a defensive war against any
that should invade them, but not to set them up for an offensive war, or to
go abroad to attack others : which, in the end, would only bring min and
destruction upon them. I reserved the sleep, therefore, and the guns, for

their service another way, as I shall observe in its place.
402
Having now done with the island, I left them all in good circumstances,
and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship again on the 6th
of May, having been about twenty-five days among them: and as they
were all resolved to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I

 

CHUSOE BIDS A LAST PAH-15W" TO THE ISLAND.

promised to send them further relief from the Brazils, if I could possibly
find an opportunity. I particularly promised to send them some cattle,
such as sheep, hogs, and cows: as to the two cows and calves which I
13'0th from England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage,

to kill them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.
403
Tho next day, giving them a salute of live guns at parting, we set sail,

and arrived at the bay of All Saints in the Brazils, in about twenty-two
days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but this : that about three
<<lays after we had sailed, being becalmed, and the current setting strong to
the ENE, running, as it were, into a buy, or gulf on the land side, we were
driven something out of our course, and once or twice our men cried out,
'Lcnd to the eastward ! " but whether it was the continent or islands we
could not tell by any means. But the third day. towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards
the land with something very black; not being able to discover what it
was, till after some time, our chief mate, going up the main-shrouds a little
wa , and looking at them with a perspective, cried out it was an army. I
could not imagine what he meant by an army, and thwarted him a little
hastily. "Nay, sir," says he, " don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them
paddle along, for they are coming towards us apace."

I was a little surprised then indeed, and so was my nephew, the
captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island, and
having never been in those seas before, that he could not tell what to think
of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be devoured. I must
confess, considering we were becalmed, and the current set strong towards
the shore, I liked it the worse; however, I bade them not be afraid, but
bring the ship to an anchor as soon as we came so near as to know that we
must engage them. The weather continued calm, and they came on apnea
towards us, so I gave orders to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails; as
for the savages, I told them they had nothing to fear but fire, and therefore
they should get their boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and
the other by the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that
posture: this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready with sheets
and buckets to put out any fire these savages might endeavour to fix to the
outside of the ship. _

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up
with us ; but never was such horrid sight seen by Christians: though my
mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their number, yet when they
came up we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six canoes; some of
them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least
six or seven. When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with

wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never
404
seen before; nor could they at first, as we afterwards understood, know
What to make of us; they came boldly up, however, very near to us, and
seemed to go about to row round us; but we called to our men in the
boats not to let them come too near them. This very order brought us to
an engagement with them, without our designing it; for five or six of the
large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men beckoned with their
hands to keep them back, which they understood very well, and went

 

mnn I5 KILLED.

back: but at their retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those
boats, and one of our men in the long boat was very much wounded.
However, I called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed down
some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a. kind
of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of the savages,
if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern of

us and so near that we could easily discern what they were, though we
405
could not tell their design; and I easily found they were some of my old
friends, the same sort of savages that I had been used to engage with. In a
short time more they rowed a little further out to sea, till they came directly
broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so
near that they could hear us speak; upon this I ordered all my men to keep
close, lest they should shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready;
but being so near as to be within hearing; I made Friday go out upon the
deck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know what they meant.
Whether they understood him or not, that I knew not; but as soon as he
had called to them, six of them, who were in the foremost or nighest boat to
us, turned their canoes from us, and stooping down, showed us their naked
backs; whether this was a defiance or challenge we knew not, or whether
it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest: but immediately
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him, poor
fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and, to my inex-
pressihle grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight The
poor fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and about three more
fell very near him; such unlucky marksmen they were !

I was so annoyed at the loss of my old trusty servant and companion,
that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and four
with great, and gave them such a broadside as they had never heard in
their lives before. They were not above half a cable's length ofi' when we
fired; and our gunners took their aim so well, that three or four of their
canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot only.
The ill manners of turning up their bare backs to us gave us no great
ofi'ence; neither did I know for certain whether that which would pass for
the greatest contempt among us might be understood so by them or not;
therefore, in return, I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at
them with powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufficiently:
but when they shot at us directly with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely loved
and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought myself not only
justifiable before God and man, but would have been very glad if I could
have overset every canoe there, and dimmed every one of them.

5 I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded at
this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never were seen among such
amultitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split and overset

in all, and the men all set a-swimming: the rest, frightened out of their
406cnnson TAKES LEAVE mt ms FAX-TH! Ul. SERVAH.

wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save those
whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose that many
of them were lost ; and our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his
life, above an hour after they were all gone. The small shot from our
cannon must needs kill and wound a great many; but, in short, we never
knew how it went with them, for they fled so fast, that in three hours, or
thereabouts, we could not see above three or four straggling canoes, nor 'did
we ever see the rest any more; for a breeze of Wind springing up the same
evening, we weighed, and set sail for the Brazils.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he would
neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve himself to death.
But I took a way to cure him: for I made them take him and turn him

into the long-boat, and make him believe they would toss him into the sea
'07
again, and so leave him where they found him, if he would not speak; nor
would that do, but they really did throw him into the sea, and came away
from him. Then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to
them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what he said;
however, at last they took him in again, and then he began, to be more
tractable: nor did I ever design they should drown him.

- We were now under sail again, but I was the most diaconsolate creature
alive for want of my man Friday, and would have been very glad to have
gone back to the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence for my
occasion, but it could not be: so we went on. We had one prisoner, as
I have said, and it was a long time before we could make him understand
anything; but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he began to
be a little tractable Afterwards, we inquired what country he came from,
but could make nothing of what he said; for his speech was so odd, all
gutturals, and he spoke in the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we
could never form a word afier him; and we were all of opinion that they
might speak that language as well if they were gagged as otherwise; nor
could we perceive that they had any occasion either for teeth, tongue-lips,
or palate, but formed their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune with
an open throat. He told us, however, some time after, when we had taught
him to speak a little English, that they were going with their kings to fight
a great battle. When he said kings, we asked him how many kings? He
said they were five nation (we could not make him understand the plural s),
and that they all joined to go against two nation. We asked him what
made them come up to us? He said, " To makee to great wonder look"
Here it is to be observed, that all those natives, as also those of Africa,
when they learn English, always add two e's at the end of the words where
we use one; and they place the accent upon them, as makee, takee, and- the
like; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it ofl', though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave
of him. Poor honest Friday! We buried him with all the decency and
solemnity possible, by putting him into a oofin, and throwing him into the
sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for him. So ended the life of the
most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever
man had.

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about twelve
days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south of the line,

being the north-easternmost land of all that part of America We kept on
408OI 3031:8801? 0317303.

3, by E, in sight of the shore four days, when we made Cape St. Augustine,
undin three days cameto ananchorofi'thebay ofAllSaintsthe oldplace
of my deliverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate. Never
shjpeamefo this port-that had less businessthan Ihad,andyetitwas
with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold the least correspondence

on shore: not my partner himself, who was alive, and made a great figure
among them, not my two merchant-trustees, not the fame of my wonderful

preservation in the island, could obtain me that favour. My partner, how-
ever, rememberingthatlhad given five hundred moidores to the Prior of
the Monastery of the Angustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was to go to
the governor, and get leave for me personally, with the captain and one
more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more; and this upon
condition, absolutely capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any
goods out of the ship, or to carry any person away without licence. They
were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, that itwaswith extreme '
difficulty that I got on shore three bales ofEnglish goods,'such as fine
broadcloths, stufi's, and some linen, which I had brought for a present to
my partner. '

He was a very generous, open-hearted man, although he began, like me,
with little at first. Though he knew not that I had the least design of
giving him anything, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty moidores, including some tobacco,
and three or four fine medals of gold: but I was even with him in my
present, which, as I have said, consisted of fine broadcloth, English stuffs,
lace, and fine holland; also, I delivered him about the value of one hundred
pounds sterling, inthesamegmdaforotheruses; andIobligedhimtoset
up the sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of mycolony,in order to send therefreshmentsl intendedto
my plantation

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few days,
forshewasalreadyflamed; andIgavethemasterof hsrsuchinstructions
thatheoonldnotmisstheplace; nordidhe, asI hadanaccountflommy
permerafterwards. I gothim soon loadedwiththesmallcargolsentthem;
andone ofour seamen,that had been on shorewithmethere, ofi'eredtogo
with the sleep and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard, to
allot him a sufiicient quantity of land for a plantation, and on my giving
him some clothes and tools for his planting work, which 'he'said he under-

409
stood, having been an old planter at Maryland, and a hucaneer into th.
bargain I encouraged the fellow by granting all he desired; and, as an
addition, I gave him the savage whom we had taken prisoner of war, to be
his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him his share of every.
thing he wanted with the rest.

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me there was a
certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaintance, who had
fallen into the displeasure of the church. " I know not what the matter is
with him," says he, " but, on my conscience, I think he is a heretio in his
heart, and he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition"
He then told me that he would be very glad of such an opportunity to make
his escape, with his wife and two daughters; and if I would let them go to
my island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them a small stock to
begin with,--for the officers of the Inquisition had seized all his effects and
estate, and he had nothing left but a little household stud, and two slaves;
" and," adds he, " though I hate his principles, yet I would not have him
fall into their hands, for he will be assuredly burned alive if he does." I
granted this presently, and oined my Englishman with them: and we
concealed the man, and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till the
sloop put out to go to sea; and then having put alltheirgoods onboaul
some time before, we put them on board the sloop after she was got out of
the bay. Our seamen was mightily pleased with this new partner; and
their stocks, indeed, were much alike, rich in tools, in preparations, and u
farm--but nothing to begin with, except as above: however, they carried
over with them, what was worth all the rest, some materials for planting
sugar-canes, with some plants of canes, which he, I mean the Brazil
planter, understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the island, I sent
them by the sloop three milch cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs
among them, three sows, two mares, and a. stone-horse. For my Spaniards
according to my promise, I engaged three Brazil women to go, and recom-
mended it to them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more women, but I remembered that the poor persecuted man had
two daughters, and that there were but five of the Spaniards that wanted
partners,--the rest had wives of their own, though in another country. All
this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, was very welcome
to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition, between sixty and
seventy people, besides little children, of which there were a great many,

do
ImundIettea-satlondonfromthem dLbywayofIisbonwhen I came
necktoEngland.

Ihavemwdonewiththeishndaudallmannerof discourseaboutit:
dehoeverreads therestof mymemorandums woulddowelltoturnhis
thoughts entirelyfrom it,and expeettoreadofthe follies ofanold man,
notwamedbyhisownharmamuchlessbythoseofother memtobeware;
not cooled by almost forty years' miseries and disappointments--mot satisfied
withprosperity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afiictions and
distress beyond example.

IhadnomorebusinesstogototheEastIndiesthanamanatfull
libertyhostogotothe turnkeyatNewgate, enddesirehimtolockhimup
among the prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel
from Englandand gone directlyto the island; had I loaded her,asIdid
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation, and for my
people; taken a patent from the government here to have secured my
property, in subjection only to that of England; had I-oarried over cannon
and ammunition, servants and people to plant, and taken possession of the
place, fortified and strengthened it in the name of England, and increased it
with people, as I might easily have done; had I then settled myself there,
andsent the ship back laden with good rice,asImightalsohavedonein
six months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her out again for
our supply,----had I done this, and stayed there myself, I had at least acted
like a man of common sense. But I was possessed of a wandering spirit,
nndsoornedslladvantages: I pleased myself withbeingthepatronof the
peopleIplaced theraanddoing forthemin akindofhaughty,majeatic
, way, like an old patriarchal monarch, providing for them as if I had been

father of the whole family, as well as of the plantation. But I neverso
much as pretended to plant in the name of any government or nation, or to
acknowledge any prince, or to call my people subjects to anyone nation '
morethan another: nay, I neverso much asgave the place a namahut
left it as I found it, belonging to nobody, and the people under no discipline
01' government but my own; who, though I had influence over them as a
father and benefactor, had no authority or power to act or command one
way or other, further than voluntary consent moved them to comply. Yet
even this,had I stayed there, would have done well enough; but asI
rambled from them, and came there no more, the last letters I had from any
of them were by my partrier's means, who afterwards sent mothersloopto

thephcaand who sent me wordthoughI hadnotthelettertilllgot'to
"i
London, several years after it was written, that they went on but poorly.
were discontent with their long stay there: that Will Atkins was dead.
that five of the Spaniards were come away,--and though they had not been
much molested by the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with
them; andthattheybeggedofhim towritetometothinkof thepromng
I had made to fetch them away, that they might see their country again
before they died.

But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed! and they that will have any
more of me. must be content to follow me into a new variety- of tbllieg
hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be
duly observed; and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our
own desires, make the strongest of our wishes be our affliction, and punish
us most severely with those very things which we think it would be our
utmost happiness to be allowed to possess. Whether I had business or no
business, away I went: it is no time now to enlarge upon the reason or
absurdity of my own conduct, but to come to the history,--I was embarked
flat the voyage, and the voyage I went.

I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest Popish clergy-
man--for let their opinions of us, and all other heretics in general, as they
call us. he as uncharitable as it may, I verily believe this man was very
sincere, and wished the good of all men: yet I believe he used reserve in
many of his expressions, to prevent giving me offence; for I scarce heard
him once call on the Blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago, or his guardian
angel, though so common with the rest of them. However, I say, I had
not the least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions: and I am firmly
of opinion, if the rest of the Popish missionaries were like him, they would
strive to visit even the poor Tartars and Leplanders, where they have nothing
to give them, as well as covet to dock to India, Persia, China, <<he. the most
wealthy of the heathen countries; for if they expected to bring no gains
to their churchhyititmaywellbe admiredhowtheycame to admit the
Chinese Confucius into the calendar of the Christian saints.

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious priest asked me leave
to go thither; being still, as he observed, bound nevertofinish anyvoyage
he began. How happy it had been for me if I had gone with him! But
it was too late now: all things Heaven appoints for the best: had I gone
with him, I had never had so many things to be thankful'for, and. the reader
had never heard of the second part of the travels and adventures of Robin-

son Crusoe; so I must here leave exclaiming at myself, and go on with my
' 412
voyage- From the Brazils, we made directly over theAtlantic Sea to the
CapeowadHopeandhadatolemblygoodvoyageoureoursegenerally
south-eastmowandthenastomandsomseontmrywindszbutmydisas-
tersetseawere atmenfi--myfhtnrembsandcrosseventsweretobetall
me on shore, that it might appear thelandwaeaewell preparedtebeour
soonrgeasthesea

Ourehipwas on ahadingvoyagamdhadampemrgomboulwhe
was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only being
limited toe certain number of days for stay,by charter-party. atthesevera'i:
porteshewastogoto. Thiswaenoneofmybusiness,neitherdidlmeddle
with it; my nephew, the captain, and the supercorgo, adjusting all those
things between themesthey thought fit. We stayedattheCapenolony
thanwasneedfultotekeinfreshwater,hutmedethebest of ourwayfio'r'
the coast of Commands]. We were. indeed, informed that a French man-
of-war,offiflygnnaandtwohrgememhantshipaweregoneforthelndiee;
audaeI knewwewere atwarwith France,I had some apprehensioneof
them;buttheywentthsirownway,audweheerdnomoreofthem.

IshaJlnotpesterthe readerwithabdious deseriptionofplaceajour-
uals of our voyages, variations of the compass, latitudes, trade-winds, &e.;
itisenoughto name the ports and places which we hushed at,'and what
occurred to us upon our passage from one to another. We touched first
ettheislandofMadageecar, whuethoughthepeopleareflerceand
treacherous; and verywellanned with lances and hows,which they use
with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile.
They treated us very civilly; and for some triflee which we gave them,
mohaskniveascissomamtheybroughtus eleven goodfat bunoekaofa
middfingdmwhichwe tookin,partly for fresh provisionaforour present
spending, andthereettosalt for the ship'suee. .

Wewere obligedto stayheresometimeefterwehadfumishedour-
selves with provisions; and I, who was always too curious to look into
every nookoftheworldwhereverIeemawenton shoreas ofieuesI
could. Itwesontheeeetsideoftheislandthatwewentonshoreone
evening: and the people, who; by the way, are very numerous, ems
thmngingaboutuaandstoodgazingatusatadistauee. Aswehadtueded
freelywith them, anth been kindlyused,we thought ourselves in no
danger; hutwhenwe sawthe people,wecut three boughs out ofa tree.
andstuelr'them up eta distance fmmus; which,itssems,isamarkin_
that country, not onlyof a truce and friendship; but when it is accepted.

'18
the other side set up three poles or boughs, which is a signal that they
accept the truce too; but then this is a known condition of the truce, that
you are not to pass beyond their three poles towards them, nor they to come
past your three poles, or boughs, towards you; so that you are perfectly
secure within the three poles, and all the space between your poles and
theirs is allowed like a market for free converse, trailic, and commerce
When you go there, you must not carry your weapons with you; and if
they come into that space, they stick up their javelins and lances all at the
first poles, and come on unarmed; but if any violence is ofi'ered them, and
the truce thereby broken, away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their
weapons, and the trace is at an end.

It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that a greater number
of their people came down than usual, but all very friendly and civil; and
they brought several kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied them with
such toys as we had; the women also brought as milk and roots, and several
things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and we made us a little
tent or but of some boughs or trees, and lay on shore all night. I know
not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satisfied to lie on shore as
the rest; and the boat ridm at an anchor at about a stone's cast from the
land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of them come
on shore; and getting some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat.
I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the
branches of the trees all night in the boat.

About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of our men make a
terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's sake, to bring the boat in.
and come and help them, for they were all like to be murdered; at the same
time, I heard the fire of five muskets, which was the number of guns they
had, and that three times over; for, it seems, the natives here were not so
easily frightened with guns as the savges were in America, where I had to
do with them. All this while I knew not what was the matter, but musing
immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in,
and resolved, with three fusees we had on board, to land and assist our
men. We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too much
haste; for being come to the shore, they plunged into the water, to get to
the boat with all the expedition they could, being pursued by between'thret
and four hundred men. Our men were but nine in all, and only five 01
them had fusees with them; the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, bul

they were of small use to them.
414
We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enough too, three oi
them being very ill wounded; and that which was still worse was, that
while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as much danger
as they were in on shore; for they poured their arrows in upon us so thick
that we were glad to barricade the side of the boat up with the benches,
and two or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we had by
mere accident in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it
seems, such exact marksman, that if they could have seen but the least
part of any of us, they would have been sure of us. We had, by the light
of the moon, 9. little sight of them, as they stood pelting us from the shore.

 

THE SAXLORS MAKE: Tflcflt Issue WITH rm: BOAT.

with darts and arrows; and having got ready our fire-arms, we gave them
a volley, that we could hear, by the cries of some of them, had wounded
several; however, they stood thus in battle array on the shore till break of
day, which we supposed was that they might see-the better to take their
aim at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor, or
set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the boat, and they were
as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot. We
made signals of distress to the ship, and, though she rode a league off, yet
my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving the
posture we lav in. and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well under-

415
stood us; and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore in
he dnrst with the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in her,
to assist us We called to them not to come too near, telling them what
condition we were in; however, they stood in near to us, and one of the
men taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping one boat between
him and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board
us, and made fast the line to the boat; upon which we slipped out a little
cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of the
arrows; we all the while lying close behind the barricade we had made
As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that we could
lay her side to the shore, she ran along just by them, and poured in a broad-
side among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lend, small bullets, and
such stuff, besides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among them.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had time to examine
into the occasion of this fray; and, indeed, our supercargo, who had been
often in those parts, put me upon it ; for he said he was sure the inhabitants
would not have touched us after we had made a truce, if we had not done
something to provoke them to it At length, it came out that an old woman,
who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, and a
young woman with her, who also brought some roots or herbs; and while
the old woman (whether she was mother to the young woman or no they
could not tell) was selling us the milk, one of our men ofl'ered some rudeness
to the girl that was with her, at which the old woman made a great noise:
however, the seamen would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old
woman's sight among the trees, it being almost dark; the old woman went
away without her, and, as we may suppose, made an outcry among the
people she came from; who, upon notice, raised this great army upon us in
three or four hours, and it was great odds but we had all been destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance thrown at him just at the
beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had made; the
rest came 011' free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief.
who paid dear enough for his brutality, for we could not hear what became
of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days after, though
the wind presented, and made signals for him, and made our'boat sail up
shore and down shore several leagues, but in vain; so we were obliged to
give him over; and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had been less.
I could not satisbv myself, however, without venturing on shore once more,

to tryif I could learn anything of him or them: it was the third night
no
after the action that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any means,
what mischief we had done, and how the game stood on the Indians' side.
I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again: but I
ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men I went with had been under
my command, before I engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischievous as
I was brought into by it, Without design.

We took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the
snpercaigo and myself, and we landed two hours before midnight, at the
same place where the Indians stood drawn up in the evening before. I

 

landed here, because my design, as I have said, was chiefly to see if they
had quitted the field, and if they had left any marks behind them of the
mischief we had done them; and I thought if we could surprise one or two
of them, perhaps we might get our man again, by way of exchange.

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two bodies,
whereof the boatswazin commanded one, and I the other. We neither saw
nor heard anybody etir when we landed: and we marched up, one body at
a distance from the other, to the place. At first we eculd see nothing, it being
very dark; till by-and--by our beatswain, who led the first party, stumbled

and fell over a dead body. This made them halt awhile; for knowing by
"7 r. H
the circumstances that they were at the place where the Indians had stood.
they waited for my coming up there. We concluded to halt till the moon
began to rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour, when we could
easily discern the havoc we had made among them. We told thirty-two
bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead; some had an
arm, and some a leg shot ofi', and one his head; those that were wounded,
we supposed, they had carried away. When we had made, as I thought. a
full discovery of all we could come to the knowledge of, I resolved on going
on board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that they were
resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they called
them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with them; and if they could find
them, as they still fancied they should, they did not doubt of getting a good
booty; and it might in they might find Tom Jefl'ry there: that was the
man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well mongh what answer
to have given them; for I should have commanded theminstantly on board.
knowing'it was not a hazard fit for us to run, who had a ship and ship-
loading in our charge, and a voyage to make which depended very much
upon the lives of the men; abut as they sent me word they were resolved to
go, and only asked me andany company to go along withtfliem, I positively
refuseditmdarose up, for I was sitting on the ground,'rimorder to go to the
boat. fine or :two of themen began to importune me 'to go; and when]
refused, begautto grumble, and say they were not under my command, and
they would go. " Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go with mel
I'll go for one" J ask said he would--and then another,--and, in a word.
they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the
boat. So the supercargo and I, with the third man, went back to the boat,
where we told them we would stay for them, and take care to take in as
many of them as shouldbe left; for I told them it was a mad thing they were
going about, and supposed most of them would have the fate of Tom J efi'ry.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would come oil
again, and they would take care, &c.; so away they went I entreated them
to consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives were not their own, and
that they were intrusted with the voyage, in some measure; that if they
miscarried, the ship might be lost for want of their help, and that they
could not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well have talked to
the mainmast of the ship: they were mad upon their journey; only they

gave me good words, and begged I would not be angry; that they did not
us
doubt but they would be back again in about an hour at furthest; for the
Indian town, they said,was not above half a mile 011', though they found it
above two miles before they got to it.

Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was desperate, and
such as none but msdmen would have gone about, yet, to give them their
due, they went about it as warilysas boldly; they were gallantly armed, fior
they had every man s. fuses or musket, a bayonet, and 'a pistol; some of
them had broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers, and the boatswain and
two more had poleaxes ; besides all which, they had among them thirteen
hand grenadoes. Bolder fellows, and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world. When they went out, their chief design was
plunder, and they were in mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circum-
stance which none of them were aware of set them on fire with revenge, and
made devils of them all.

When they came to the few Indian houses which they thought had
been the town, which was not above half a mile off, they were under greet
disappointment, for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and
where the town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted, therefore,
what to do, and were some time before they could resolve; for if they fell
upon these, they must out all their throats; and it was tents one but some
of them might escape, it being in the night, though the moon was up; andif
one escaped, he would run and raise all the town, so they should have a
whole army upon them; on the other hand, if they went away and left
those untouched, for the people were all asleep, they could not tell which
way to look for the town: however, the last was the best advice, so they
resolved to leave them, and look for the town as well as they could. They
went on a. little way, and found a cow' tied to a tree; this, they presently
concluded, would be a. good guide to them; for, they said, the cow certainly
belonged to the town before them, or thetown behind them, and if they
untied her, they should see which way she went: if she went back, they
had nothing to say to her; but if she went forward, they would follow her.
So they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on
before them, directly to the town; which, as they reported, consisted of
above two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they found several
families living together.

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure assleep could make
them: and, first, they called another council, to consider what they had to

do; and presently resolved to divide themselves into three bodies, and so '
419
set three houses on fireinthreeparts of the town; and as the men came
out, to seize them and bind them (if any resismd, they need not be asked
what to do then), and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder: but
they resolved to march silently first through the town, and see what
dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon
them: but while they were animating one another to the work, three of
them, who were a little beihre the rest, called out aloud to them, and told
them, that they had found Tom J efl'ry : they all ran up to the place, where
they found the poor fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat
cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where they found sixteen
or seventeen of the principal Indians, who had been concerned in the fray
with us before, and two or three of them wounded with our shot; and
our men found they were awake, and talking one to another in that house
but knew not their number.

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as before,
that they swore to one another that they would he revenged, and that not
an Indian that came into their hands should have any quarter; and to
work they went immediately, and yet not so madly as might be expected
from the rage and fury they were in. Their first care was to get something
that would soon take fire, but, after a little search, they found that would
be to no purpose; for most of the houses were low, and thatched with
flags and rushes, of which the country is full; so they presently made
some wildfire, as we call it, by wetting a little powder in the palm of their
hands, and in a quarter of an hour they set the town on fire in four or five
places, and particularly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed

As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened creatures began
to rush out to save their lives, but met with their mt>> in the attempt; and
especially at the door, where they drove them back, the boatswain himself
killing one or two with his poleaxe. The house being large, and many in
it, he did not care to go in, but called for a hand grenado, and threw it
among them, which at first frightened them, but, when it burst, made such
havoc among them that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short, most
of the Indians who were in the open part of the house were filed or hurt
with the grenade, except two or three more who pressed to the door, which
the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets on the muzzles of
their pieces, and despatched all that came in their way; but there was

another apartment in the house, where the prince or king, or whatever he
<<10
was, and several others, were; and these were kept in till the house, which
was bythis time allin a light flame, fell in upon them, and they were
smothered together.

Allthiswhiletheyfirednot agun, because theywould notwakenthe
people faster than they could master them; but the fire began to waken
them that enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little together in
bodies; for the fire grew so raging, all the houses being made of light
combustible stuff, that they could hardly bear the street between them.
Their business was to follow the fire, for the sure:- execution: as fast as
the fire either forced the people out of those houses which were burning,
or frightened them out of others, our people were ready at their doors to
knock them on the head, still calling and hallooing one to another to
remember Tom Jeffry.

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and especially
when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night, seemed to be
close by me. My nephew, the captain, who was mused by his men, seeing
such a. fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or whet
danger I was in, especially hearing the guns too, for by this time they
began to use their fire-arms; a thousand thoughts oppressed his mind
concerning me and the supercergo, what would become of us; and at last,
though he could ill spare any more men, yet not knowing whet exigence
we might be in, he took another boat, and with thirteen men and himsel;
came ashore to me.

He was surprised to see me. and the snpercorgo in the boat with no
more than two men; and though he was glad that we were well, yet he
was in the same impatience with us to know what was doing;'for the
noise continued, and the flame increased; in short, it was next to an
impossibility for any men in the world to restrain their curiosity to know
what had happened, or their concern for the safety of the men: in a. word,
the captain told me he would go and help his men, let what would come.
I argued with him, as I did before with the men, the safety of the ship,
the danger of the voyage, the interest of the owners and merchants, &c.
nndtoldhimIsndthe two menwould go, and onlysee if we could at a
distance learn what was likely to be the event, and come back and tellh'im.
It was invain to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before;
he would go he said; and he only wished he hedleft but ten men in the ;
ship. for he could not think of having his men lost for want of help : he had

rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life, and all ; and away he went.
421
Iwasnomoreabletostayhehind now, than I was to persuade them
nottogo; sothe captain ordered two men to row back the pinnace, and
fetch twelve men more, leaving the long boat at an anchor; and that, when
they came back, six men should keep the two boats, and six more come
after us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the whole ship's
company consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the late
quarrel which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the march, we felt little of the ground we trod on; and
being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the place of
the flame If the noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of
the poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled uswith horror.
I must confess I was never at the sacking a city, or at the taking a townby
storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and
killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of Count 'l'illy sacking the
city of Magdeburg, and cutting the throats of twenty-two thousand, of all
sexes; but I never had an idea of the thing itself before, nor is it possible to
describe it, or the horror that was upon our minds at hearing it. However,
we went on, and at length came to the town, though there was no entering
the streets of it for the fire. The first object we met with was the ruins of
a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed; and
just before it, plainly now to be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men
and three women, killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay in the
heap among the fire; in short, there were such instances of rage, altogether
barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was human, that we thought
it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or, if they were the authors of
it, we thought they ought to be every one of them put to the worst of deaths
But this. was not all: we saw the fire increased forward, and the cry went
on just as the fire went on; so that we were in the utmost confusion. We
advanced a little way further, and behold, to our astonishment, three naked
women, and crying in a most dreadful manner, came flying as if they had
wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives in the same terror
and consternation, with three of our English butchers in the rear, who, when
they could not overtake them, fired in among them, and one that was killed
by their shot fell down in our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to
be their enemies, and that we would murder them as well as those that
pursued them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women;
and two of them fell down, as if already dead, with the fright.

My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins,

as '

10h nonmeos 030303.

whsnIsawthis; debdievahadthethreeEnglishsaflorsthatpusued
them come on, I hadmade our men killthem all; however, we took some
meanstoletthepoorflyingcreatures knowthatwewould nothurtthem;
and immediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands
lifted up, made piteous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them
know we would; whereupon they crept altogether in a huddle close behind
us, asforprotection. Ilei'c mymendrawnup together,and,chargingthem .
mhm'tnobody, hutif possibletogetat someofonrpeople, and see what
devil it was posmd them, and what they intended to do, and to command
them ofi'; assuring them that ifthey stayed till daylight they would have a
hundred thousand men about their ears: I say I led: them, and went among
thoseflyingpeople, takingonlytwo of our men with me; and there was,
indeed, a piteous spectacle among them. Some of them had their feet
terribly burned with trampling and running through the fire; others their
hands burned; one of the women had fallen down in the fire, and was very
much burned before she could get out again; and two or three of the men
had outs in their backs and thighs, fi'om our men pursuing; and another
was shot through the body, and died while I was there.

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was; but I could
not understand one word they said; though, by signs, I perceived some of
them know not what was the occasion themselves. I was so terrified in my
thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I could not stay there, but went
back to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town,
through the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it,
cost what it would; accordingly, as I came back to my men,.I told them
my resolution, and commanded them 'to follow me, when, at the very
moment, came four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, roving
over heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if
they wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as
loud as they could halloo; and with much ado one of them made them
hear, so that they knew who we were, and came up to us.

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a shout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come ;' and, without waiting
to hear me, " Captain," says he, " noble captain l I am glad you are come;
We have not half done yet. Villanous, hell-hound dogs! I'll kill as many
Of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head: we have swornto eparenone
of them; we'll root out the very nation of them from the earth ; " andpthus'

he ran on, out of breath, too, with action, and would not give us leave to
423 .
speak a word. At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little,
" Barbarous dog!" said I, " what are you doing? I won't have one creature
touched more, upon pain of death: I charge you, upon your life, to stop
your hands, and stand still here, or you are a dead man this minute."
--" Why, sir," says he, " do you know what you do, or what they have
done? If you want a reason for what we have done, come hither; " and
with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging, with his throat cut. _

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time would have been
forward enough; but I thought they had carried their rage too far, and
remembered J acob's words to his sons Simebn and Levi: " Cursed be their
anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel." But I had now
a new task upon my hands; for when the men I carried with me saw the
sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have
had with the others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told
me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of the men being
overpowered; and as to the people, he thought not one of them ought to
live ; for they had all glutted themselves with the murder of the poor man,
and that they ought to be used like murderers. Upon these words, away
ran eight of my men, with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their
bloody work ; and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came
away pensive and sad ; for I could not bear the sight, much less the horrible
noise and cries of the poor wretches that fell into their hands.

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men,
and with these walked back to the boat. It was a very great piece of folly
in me, I confess, to venture back as it were alone; for as it began now to
be almost day, and the alarm had run over the country, there stood about
forty men armed with lances and bows, at the little place where the twelve
or thirteen houses stood, mentioned before; but by accident I missed the
place, and came directly to the seaside, and by the time I got to the sea-
side, it was broad day: immediately I took the pinnace and went on board,
and sent her back to assist the men in what might happen. I observed,
about the time that I came to the boat-side, that the fire was pretty well
out, and the noise abated ; but in about half an hour after I got on board, I
heard a volley of our men's firearms, and saw a great smoke. This, as I
understood afterwards, was our men falling upon the men,,who, as I said,
stood at the few houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or seven-
teen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not meddle with the women or
children.

424
By the time the man got to the shore again with the pinnace, our men
begantoappeer; theycame dropping' in, not mtwobodies as theywent,
but straggling here and there in such a manner, that a small force of
resolute men might have cut them all 011'. But the dread of them was upon
the whole country, and the men were surprised, and so frightened, that I '
believe a hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our

men. Nor in all thisteuible aetionwastherea manthat made anycon-
siderable defence: they were so surprised between the terror of the fire and
the sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they knew not which wayto
turn themselves; for if they fled one way they were met by one party, '4' _
back again, by another: so that they were everywhere knocked down ; no.
did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one that sprained his
foot, and another that had one of his hands burned.

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, and, indeed, with all
the men, but with him in particular, as well for his acting so out'of his
duty, as commander of the ship, and having the charge of the voyage
uponhim,as in his promptingrather than cooling. the rage ofhis blind
men, in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me
very respectfully, but told me that when he saw the body of the poor
seamen whom they had murdered in so cruel and barbmus a manner,
he was not master of himself, neither could he govern his passion; he
owned he should not have done so, as he was commander of the ship;
but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it. As
for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me at all, and they knew
it well enough; so they took no notice of my dislike. The next day we
set sail, so we never heard any more of it. Our men differed in the
account of the number they had killed; but according to the best of
their accounts, put all together, they killed or destroyed about one hundred
and tidy people, men, women,-md children, and lefi; not a house standing
inthetown. .As for the poor fellow Tom Jefl'ry,as he was quite dead
(for his throat was so cut that his head was half'ofi'), it would do him' I
no treeaervicetobringhimawey; sothey onlytookhimdownfromthe ,;

treewhere he was hanging by one hand.

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in it,
and I always,a.iter that time, told them God would blast the voyage;
for I looked upon all the blood they shed that night to be murder in
them. For though it is: true that they had killed Tom Jeffry, yet Jefl'y>> ' '
"'88 the aggressor, had broken the fines, and had ill-used a young woman

' 4"
of theirs, who came down to them innocently,\and on the faith of the
public capitulation.

The boatst defended this quarrel when we were afierwards on board.
He said it was true that we seemed to break the truce, but really had
not; and that the war was begun the night before by the natives them-
selves, who had shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just
provocation; so that as we were in a capacity to fight them now, we
might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon them in an
extraordinary manner; that though the poor man had taken a littk
. liberty with the girl, he ought not to have been murdered, and that it
such a villanous manner: and that they did nothing but what was-just
and what the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. One
would think this should have been enough to have warned us against
going on shore amongst heathens and barbarians; butit is impossible
to make mankind wise but at their own expense, and their experience
seems to be always of most use to them when it is dearest bought

We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Commandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supercargo's design lay at the Bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outward-bound, he was to go out to China, and return to the
coast as he came home. The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf
of Persia, where five of our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian
side of the gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed,
or carried away into slavery; the rest of the boat's crew were not able
to rescue them, and had but just time to get ofi' their boat. I began to
upbraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in this case; but the
boatswain very warmly told me, he thought I- went further in my
censures than I could show any warrant for in Scripture; and referred
to Luke xiii. 4-, where our Saviour intimates that those men on whom
the Tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans;
but that which put me to silence in the case was, that not one of these
five men who were now lost were of those who went on shore to the
massacre of Madagascar, so I always called it, though our men could
not bear to hear the word massacre with any patience.

But my frequent'preaching to them on this subject had worse con-
sequences than I expected; and the boatswain, who had been the head
of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he found

that I broughtthat affair continually upon the stage; that I made unjust
428
 

reflections upon it, and had used the mortuary ill on that account, and
hhnselfinparticular; thatastasbutapassengenandhadno com-
mand in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to'
bearit; thatthey did notknow but I might have some ill designin my
headandperhapstocallthemtoanaccountforit when they cameto
England; and. that, therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with
it, andalsonotto concern myselfany furtherwith him, oranyofhis'
afl'airs, he would leave the ship; for he did not think it safe to sail with '
me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him that
Iconfessedlhadall along opposed the massacreof Madagascar, and that
I had, on all occasions, spoken my mind holy about it, though not more
upon him than any ofthe rest; that as toihaving no command in the
ship, that was true; nor did I exercise any authority, only took the liberty
of speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned as all; and what
concern I had in the voyage was none of his business; that I was a
considerable owner in the ship. In that claim, I conceived; I had a right
to speak even further thanIhad donaandwould notheaccbuntableto
him oranyoneelse,andbegan to bealittlewarmwithhim. Hemads
but little reply to me at that time, and I thought the affair had been over.
Wewereatthis time in the road at Bengal;andbeingwi11ingtowe
the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert
myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board, when one
of the men came to me, and told me he would not have me trouble myself
to come downtotheboatfor theyhad orders notto carryme onboard'
any more. Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent
a message; and I asked the man, who bade him deliver that message
to me? He told me the coxswain. '

I immediately found out the supemargo, and told him the story, adding,
that I foresaw there would be a mutiny in the ship; and PS9an him to
go immediame on board and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have
sparedthisintelligencs, forbefothadspokentohimonshorethematter
was efi'eoted on board The boatswain, the gunner,the carpenter, and all
the inferior ofioers, as soon as I was gone of in the boat, came up, and-
desiredtospeakwiththe captain; and then the hoatswain, makingalong',
hampguaand repeatingallhehadsaidtome,told the captain thatastas"
now gone peaceably on shone, they were 10th to use any violence with me,
Which, if I had not gone on shore, they would otherwise have donate 1"

' . M
oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him, that as
they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under his command, they
would perform it well and faithfully; but if I'would not quit the ship,
or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail
no further with him; and at that word all, he turned his face towards the
mainmast, which was, it seems, a signal agreed on, when the seamen, being
got together there, cried out, "Omamdall! mandaul".

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great presence of
mind; and though he was surprised, yet he told them calmly that he
would consider of the matter; but that he could do nothing in it till he had
spoken to me about it He used some arguments with them, to show them
the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing--but it was all in vain;
they swore, and shook hands round before his face, that they would all
go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to sufi'er me to come
any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and
did not know how I might take it. So he began to talk smartly to them;
told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship, and that if
ever they came to England again, it would cost them very deer; that the
ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it; and that he would
rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than disoblige me so much; so
they might do as they pleased. However, he would go on shore and talk
with me, and invited the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal, and
said they would have nothing to do with me any more; and if I came on
board, they would all go on shore. " Well," said the captain, " if you are
all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him." So away he
came to me with this account, a little afier the message had been brought
to me from the coxswain.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for I was not
without apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set sail,
and run away with the ship; and then I'had been shipped naked in a
remote country, having nothing to help myself; in short, I had been in
a worse case than when I was alone in the island. But they had not
come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction; and when my nephew
told me what they had said to him, and how they had sworn and shook
hands that they would, one and all, leave the ship, if I was suffered to

come on board, I told him he should not be concerned at it at all, for I
428 -
would stay on shore. I only desired he would take care and send me
allmynecessarythingsonshore, andleaveme a suflicient sum of money,
andeouldfindmywaytoE'nglandaswellasIcould. Thiswasa.
heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no way to help it but
to comply; so, in short, he went on board the ship again, and satisfied
the men that his uncle had yielded to their importnnity, and had sent
forhisgoods fromonboardthe ship; sothatthe matterwas overina
few hours, the men returned to their duty, and I began to consider what;
course I should steer.

I was now alone in a most remote part of the worldforlwas near
three thousand leagues by sea farther off from England, than I was at
my island; only, it is true, I might navel here by land over the Great
Mogul's country to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the
Gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans, over the Desert of
Arabia, to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence by sea again to Italy,
and so overland into France. I had another way before me, which was to
wait for some English ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on
the Island of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But
as I came hither without any concern with the East India Company, so it
would be difiicult to go from hence without their licence, unless with great
favour of the captains of the ships, or the company's factors; and to both
I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me; however,
my nephew lefi me two servants, or rather, one companion and one servant;
the first was clerk to the parser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the
otherwashisownservant Ithenteokagoodlodgingin the house of an
Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman Here I stayed above nine months,
considering what course to take. I had some English goods with me of
value, and a considerable sum of money; my nephew furnishing me with
a thousand pieceaof-eight, and a letter of credit for more, if 'I had occasion,
that I might not be straitened, whatever might happen. I quickly disposed
of my goods to advantage; and, as I originally intended, I bought here
some very good diamonds, which, of all other things, were the most preper -
for me in my present circumstances, because I could always carry my
whole estate about me.

Duringmy stay here, many proposals weremadefor myretumto
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who

429
lodged with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance
with, came to me one morning, saying: " Countryman, I have a project to
communicate, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for ought I know,
suit with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here
we are posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a part of the
world very remote from our own country; but it is in a country where, by
us, who understand trade and business, a great deal of money is to be got
If you will put one thousand pounds to my one thousand pounds, we will
hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds. You shall be captain,
I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China; for what should
we stand still for? The whole world is in motion; why should we be idle?"

I liked this proposal very well; and the more so because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will. In my loose, unhinged circumstances,
I was the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or indeed anything else
I might perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was not my element,
rambling was; and no proposal for seeing any part of the world which I
had never seen before could possibly come amiss to me. It was. however,
some time before we could get a ship to our minds, and when we had got a
vessel; it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as
were necessary to govern the voyage and manage the sailors which we
should pick up there. After some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a
gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three foremast men. With these
we found we could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they
were, to make up.

When all was ready we set sail for Achin, in the island of Sumatra
and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium
and some arrack; the first a commodity which bears a great price among
the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted there. Then we
went up to Saskan, were eight months out, and on our return to Benle
was very well satisfied with my adventure. Our people in England often
admire how ofiicers, which the Company send into India, and the merchants
which generally stay there, get such very great estates as they do, and
sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy thousand pounds at a time;
but it is little matter for wonder, when we consider the innumerable ports
and places where they have a free commerce; indeed, at the ports where
the English ships come, there is such great and constant demands for the
growth of all other countries, that there is a certain vent for the returns, as

well as a. market abroad for the goods carried out.
430
I got so much money by my first adventure,.snd such an insight into
the method of getting more, that had I been twenty years younger, I should
have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for making
any fortune; but what was all this to a man upwards of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless dsdre of
seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it? A restless
desire it really was, for when I was at home, I was restless to go abroad;
and when I was abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say, whstwas
this gain to me? I was rich enough already, nor had I any uneasy dedres
about getting more money; therefore the profit of the voyage to me was
of no great force for the prompting me forward to further undertakings.
Hence, I thought that by this voyage I had made no progress at all, because
Iwas come back, as I might call it,to the placeflomwhencelceme,"
to a home: whereas, my eye, like that which Solemn speaks of, was never
satisfied with seeing. I was come into a part of the world which I was
never in before, and that part, in particular, which I had heard much of,
and was resolved to see as much of it as I could: and thenIthoughtI
might say I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.

But my fe'llowtraveller and I had difi'erent notions: I acknowledge
his were the more suited to the end of a merchant's life: who, when he is
abroad upon adventures, is wise to stick to that, as the best thing for him,
which he is likely to get the most money by. On the other hand, mine
was the notion of a mad, rambling boy, that never cares to see a thing
twice over: But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to
be nearer home, and yet an unsettled resolution which way to go. In the
interval of these consultations, my friend, who was always upon the search
for business, proposed another voyage among the Spice Islands, to bring
home a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difiiculty

was in bringing me to come into it. However, at last, nothing else oifering,
and as sitting still, to me especially, was the unhappiest part of life, I
resolved on this voyage too, which we made very successfully, touching at
Borneo, and several other islands, and came home in about five months,
when we sold our spices, with very great profit, to the Persian merchants,
who carried them away to the gulf. My friend, when we made up this
account, smiled at me: "Well, now,"-said he, with a sort of friendly
rebuke on my indolent temper, " is not this better than walking about here,

like a man with nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at tho '

431
nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans?"--" Why, truly," said 'I, " my
friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert to the principles of
merchandising; but I must tell you, by the way, you do not know what I
am doing; for if I once conquer my 'backwardness, and embark heartily,
old as I_ am, I shall harass you up and down the world till I tire you;
for I shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lie still."

A little while after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she
was a coaster, not an European trader, of about two hundred tons burden;
the men, as they pretended, having been so sickly that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, so he lay by at Bengal; and having, it
seems, got money enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go for
Europe, he gave public notice he would sell his ship. This came to my
ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it;
so I went to him and told him of 'it. He considered awhile, for he was
no rash man neither; and at last replied, " She is a little too big--however,
we will have her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, and agreeing with
the master, we paid for her, and took possession. When we had done so
we resolved to engage the men, if we could, to join with those we had, for
the pursuing our business; but, on a sudden, they having received not
their wages, but their share of the money, as we afterwards learned, not
one of them was to be found; we inquired much about them, and at length
were told that they were all gone together by land to Agra, the great city
of the Mogul's residence, to proceed from thence to Surat, and then go by
sea, to the Gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while, as that I should miss
the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, I thought, and in
such company as would both have guarded and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design; and I should have both seen the
world, and gone homeward too. But I was much better satisfied a few
days after, when I came to know what sort of fellows they were; for, in
short, their history was, that this man they called captain was the gunner
only, not the commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in Which
they had been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed
the captain and three of his men; and that,after the captainwasldlled,
these men, eleven in number, having resolved to run awaylwith the ship,
brought her to Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by her,

as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into things so
482
exactly as we ought; for we never. inquired anything of the seamen,
who would certainly have faltered in their account, and contradicted one
another. Somehow or other we should have had reason to have suspected ,
them; but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one Emanuel
Closfershoven, or some such name, far I suppose it was all a forgery, and
called himself by that name, and we could not contradict him: and withal,
having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our bargain.
We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some Dutch;
and now we resolved on a second voyage to the south-east for cloves, &e.;
that is to say, among the Philippine and Malacca isles. In short, not to
fillup this part ofmystorywithtrifles, whenwhatistocomeisso
remarkable, I spent, from first to last, six years in this country, trading
from port to port, backward and forward, and with very good success, and
was now the last year with my um partner, going in the ship above
mentioned, on a'voyage to China, but designing first to go to Siam, to
buy rice.

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down a
great while in the Straits of Malacca, and among the islands, we were no
sooner got clear of those difficult seas, than we found our ship he'd sprung a
leak, but could not discover where it was. This forced us to make some
port; and my partner,'who knew the countrybetter than I did, directed the
captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had made the English mate,
one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship
upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf
which goes up to Siam. While we were here, and going often on shore for
refreshmenttherecomestome one dayanEnglishmau,agunner'smateon
board an English EastIndia ship, then riding in the same river. " Sir," says
he, addressingme,"you are a stranger tome, andIto. you; butIhavesome-
thingtotellyouthatverynearlyoonoerns you. I am moved by the imminent '
dangeryouarein, and, for aughtI see, you havenoknowledge of it"---- "I
knownodangerIamin," saidI, "hutthatmyshipis leaky, andIcannot
find it out; but I intend tolayher agroundtoemorrow, to seeif I canfind
it."-- "But, sir,"sayshe," leakyornotleaky, youwill bewisertbantolay
your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have to say to you.
Do you know, sir," said he, "the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues
up the river; and there are two large English ships about five leagues on
this side, and three Dutchi"--~"Well," said I, "and whatis that to me?"--_--
'Why, sir," said he, "isitfor aman that is upon such adventures as you

as r r
are, to come into a port, and not examine first what ships there are there,
and whether he is able to deal with them i I suppose you do not think you
are a match for them? " I could not conceive what he meant; and I turned
short upon him, and said: "I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot
immine what reason I have to be afraid of any of the Company's ships, or
Dutch ships. I am no interloper. What can they have to say to me?"
" Well, sir," says he, with a smile, " if you think yourself secure, you must
take your chance ; but, take my advice, if you do not put to sea immediately,
you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full of men, and
perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars
he examined afterwards. I thought, sir," added he, " I should have met
with a better reception than this, for doing you a piece of service of such
importance"--" I can never be ungrateful," said I, "for any service, or to
any man that offers me any kindness ;'but it is past my comprehension what
they should have such a design upon me for: however, since you'say there
is no time to be lost, and that there is some villanous design on hand against
me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men
can stop the leak; but, sir," said I, " shall I go away ignorant of the cause of
all this? Can you give me no further light into it?"

" I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he; " but I have a Dutch
seaman here with me, and I believe I could persuade him to tell you the
rest; but there is scarce time for it. But the short of the story is this--
the first part of which I suppose you know well enough--that you were
with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the
Malays, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that were on
board with you, ran away with the ship, and are since tinned Pirates. This
is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure
you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you know merchant ships
show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their power."--"Now
you speak plain English," said I, " and I thank you; and though I know
nothing that we have done like what you talk of, for I am sure we came
honestly and fairly by the ship; yet seeing such a work is doing, as you
say, and that you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my guard."--" Nay,
sir," says he, " do not talk of being upon your guard ; the hat defence is to be
out of danger. If you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without fail at high water; and as you have a. whole
tide before you, you will be gone too far out before they can come down;

for they will come away at high water, and as they have twenty miles to
48'CRUSOK l3 WARNS!) OF HIS DANG!"

come, you will get near two hours of them by the difference of the tide, not
reckoning the length of the way: besides, as they are only boats, and not
ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if it
blows."--"Well," said I, "you have been very kind in this : what shall I do
to make you amends ? "--" Sir," says he, " you may not be willing to make
me any amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it. I will

- make an offer to you: I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board the
ship --, which I came out of England in 3 and the Dutchmen, that is with
me has seven months' pay due to him. If you will make good our pay to
us, we will go along with you; if you find nothing more in it, we will desire
no more; but if we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and the
ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."

i I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the two

men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my partner, who was
435
on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called to me, with a great deal
of joy, " We have stopped the leak--we have stopped the leak I "--" Say you
so," said I ; " thank God ! but weigh anchor, then, immediately.'--" Weigh 1"
says he; " what do you mean by that? What is the matter? "--"Ask no
questions," said I ; " but set all hands to work, and weigh without losing a
minu " He was surprised; however, he celled the captain, and he
immediately ordered the anchor to be got up; and though the tide was not
quite down, yet a little land-breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I
called him into the cabin, and told him the story; and we called in the men,
and they told us the rest of it; but as it took up a great deal of time, before
we had done, a seamen comes to the cabin door, and called out to us that
the captain bade him tell us we were chased by five sloops, or boats, full of
men."----" Very well," said I, "then it is apparent there is something in it"
I then ordered all our men to be called up, and told them there was a design
to seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if they would
stand by us, and by one another; the men answered cheerfully, one and'all.
that they would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way
he thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for resist them I was
resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily, that the way
was to keep them ofi' with our great shot as long as we could, and then ta
use our small arms, to keep them from boarding us: but when neither of
these would do any longer, we would retire to our close quarters, for perhaps
they had not materials to break open our bulkheads, or get in upon us.

The gunner had, in the mean time, orders to bring two guns to bear fore
and aft, out of the steer-age, to clear the deck, and load them with musket-
bullets and small pieces of old iron, and what came next to hand. Thus
we made ready for fight; but all this while we kept out to sea, with wind
enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being five large long-boats,
following us with all the sail they could make.

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were English)
ontsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them, and gained upon
us considerably, so that we found they would come up with us; upon which
we fired a gun without bail, to intimate that they should bring to: and we
put out a flag of truce, as a signal for par-lay: but they came crowding after
us, till within shot, when we took in our white flag, they haging made no
answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with a shot. Not
withstanding this, they came on till they were near enough to call to them
with a speaking-humpet, bidding them keep ofi' at their peril.

*4"("WIN

Itwesallone; theymwdedafiwmmd endeavoured to come under
our stemsoastoboard us enourquarter; uponwhich,seeingtheywere
resolute for mischief, and depended upon the strength that followed them, I
ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside; when '
immediatelywefired five gumatthemoneof which hadlbeenlevelledso
true as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and we then forced
themtotakedowntheirsail,andtorunalltotheheedoftheboattokeep
herfromsinln'ng; so sheluyby,andhadenoughof it; hutseeingtheforemost .
host crowd on after us,we made readytofireatherinparticular. While
this was doing, one of the three boats that followed made up to the boat
which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her take out the
men. We then called again to the foremosthoat, and ofl'emd since, to
parley again, and to know what her business was with us; but had no
answer, only she crowded close under our stern. Upon this, our gunner,
who was a very dexterous fellow, ran out his tivo case-guns, and fired again
at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps,
and came on. The gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among them
a second time, one shot of which, though it missed the boat, itself, yet fell
in among the men, and we could easily see did a great deal of mischief
among them We now wore the ship again, and brought our quarter to
bear upon them, and firing three guns more, we found the boat was almost
split to pieces ; in particular, her rudder and a piece .of her stern. were shot
quite away ; so they handed her sail immediately, and were in great disorder.
To complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again;
where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking
and some of the men already in the water:_ upon this, I immediately
manned out our pinnace, with orders to pick up some of the men, ifvthey
could, and save them from drowning. and immediately come on board ship
with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come up. Our
men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up three men, one of
whom was just drowning, and it was a good while before we could recover .
him. As soonestheywereonhoard,we crowdedallthesailwecould,
make, and stood farther out to the sea; and we found that when the other
boats came up to the first, they gave over their chase.

Beingthnsdeliveredfiomadanger,which,though1knewnotthereaeon '
of it. yet seemed to be muchgreater than I apprehendedlresolved that we; .
should change our course, and not let any one know whither we were going: -

sowestoodonttoeeaeae'ward, quiteoutof thecourseofallEuropean,
487 '
ships, whether they were bound to China or anywhere else, within the
commerce of the European nations. When we were at see, we began to
consult with the two seamen, and inquire what the meaning of all this
should be; and the Dutchman confirmed the gunner's story, about the false
sale of the ship and of the murder of the captain, and also how that he,
this Dutchman, 'and four more, get into the woods, where they wandered
about a great while, till at length he made his escape, and swam of to a
Dutch ship, which was sailing near the shore in its way from China.

He then told us that he went to Batsvia, where two of the seamen
belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in their travels, and
gave an account that the fellow who had run away with the ship sold her
at Bengal to a set of pirates, who were gone a-cruizing in her, and that they
had already taken an English ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden
This latter part we found to concern us directly, though we knew it to be
false; yet, as my partner said, very justly, if we had fallen into their hands,
and they had had such a prepossession gainst us beforehand, it had been
in vain for us to have defended ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter
at their hands ; especially considering that our accusers had been our judges,
and that we could have expected nothing from them but what rage would
have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have executed. Therefore it was
his opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we came,
without putting in at any port whatever,--because there we could give a
good account of ourselves, could prove where we were when the ship put in,
of whom we bought her, and the like; and, what was more than all the
rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it before the proper
judges, we should be sure to have some justice, and not to be hanged first,
and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more serious
thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for us to attempt
returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong side of the Straits of
Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid
on every side :--that if we should be taken, as it were running away, we
should even condom ourselves, and there would want no more evidence to
destroy us. I also asked the English sailor's opinion, who said he was of my
mind, and that we should certainly be taken. This danger a little startled
my partner, and all the ship's company, and we immediately resolved to go
away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast" of China--and,

pursuing the first design as to trade, find some way- or other to dispose of
asconsumes censor. _

theship,andccmebcckin some oftheveasels ofthe~country,snchaswe
couldget. Thiswasspprcvedof asthehestmethodfor-oursecurity; and
accordingly we steered away ENE. keeping above fiftyleagues of from the
usual course to the eastward This, however, put nato some inconvenience :
for, first,the winds, when we came that distance from the shore, seemed to
be more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it. from the E.
and ENZE. so that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were but
illprovided with victualsforsolongernn; and,whatwasstill'worse, there '
was some danger that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued
us, whereof some were bound that way, might have got in before us, and if
not, some other ship bound to China might have information of us from
them, and pursue us with the same vigour. .

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, including
the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most dangerous
condition that ever I was in through my past life; for whatever ill circum-
stanceeIhadbeen in,I was never pursued for a thief before; norhad I
ever done anything that merited the nameof dishonest or fraudulent, much
less thievish. I had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly say,
I had been nobody'a enemy but my own; but now I was wofully embar-
ramd; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no condition to make
that innocence appear; and if I had been taken, ithadheenundera
supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made me very anxious to make an
escape, though which way to do it I knew not, or what port or place we
could go to. My partner endeavoured to encourage me by describing the
several ports of that coast, and told me he would put in on the coast of
Cochin China, or the Bay of Tonquin, intending afterwards to go to Macao,
where a great many European families resided--and particularly the mis-
sionary priests, who usually went thither in order to their going forward
to China. .

Hither then we resolved to go; and, accordingly, though afier a tedious
course, and very much straitened for provisions, we came within sight of the

 

coastveryearlyin the morning; and upon reflection onthepast circum- "

stances of danger we were in, we resolved to put into a small river, which,
however, had depth enough of water for us, and to see if we could, either-
overland or by the ship's pinnaca. come to know what ships were in any_
port thereabouts; This happy step was, mm our deliverance -: for though _
wedidnotimmediatelyseeany EuropeanshipsintheBayof Tonquin,"
the next morning there came into the bay,two Dutchships; andathirdv
m .'
without any colours spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman,
passed by at about two leagued distance, steering for the coast of China;
and in the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one way and
the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous--the people
thieves by occupation; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of
them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not how little we had to
do with them, yet it was with much dificulty that we kept ourselves from
being insulted by them several ways We were in a small river of this
country, within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted norm-east, to the point of land which opens the great hay
, of Tonquin; and it was in this heating up along the shore thatwedis-
covered we were surrounded with enemies. The people we were among
were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the coast; and among
other customs, they have this one: that if any vessel has the misfortune to
be shipwrecked upon their coast, they make the men all prisoners or slaves;
and it was not long before we found a spice of their kindness this way, on
the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that we
could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said, it was stopped
unexpectedly, on the eve of our being pursued by the Dutch and English
ships in the Bay of Siam; yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly
tight and sound as we desired, we resolved while we were at this place to
lay her on shore, and clean her bottom, and, if possible, to find out when
the leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all
our guns and other movables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that
.we might come at her bottom ; ,but, on second thoughts, we did not care to
lay her; on dry ground, neither could we lind out a proper place for it.

The inhabitants came wondering down the shore to look at us;'and
seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and healing in
towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her
bottom with stages, and with their boats on the off-side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay fast on the ground ' On
this supposition, they came about-us in two or three hours' time with ten
or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some ten men in a boat,
intending, no doubt, to have come on board and plundered the' ship, and if
they found us there, to have carried us away for slaves.

When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they

no
1

discoveredusallhardatwork onthsoutside of the ships bottomandside,
washingmdgmvingmdswppingaseveryseafaringmanknowshow.
Theystoodfor awhile gazingat us, audwe,whowere a little surprised,
could notimaginewhat their designwas; but beingwiflingtohesurewe
tookthis opportunityto get someof us intothe ship,andothersto hand '
downarms and ammunition to those thatwere atwork,to defend them- .
selves with, if there should be occasion. And it was no more than need':
for inless than a quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems,
that the ship was really a wreck, and that we were all atka endeavouring
tosave her, or to save our lives bytho help of our boats; andwhenwe
handed our arms into the boat, they concluded, by that act, that we were
endeavouring to save some of our goods; upon this, they took it for
granted we all belonged to them, and away they came directly upon our
men, as if it had been in a line-of-battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we lay
but in an ill posture to fight, andcried out to us to know what they should
do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon the stages, to slip
them down, and get up the side into the ship, and bade those in' the boat
to row round and come on board. The few who were on board worked
with all the strength and hands we had to bring the ship to rights; how-
ever, neither the men upon the stages nor those in .the boats could do as
they were ordered, before the Cochin Chinese were upon'them, when two
of their boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as
their prisoners.

Thefirstmantheylaidhold ofwas an English seamen, astout,strong
fellow, who having a musket in his hand, never ofi'md to fire it, but laid-
it down in the boat, like a fool, as I.thought; but he understood his
business betterthau Icofldtemhhimforhe grappledthe Pagan,and
draggedhimbymain force out oftheir boat intoours,where, tekinghim
bythe ears, hebeat his head so against the boat'sgunneLthatthefellovr
diedinhishands. In the mean times Dutchmanwho stoodneit, took;
up the musket, andwith the butt-end of it so laid ahouthim,thathe
knocked down five, of them who attempted to enter the boat. IButmthis
was doinglittletowards resisting thirtyorfortymemwho, fearlessbecause-
ignorant- of their danger, began to throw' theniselves- into the long-bean"
wherewehadbutfivemeninall to defendit; but thefollowingaccidente'
whichdeservedourlaughtengaveourmeuaoompleteviotory. ' I :

 

   

Ourcarpenterbeingpmparedtogravetheoulsideoftheship,aswen:
. m .
as to pay the seams where he had caulked her to stop the leaks, had go:
two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and
the other with resin, tallow, and oil, and such etufl' as the shipwrights use
for that work; and the man that attended the carpenter had a great iron
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that were at work with
the hot stufi'. Two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this
fellow stood in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with a ladle-
full of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being half-
naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped
both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, " Well done, Jack .
give them some more of it:" and stepping forward himself, takes one of
the mops, and dipping it in the pitch--pot, he and his man threw it among
them so plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats, there
was not one that escaped being scolded in a most frightful manner, and
made such a howling and crying, that I never heard a worse noise.

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as it was
a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent before, but as
we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of that man the seamen
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much concerned at.
Although it may be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature), yet I thought it was a sad sort of life,
when we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-creatures to
preserve ourselves--and, indeed, I think so still; and I would even now
sufi'er a great deal, rather than I would take away the life even of the worst
person injuring me; and I believe all considering people, who know the
value of life, would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously into the
consideration of it.

All the while this was doing. my parhrer and I, who managed the rest
of the men on board, had with great dexterity brought the ship almost to
rights, and having got the guns into their places again, the gunner called
to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly among them.
I calledbackagainto him, andbidhimnot ofi'er to firefor the carpenter
would do the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-kettle,
which our cook, who was on board, took care of. However, the enemy was
so terrified with what they had met with in their first attack, that they
would not come on again; and some of them who were farthest ofi', seeing
the ship swim, as it were, upright, began, as we suppose, to see their
mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected.

"8
   

Thus wegotclearofthis merry fight; and having got some ice, and some; '
roots and bread, with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we _
resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for
we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the next day with rogues ,
enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. We
therefore gotallourthings onboardthesame evening,andthenext
morning were ready to sail: in the mean time, lying at anchor at some
distance from the shore, we were not so much concerned, being new in a'
fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posturaifanyenemyhadpre--
sented. The next day, having finished our work'within board, and finding
our ship was perfectly heeled of all her leaks, we setsail. We would have
gone into the Bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what
wastobe known 00nt the Dutch ships that had been there; butwe
durst not stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we
supposed, but a little before; so we kept on N13. towards the island of
Formosa, asmuch afraid of being seen by. a Dutch or Englishmerchant.
ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an
Algerine man-of-war. '

Whenwewere thus got to sea, wekept on NE, as if we wouldgo-to
the Manillss or'the Philippine Islands; and this we did that we might not
fall into the way of any of the European ships; and then we swered north,
tillwe came to the latitude of 22deg 30' by which means we made the island
of Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor,' m order to get water and
fresh provisions, which the people there, who are very courteous in their
manners, supplied uswith willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually
withusinalltheiragreements and bargains. Thisiswhatwedidnotfind
among other people, and may be owing-to the remains of Christianity which I
was once plaan here by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testi-
mony of what I have ofien observed, viz. that the Christian religion always
civilizes the people, and reforms their manners, where it is received,
whether it works saving effects upon them or no.

methmcewesafledsfiflnorthkeepingthecoastofChinaatan
equal distancatillwe knewwewere' beyond all the ports of Chinawhere
our European ships usually come; being resolved, ifpossihle, not to-fall
intoanyoftheir hands, especiallyintbiaoountry, where, uouW-~
stanceswereweeouldnot failof being entirelyruined. Beingnowcome' -'
tothelatitudsof 30degrees,weresdlved-toput into thefirstt'radingport
we should come at; and standing in for the share, a boateun'a- afitwo

m .
leagues to us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing us to be
an European ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed, we were glad of
and took him on board; upon which, without asking us whither we would,
go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back. I. thought it was
now so much in our choice to make the old man carry us whither we would,
that I began to talk to him about carrying us to the Gulf of Nankin, which
is the most northern part of the coast of China. The old man said he knew
the Gulf of Nankin very well; but smiling, asked us what we would do
there? I told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c.; and so would return by the
same course we came He told us our best port would have been to put in
at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market for our opium to our
satisfaction, and might for our money have purchased all sorts of China
goods as cheap as we could at Nankin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was very
opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as well as mer-
chants, and that we had a. mind to go and see the great city of Pekin, and
the famous court of the monarch of China. " Why, then," says the old
man, " you should go to Ningpo, where, by the river which runs into the
sea there, you may go up within five leagues of the great canal. This canal
is a navigable stream, which goes through the heart of that vast empire of
China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of
sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near two
hundred and seventy leagues." "Well," said I, " Seignior Portuguese, but
that is not our business now ; the great question is, if you can carry us up
to the city of Nankin, from whence we can travel to Peldn afterwards?"
He said he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch ship
gone up that way just before. This gave me a little shock, for a Dutch
ship was now our terror, and we had much rather have met the devil, at
least if he had not come in too frightful a figure; and we depended upon it
that a Dutch ship would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to
fight them; all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great
burden, and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern when
he named a Dutch ship, and said to me, " Sir, you need be under no appre-
hensions of the Dutch; I suppose they are not now at war with your
nation?" " No," said I, " that's true; but I know not what liberties men

may take when they are out of the reach of the laws of their own country."
"4"C802 nncllARRs flue cannula or ms smr.

" Why," says he, " you are no pirates ; what need you fear? They will not
meddle with peaceable merchants, sure." These words put me into the
greatest; disorder and confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to
conceal it so, but the old man easily perceived it.

" Sir," says he, " I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts at my
talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and depend upon it,
I'll do you all the service I can." Upon this we fell into further discourse,
in which, to my alarm and amazement, he spoke of the villanous doings of a
certain pirate ship that had long been the talk of mariners in those seas ;

no other, in a word, than the very ship he was now on board of, and which
445
we had so unluckily purchased. I presently saw there was no help for it
but to tell him the plain truth, and explain all the danger and trouble we
had sufl'ered through this misadventure, and, in particular, our earnest wish
to be speedily quit 5of the ship altogether: for which reason we had resolved
to carry her up to N ankin.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were in the
right to go away to the north; and that, if he might advise us, it should be
to sell the ship in China, which we might well do, and buy or build
another in the country; adding, that I should meet with customers enough
for the ship at Naukin, that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to
go back gain; and that he would procure me people both to buy one and
sell the other. "Well, but, seignior," said I, "as you say they know the
ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to
bring some honest, innocent men into a terrible broil; for wherever they
find the ship they will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this was
the ship."---" Why," says the old man, " I'll find out a way to prevent that;
for as I know all those commanders you speak of very well, and shall see
them all as they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first might run away with the ship, yet it
was not true that they had turned pirates; and that, in particular, these
were not the men that first went off. with the ship, but innocently bought
her for their trade; and I am persuaded they will so far believe me, as at
least to act more cautiously for' the time to come." '

In about thirteen days' sail we came to an anchor, at the south-west
point of the great Gulf of Nankin; where I learned by accident thattwo
Dutch ships were gone the length before me, and that I should certainly
fall into their hands. I consulted my partner again in this exigency, and

, he was as much at a loss as I was. I then asked the old pilot if there was
no creek or harbour which I might put into and pursue my business with
the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told me if I
would sail to the southward about forty-two leagues, there was a little
port called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually landed
from Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese,
and where no European ships ever put' in; and if I thought to put in there,
I might consider what further course to take when I was on shore. He
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at some

certain times they had a kind ofa fair there, when the merchants from
"a
Japan came over thither to buy Chinese merchandises. The name'of the

port I may perhaps'spellwmng, havinglost this, togetherwith the names-

of many other places set down in a little pocketboohwhichwas spoiled,
by the water by an accident; but this I remember, that the Chinese
merchants we corresponded with called it by a difisrent name from. that

which our Portuguese pilot gave it, who pronounced it Quinchang. As we

were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed the next

day, having only gone twice on shore where we were, to get fresh water; on

both which occasions the people of the country were very civil, and brought

abundance of provisions to sell to us: but nothing without money.

We did not come to the other port (the wind being contrary) for five
days; but it was very much to our satisfaction, and I was thankful, when I
set my foot on shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible
to dispose of ourselves and efi'eots any other way, though not profitably, we
would never more set foot on board that unhappy vessel. Indeed, I must
acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life that ever I had any
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely miserable as that of
being in constant fear. Well does the Scripture say, "The fear of man
bringsasnare:" itisalife of death, andthe mind issoentirelyoppressed
', by it, that it is capable .of no relieil
- Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by heightening

every danger; representing the English and Dutch captains to be men
incapable of hearing reason, or of distmguishing. between honest men and
'rogues: or betweenastory calculatedfor ourown tummadsoutof
nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole
voyage, progress, and design; for we might many ways have convinced any
reasonable creatures that we were not pirates; the goods'we bad on board.
the course we steered, our frankly showing ourselves,and entering into such ,
andsuchports; and even ourverymanner,the force we had, the number
ofmen, thefewarmathelittlsammunition, shortprovisions; all-thus_
would haveservedto convinceauymeu that wewsre no pirates. The
opium and other goods we had on boudwould make-it appear theship had, '
beenatBengal. TheDutchmemwho,itwassaid,'hadthenamesofaJ1the , _
men that were in theship, mightsasilysesthatwe were a mixture of

 

English,Portuguese,andIndians,andbuttwoDutcbmsn9nboatd. Thus, - '

and many otherparticular circumstances, might havernadsitevidsntto'.
the understanding of any commander, whose hands we might fall into, thy,
wew'ereno pirates. .

447
But fear, that blind useless passion, worked another way, and threw us
into the vapours ; it bewildered our understandings, and set the imagination
at work to form a thousand terrible things that perhaps might never happen.
We first supposed, as indeed everybody had related to us, that the seamen
on board the English and Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so
enraged at the name of a pirate, and especially at our beating 05 their boats
and escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to inquire whether
we were pirates or no, but would execute us off hand, without giving us
any room for a defence. We reflected that there really was so much
apparent evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire after any
more; as, first, that the ship was certainly the same, and that some of the
seamen among them knew her, and had been on board her; and, secondly,
that when we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia that they were
coming down to examine us, we fought their boats and fled. Therefore we
made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied of our being pirates, as we
were satisfied of the contrary; and, as I often said, I know not but I should
have been apt to have taken those circumstances for evidence, if the tables
were turned, and my case was theirs; and have made no scruple of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing, or perhaps considering what they
might have to ofi'er in their defence.

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions ; and both my
partner and I scarce slept a night without dreaming of heifers and yard-
arms; of fighting, and being taken; of killing, and being killed: and one
night I was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutchmen had
boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen down, that I struck
my double fist against the side of the cabin I lay in with such a force as
wounded my hand grievously, broke my knuckles, and out and bruised the
flesh, so that it awaked me out of my sleep. Another apprehension I had
was, the cruel usage we might meet with from them if we fell into their
hands: then the story of Amboyna came into my head, and how the Dutch
might perhaps torture us, as they did our countrymen there, and make some
of our men, by extremity of torture, confess to crimes they never were
guilty of, or own themselves and all of us to be pirates, and so they would
put us to death with a formal appearance of justice; and that they might .
be tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, worth altogether
four or five thousand pounds. We did not considerthat'the captains of
ships have no authority to act thus; and if we had surrendered prisoners

to them, they could not answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but would
44s03080! DETERMINE TO SELL 313 um DIAR-

be accountable for it when they came to their country. However, if they
were to not thus with us, what advantage would it be to us that they should
be called to an account for it 2--or if we were first to be murdered, what
Isatisfaction would it be to us to have them punished when they came home?

I cannot refmin taking notice here what reflections I now had upon the

vast variety of my particular circumstances; how hard I thought it that I,
449 G G
who had spent forty years in a life of continual difficulties, and was at last
come, as it were, to the port or haven which all men drive at, viz. to have
rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own unhappy
choice; and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in my youth, should
now come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime
which I was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of. After these
thoughts, something of religion would come in; and I would be considering
that this seemed to me to be a disposition of immediate Providence, and I
ought to look upon it and submit to it as such. For, although I was inno--
cent as to men, I was far from being innocent as to my Maker; and I ought
to look in and examine what other crimes in my life were most obvious to
me, and for which Providence might justly inflict this punishment as a
retribution; and thus I ought to submit to this, just asI would to a ship-
wreck, if it had pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me.

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place, and then I
would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions; that I would not be
taken to be barbaronsly used by a parcel of merciless wretches in cold
blood; that it were much better to have fallen into the hands of the savages,
though I was sure they would feast upon me when they had taken me, than
those who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and
barbarities; that in the case of the savages, I always resolved to die fighting
to the last gasp, and why should I not do so now? Whenever these thoughts
prevailed, I was sure to put myself into a kind of fever with the agitation
of a. supposed fight; my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as if I was
engaged, and I always resolved to take no quarter at their hands; but, even,
at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up the ship and all that
was in her, and leave them but little booty to boast of. '

The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these things were
to our thoughts while we were at sea, the greater was our satisfaction when
we saw ourselves on shore; and my partner told me he dreamed that he
had a very heavy load upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and
found that he was not able to stand longer under it; but that the Portuguese
pilot came and took it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the ground
before him appearing all smooth and plain: and truly it was so; they were
all like men who had a load taken off their backs. For my part, I had a
weight taken off from my heart that it was not able any longer to bear;
and as I said above, we resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. When

we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a lodging.
45oFATHER 8230!! mm 030502 N GO TO PEEK.

together with a. warehouse for our goods; it was a little hut, with a larger
house adjoining to it, built and also palisadoed round with canes, to keep
out pilferers, of which there were not a few in that country: however, the
magistrates allowed us a little guard, and we had a soldier with a kind of
half-pike, who stood sentinel at our door; to whom we allowed a. pint of
rice, and a piece of money, about the value of three-pence, per day, so that
our goods were kept very safe.

The fair, or mart, usually kept at this place, had been over some time:
however, we found that there were three or four junks in the river, and two
ships from Japan, with goods which they had bought in China, and were
not gone away. having some Japanese merchants on shore.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
neqmintorl wizii three missionary Romish priests who were in the town

451
and who had been there some time converting the people to Christianity;
but we thought they made but poor work of it, and made them but sorry
Christians when they had done. One of these 'was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese; and~the third a
Genoese. Father Simon was courteous, and very agreeable company; but
the other two were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the wdrk they came about, viz. to talk with, and insinuate them-
selves among the inhabitants,' wherever they had opportunity. We often
ate and drank with those men; and though, I must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity, is so far from the true con-
version required to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it seems
to amount to little more than letting them know the name of Christ, and
say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they
understood not, and to cross themselves, and the like; yet it must be con-
fessed that the religionists, whom we call missionaries, have a firm belief
that these people will be saved, and that they are the instruments of it;
and on this account they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and
the hazards of living in such places, but oitentimes death itself, and the
most violent tortures, for the sake of this work.

Father Simon was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the
mission, to go up to Pekin, and waited only for another priest, who was
ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along with him. We scarce ever
met together but he was inviting me to go that journey; telling me how. he
would show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, Pekin, the greatest city in the world; " a city," said he, " that your
London and our Paris put together cannot be equal to." But as I looked
on those things with different eyes from other men, so I shall give my
opinion of them in a few words, when I come in the course of my travels
to speak more particularly of them.

Dining with Father Simon one day, and being very merry together, I
showed some little inclination to go with him; and he pressed me and my
partner very hard to consent " Why, father," says my partner, " should
you desire our company so much? you know we are heretics, and you do
not love us, nor cannot keep us company with any pleasure."---" 0h," says
he, "you may perhaps be good Catholics in time; my business here is to
convert heathens, and who knows but I may convert you too?"--" Very
well, father," said I, " so you will preach to us all the way? "--" I will not
be troublesome to you," says he; " our religion does not divest us of good

462
manners ; besides, we are here like countrymen; andso we are, comparedto
the placewe amin;andifyou areHuguenots, andIa Catholic, wemayall
beChristians atlast; atleast,we are all gentlemen, andwe mayconvme
so, without being uneasyto one another." I liked this part of his-discourse
verywell, and it began to put me inmindofmypriestthat I hadleflzin
the Brazils; but Father Simon-did not come up to his character by a great
deal; for though this friarhad no appearance of acriminallevityinhim,
yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere ail'ecfion
to religion, that my other good ecclesiastio had.

But to leave him a. little, though he never lefi: us, nor soliciting us to go
with him; we had something else before us at first,forwe hadall thiswhile
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be very doubt-
ful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very little business.
Once I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, and the city of
N ankin; but Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought, than ever
to concern itself in our affairs; and I was encouraged, from this very time,
to think I should, one way or other, get out of this entangled circumstance,
and be brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner. Providence, I- say, began here to clear up our way a little;
and the first thing that .ofl'ered was, that our old Portuguese pilot brought
a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what goods we had; and, in the first
place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for itvpaying
us in gold by weight, some in small pieces of their own coin, and some in
small wedges, of about ten or twelve ounces each. While we were dealing
with him for our opium, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal
for the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He
shrunk up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him; but in a
few days after he came to me, with one of the missionary priests for his
interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to me, which was this:
he had bought a great quantity of our goods, when he had no thoughts of
proposals made to him of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he had not
money to pay for the ship: but if I would let the same men who were in
the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; and would
send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went from Japan: and that
attheirreturnhewould buytheebip. I began to listen to his proposal, '
and so eager did myheed still run'upon rambling, that I.cou_ld not but
being to entertainanotion ofgoing myselfwith him, andso to setsailfmm '

458 -
the Philippine Islands away to the South Seas; accordingly, I asked the
Japanese merchant if he would not hire us to the Philippine Islands and
discharge us there. He said no, he could not do that, for then he could not
have the return of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan,-at the
ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and going
myself; but my partner, wiser than myself, persuadedme from it, repre-
senting the dangers, as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous people; likewise those of the Spaniards at the
Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than they.

But to bring this long turn oi our affairs to a conclusion; the first thing
we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship, and with his
men, and know if they werewilling to go to Japan. While I was doing
this, the young man whom my nephew had left with me as my companion
came up, and told me that he thought that voyage promised very fair, and
that there was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if
I undertook it; but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he would
go as a merchant, or as I pleased to order him; that if ever he came to
England, and I was there and alive, he would render me a faithful account
of his success, which should be as much mine as I pleased. I was loth to
part with him; but considering the prospect of advantage, which really was
considerable, and that he was a young fellow likely to do well in it, I
inclined to let him go; but I told him I would consult my partner, and give
him an answer the next day. I discoursed about it with my partner, who
thereupon made a most generous ofi'er: " You know it has been an unlucky
ship," said he, " and we both resolve not to go to sea in it again; if your
steward (so he called my man) will venture the voyage, I will leave my
share of the vessel to him, and let him make the best of it; and if we live
to meet in England, and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for
one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us ; the other shall be his own."

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man, made
him such an offer, I could not do less than offer him the same; and all the
ship's company being willing to go with him, we made over half the ship to
him in property, and took a writing from him, obliging him to account for
the other, and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very
punctual, honest man to him ; protected him at Japan, and got him a licence
to come on shore, which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained.
He paid him his freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines,

loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their own, who.
454
trafficking with the Spaniards, brought back European goods agaimanda
greatquantityofspms; sndtherehswasnotonlypaidhisfieightvsry
deandetaverygmdpiicabutnotbeingwillingtoselltheshipthen,
themerchantfurnishedhimgoodsonhisownaccount, andwitlisome
money,and some spices ofhis ownwhich hebronghtwith him,he went
backtotheMsnfllas,whe1ehesoldhiseargoverywell. Haahavingmade
agmdaoquhintmwatMmmmhegothisshipmadeafiushiEandthe

aromefllshimdhimbgotoAcapulmonthecoastofAmerina,
andgavehimalicenoetolandthere,endtotraveltoMexico,andtopmsin
anySpanishshiptoEmopewithallhismen. Hemadethsvoyagetn
Acapulco very happ1ly, and there he sold his ship; sndhaving there also
obtained allowance to travel'bylandtoPortoBello, hefoundmeanstoget
toJamaieawithallhistreasure; andabont eightyearsaftercamsto
Enghniexwedingrieh.

Buttoretmtoourpattionlnrafl'airs: beingnowtopartwiththeship
and ship's oompany,1t came before us, of course, to consider what recom-
pense we should give to the two men that gavens such timely notice ofthe
designagainstusintheriverCembodia. Thetmthwaatheyhaddoneus
every considerable service, and deserved wellatourhands; though,bythe
way, they wereaeouple of roguestoo; for,astheyhelievedthestoryofour
beingpiratesandthatwehadreallyrunawaywiththeship,theyoamedown
tous,notonlytobetraythedesignthatwasfomedagainstusbuttogoto
seawithusaspirates. Oneofthemeonfessedai'terwardsthatnothingalse
butthehopesofgoingarogningbroughthimtodoit:however,theserviee
theydiduswasnottheless,andthemforaaslhadpromisedtobegmteful

tothem,Ifirstorderedthemoneytobepaidthemwhichtheysaidwasdue'

tothemonboardtheirrespecfivelships: over and above that,I gaveeaeh
of them a small stun of money in gold, which contented them very well. I

thenmadetheEnglishmangunnerintheship,thegunnerbeingnowmade

secondmateandpurser; the DutchmanImadehoatswain; so theywere '

both very well pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen,
and very stout fellows.

Wewere nowonshoieinChina; ifIthoughtmysdfbanishedand.
remote from myown connhystBengaLwhereIhadmanywaystoget-_
home for my money, what could I think of myself now, when I was

shoutathousandleagnesfmtheroflfiomhomaanddestituieofallmanner

ofprospeotofieturnl Aflwehadforitwuthisthatinaboutfiru '_
months' timetheiewastobeanotherfeirattheplsoewherewewere, "__

455
and then'we might be able to purchase various manufactures of the
country, and withal might possibly find some Chinese junks from Tonquin
for sale, that would carry us and our goods whither we pleased. This
I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides, as our particular persons
were not obnoxious, so, if any English or Dutch ships came thither,
perhaps we might have an opportunity to load our goods, and get passage
to some other place in India nearer home. Upon these hopes, we resolved
to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three journeys
into the country.

First, we went ten days' journey to Naukin, a city well worth seeing;
they say it has a million of people in it: it is regularly built, and the
streets are all straight, and cross one another in direct-lines. But when
I come to compare the miserable people of these countries with ours,
their fabrics, their manner of living, their government, their religion, their
,wealth, and their glory, as some call it, I must confess that I scarcely think
it worth my while to mention them here. We wonder at the grandeur, the
riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the government, the manufactures, the
commerce, and conduct of these people; not that there is really any matter
lfor wonder, but because, having a. true notion of the barbarity of those
lcountries, the rudeness and the ignorance that prevail there, we do not
|expect to find any such thing so far off. Otherwise, what, are their
buildings to the palaces and royal buildings of Europe? What their trade
.to the universal commerce of England, Holland, France, and Spain?' What
flare their cities to ours, for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, '
:and infinite variety? What are their ports, supplied with a few junks and
barks, to our navigation, our merchant fleets, our large and powerful navies?
_Our city of London has more trade than half their mighty empire: one
.English, Dutch, or French man-of-war of eighty guns, would be able to
fight almost all the shipping belonging to China: but the greatness of
their wealth, their trade, the power. of their government, and the strength
of their armies, may be a little surprising to us, because, as I have said,
considering them as a barbarous nation of Pagans, little better than savages,
we did not expect such things among them. But all the forces of their
empire, though they were to bring two millions of men into the field
together, would be able to do nothing but ruin the countryfl and starve
themselves; a million of their foot could not stand before one enibattled
body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, though they were

not to be one to twenty in number; nay, I do not boast if I say that thirty
4560! 30813308 030308.

thousand German or English foot, and ten thousand horse, wellmanaged,
aoulddefeatalltheforcesothinaa NoristhereafortifiedtowninChina

 

 

thatcouldholdoutonemonthsgainstthebatteriesandattaek'sefm-'

European army. They have fire-srms,'it is true, but they are awkward
anduncertainintheir goingofi'; and theirpowder'has hutlittle strength.
Their armieeare bedlydiseipfinedandwaut skill to attack,orkmperto
retreat; andtherefore, Imust confess, it seemedstrangeto me,whenI
camehomaand heard our .peoplesaysuchfinethingsof thepower, glory, '
magnificence, andtradeofthe Chinese;because,asfaras1saw,they
appeared to be a contempfible hard or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves,
subjected to a government qualified oulyto rule suchapeople; and were
not itsdistance inconceivably great from Muscovy, and that empire in a
manner as rude, impotent, and ill governed as they, the Czar of Muscovy
might with ease drive them all out of their country, and conquerthern in
one campaign; anth the Czar(whoisnowa growingprinceflallenthis
way, instead of attacking the warlike Swedes and equally improved him-
self inthe artof war, astheysayhe has done; andif noneof thepowen
of Europe had envied or interrupted him, he might by this time have been
Emperor ofChina, instead of being beatenhythe KingofSwedenat
Narva, when the latter was not one to six in number.

As their strength and their grandeur, so their navigation, commerce, and
husbandry, are very imperfect, compued to the same things in Europe;
also, in their knowledge, their learning, and' in their skill in the sciences, '
they are' either very awkward or defective, though they have globes or
spheres, and a smattering of the mathematics, and think theyknow more '
than all the world besides. But they know little of. the motions of the
heavenly bodies; and so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their common ,
peoplethatwhen thesunis echpmdtheythinkagreatdrsgonhas>>
assaulted it, and is going to run away with it; and they fall a chattering
with all the drums and kettles in the country, to flight the monster sway,
justsawedotohiveaswamofhes!

Asthis is theonly excursion of the ldndwhichI havemadeinall the.
accounts I have given of my travels, so I shall make no more such. It' is
none of my business. nor any part of my design; but to. give an account?
of my own adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long'
variety of changes, which, perhaps, few that come afier me will have heard,
the likeof: Ishalltherefore say very little ofallthe mightyplam
desert countries, and numerous people, I have yet to pass through, more

. 457 .
than relates to my own story, and which my concern among them make
necessary.

I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line, for we were returned from Nankin. I
had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much
of, and Father Simon importuned me daily to do it. At length, his time
of going away being set, and the other missionary who was to go with
him being arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve
either to go, or not; so I referred it to my partner, and left it wholly
to his choice, who at length resolved it in the afiirmative, and we prepared
for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as to finding the
way; for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins,
a kind of viceroy or principal magistrate in the province where they reside,
and who take great state upon them, travelling with great attendance.
and great homage from the people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished
by them, being obliged to furnish provisions for them and all their atten-
dants in their journeys. I particularly observed in our travelling with his
baggage, that though we received sufiicient provisions both for ourselves
and our horses from the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we
were obliged to pay for everything we had, after the market price of the
country, and the mandarin's steward collected it duly from us. Thus our
travelling in the retinue of the mandarin, though it was a great act of
kindness, was not such a mighty favour to us, but was a great advantage
to him, considering there were above thirty other people travelled in the
same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinne; for the
wuntry furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet he took
our money for them. .

We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a country
exceeding populous, but I think badly cultivated; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though they boast so much of
the industry of the people: I say miserable, if compared with our own,
but not so to these poor wretches, who know no other. The pride of the
poor people' 1s infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their poverty,
in some parts, which adds to that which I call their misery, and I must
needs think the savages of America live much more happy than the
poorer sort of these, because as they have nothing, so they desire nothing;
whereas these are proud and insolent, and in the main are in many parts

mere beggars and drudges. Their osfgptation is inexpressible; and, if they
can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to the last
degree ridiculous, as well as their contempt of all the world but themselves.

I must confess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the deserts and
vast \vildernesses of Grand Tartary than here, and yet the roads here are
well paved and well kept, and very convenient for travellers; but nothing
was more awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent
people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; and my
friend Father Simon and I used to be very merry upon these occasions, to
see their beggarly pride. For example, coming by the house of a country
gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues ofi' the city of
Nankin, we had first of all the honour to ride with the master of the house

 

CBVSOH 8835 A CHINESE 03mm 01 "IE ROAD.

about two miles; the state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being
a mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was very proper for a merry-
andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and
slashes almost on every side: it covered a tafl'ety vest, so greasy as to
testify that his honour must be a most exquisite slovcn. His horse was a.
poor, starved, babbling creature, and two slaves followed him on foot to
drive the poor creature along; he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured
the beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail ; and thus
he rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the city to his
country seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on gently, but

this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as we stopped at a
459
village about an hour to refresh us, when we came by the country seat of
this great man, we saw him in a. little place before his door, eating a repeat.
It was a kind of gardem'but he was easy to be seen; and we were given
to understand that the more we looked at him the better he would be
pleased. He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto, which efl'ectually
shaded him over the head, and on the south side; but under the tree was
placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough. He sat
lolling hack in a. great elbow-chair, being a heavy corpulent man, and had
his meat brought him by two women slaves. He had two more, one of whom
fed the squire with a spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand,
and scraped off what she let fell upon his worship's heard and tafl'ety vest.

Leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our looking at him, as
if we admired his idle pomp, we pursued our journey. Father Simon had
the curiosity to stay to inform himself what dainties the country justice
had to feed on in all his state, which he had the honour to taste of, and
which was, I think, a. mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in it,
and a little bag filled with green pepper, and another plant which they have
there, something like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like
mustard; all this was put together, and a small piece of lean mutton boiled
in it, and this was his worship's repast. Four or five servants more
attended at a distance, who we supposed were to eat of the same after their
master. As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he'was respected as
a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended in all his
appearances with such pomp, that I saw little of him but at a distance I
observed, that there was not a horse in his retinue but that our carriers
packhorses in England seemed to me to look much better; though it was
hard to judge rightly, for they were so covered with equipage, mantles,
trappings, &c. that we could scarce see anything but their feet and their
heads as they went along. '

I was now lighthearted, and all my late trouble and perplexity being
over, I had no anxious thoughts about me, which made this journey the
pleasanter to me; in which no ill accident attended me, only in passing or
fording a small river, my horse fell, and made me free of the country, as
they call it,--that is to say, threw me in. The place was not deep, but it
wetted me all over. I mention it because it spoiled my pocket-book,
wherein I had set down the names of several people and places which I
had occasion to remember, and which not taking due care of, the leaves

rotted, and the words were never after to be read.
460
At length we arrived at I'ekiu I had nobody with me but the youth
whom my nephew had given me to attend me as a servant, and who
proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody with him but
one servant, who was a kiusman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being
desirous to see the court, we bore his charges for his company, and for our
use of him as an interpreter, for he understood the language of the country,
and spoke good French and a little English. Indeed, this old man was

 

THE CHINE! GENTLEIIAX DINES 13 run.

most useful to us everywhere; for we had not been above a week at Pekin,
when he came laughing. " All, Seignior Inglese," says he, " I have some-
thing to tell will make your heart glad."--" My heart glad," says I ; "what
can that be? I don't know anything in this country can either give me
joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes," said the old man in broken
English, "make you glad, me sorry."--"Why," said I, "will it make you
sorry?"----"Beeeuse," said he, " you have brought me here twenty--five days'
461
journey, and will leave me to go back alone ; and which way shall I get to
my port afterwards, without a ship, without ,a horse, without poem?"--
so he called money, being his broken Latin, 'of which 'he had abundance to
make us merry with In short, he told us there was a great caravan of
Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, preparing to set out on their
journey by land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks; and he'was sure '
we would take the opportunity to go with them, and leave him behind, to
go back alone

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had scarce
power to speak to him for some time, but at last I said to him, " How do
you know this? are you sure it is true?"--"Yes," says he; "I met this
morning in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is
among them. He came last from Astraeau, and was designing to go to
Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now
resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga to
Astragan."--"Wel], Seignior," says I, " do not be uneasy about being left
to go back alone; if this be a method for my return to England, it shall be
your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We then went to consult
together what was to he done; and I asked my partner what he thought of
the pilot's news, and whether it would suit with his afl'airs? He told me
he would do just as I would; for he had settled all his aifairs sowell at
Bengal, andlefthis efi'ectsinsuchgoodhands,thataswehadmadeagood
voyage, if he could invest it in China silks, wrought and raw, he would be
content to go to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal by the
Company's ships.

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese pilot
would go with us, we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to England, if
he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over generous in that
either, if we had not rewarded him further,lthe service he had done us
being really worth more than that; for he had not only been a pilot to us
at sea, but he had been like a broker for us on shore; and hisprocuring
for us the Japan merchant was some hundreds of pounds in our pockets.
So, beingwillingtogratifyhim, whichwasbut doinghimjustice, andvery
willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most necessary man
on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of coined gold, which, as
I computed it, was worth one hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling,
between us, and to bear all his charges, both for himself and horse, except
only a horse to carry his goods. Having settled this between ourselves, we

462
onlledhimtolethim know whntwehndresolved. I toldhimhehad ,_
complained ofonrbeingwilling to let him go beck'alone, sndessnow
aboutto.tell himwe designed he should not go back atoll. Thataswe
had resolved to goto Europewithlthe caravan,we were verywilling he
should gowith us; endthstwe celledhimtoknowhismind, He shook
his head and saidit was alongjourney, sndthst hehsd nopecmto carry
him thither, or to subsist himselfwhen he came there. We told him we
believed itwas so, and thereforepwe had resolved to do something forhirn
that should lethim see how sensible we were of the servicehe had done
ugandalsohowagmeeblehewaetous: andthenItoldhimwhetwehad
resolved to give him here, which he might lay out as we would do our
own; andthetssforhischarges,ifhewou1dgowithuswewouldsethim
safe on shore (life and casualties excepted), either in Muscovy or England,
as hewouldchoose, atour ownchsrge,exoeptonlythecarriageofhis
goods. He received the proposal like s. men transported, and toldus he
would go with us over the whole world; end so we all prepared for our '
journey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants:
theyhadmsnythings to do,o.nd instead ofbeing resdyin five weeks,it
was four months and some days before allthings were got together.

It was the begnning of February, New Style, when we set out from
Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back to the port
where we hsdfirstputinto disposeofsomegoodswhichwehadleflz
there; sndeithsChinesemerehnntwhothad some knowledgeof at
Nsnkin,a.ndwhocsmeto Pekinonhisownafi'sirswenttoNankin,where
I bought ninety pieces of 'fine demasks, with ebonttwo hundred pieces--of
otherveryfine silks of severelsorte, some mixed withgold, andhsdall
thesehroughttol'eln'nagainstmypartner'smturn. Besidesthigwebought
a large quantity ofraw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amounting, in
these goods only, to about three thousand five hundred pounds sterling;
whichtogetherwithteaandsomefine calicoes,sn'd three csmels'loeds- of
nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels to: our share beddu
thosewemdeupon; thesewithtwoor three sperehorses,and twohorses
loaded with provisions, made together twenty-six camels and horses in
our retinue

The company was very greatsnd, as near as I can rernember,made -,
betweenthree and four hundred horse, and upwards of one hundredend, " '

'twenty men, very well armed, andprovidcd for ancients; for as'fthe; >>
eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs-so aretheseby.
m ,-

a151'!!me

the Tutors. The company consisted of people of several nations; but
there were above sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though
of them some were Livonians; and to our particular satisfaction, five of
them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great experience in
busineu, and of very good substance.

When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were five in
number, called all the passengers, except the servants, to a great council as
they called it. 'At this council, every one deposited a certain quantity of
money to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on
the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and the like. Here, too, they constituted the
journey, as they call it; viz. they named captains and oficers to draw us
all up, and give the word of command, in case of an attack, and give every
one their turn of command; nor was this forming us into order any more
than what we afterwards found needful on the way.

The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and is full of
potters and earth-makers,--;that is to say, people that temper the earth for
the China ware. As I was coming along, our Portuguese pilot, who had
always something or other to say to make us merry, told me he would
show me the greatest rarity in all the country, and that I should have this
to say of China, after all the ill-humoured things that I had said of it, that
I had seen one thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I
was very importunate to know what it was; at last he told me it was a
gentleman's house built with China ware. " Well," says I, "are not the
materials of their buildings the product of their own country, and so it is
all China ware, is it not?"--"No, no," says he, " I mean it is a house all
made of China ware, such as you call itin England, or as it is called in
our country, porcelain."--" Well," says'I, " such a thing may be; how blg
isit? Ganwecarryitinaboxuponacamel? Ifwecamwewillbuyi "
--" Upon a camel ! " says the old pilot, holding up both his hands; " why,
there is a family of thirty people lives in it."

I was then curious, indeed, to see it; and when I came to it, it was
nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a house built, as we call it in
England, with lath and plaster, but all this plastering was redly China
ware--that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that makes China
ware. The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked
very well, perfectly white, and painted with blue figures, as the large China
wareinEnglandispainted, andhardasif ithad been burned. Astothe

m0! W 03080].

inside, all thewallainstead ofwainscot, were lined with hardened and

painted tiles, like the little square tiles we call galley-tiles in England, all ' ' .

made of the finest China, and the figures exceeding" fine indeed, with.

extraordinary variety of colours, mixedwith gold, manytiles making'hut

one figure, but joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the same

earth, that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors of the

roomswere of the same composition, and as hard as the earthen floors we

haveinuseinseveralpertsof England; asth as stone, and'smooth,but

not burned and painted, except some smaller rooms, like closets, which were

all,asitwe1e, pavedwiththesametile; theceiling and all the plastering

work in the whole house were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof

was covered with tiles of the same, but "of a deep shining black. This was

a China warehouse indeed, truly and literally to be called so, and had I

not been upon the journey, I could have stayed some days to see and

examine the particulars of it. They told me there were fountains and fish-.

ponds in the garden, all paved on the bottom and sides with the same;

and fine statues set up in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the

porcelain earth, burned whole. -
Asthisisoneof the singularities of Chinese theymaybe allowed to

excelinit; butIamverysurethey excelintheiraecounts of it: for they

told me such incredible things of their performance in crockery-ware, for

suchitis,thatIcarenott0relate, asknowingitcouldnot be true. They

told me, in particular, of one workman that made a ship with all its

tackle and meats and sails in earthenwara'hig enoughto carry fifiy men.

If they had told me he launched it, and made avoyage to Japan in it, I

might have said something to it indeed ;- but as it was, I knew the'whole

of the story, which was, in short, that the fellow lied; so I smiled, and.

said nothingto it. This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan,

for which the leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three

shillings; andtoldmeif ithadhen three daydjoumeywithout thewall,

as itwas three dayswithinhe must have fined me four times asmnch,

andmademe askpardontheneit councilday. Ipromisedtohemore

orderly; and, indeed, I found aflerwards the orders made for keeping all

together were abdutely necessary for our commonsafety.
Intwodaysmcrewepassedthe great'ChinaWammade forefortifice--

tion against the Tar-tars: and averygreuwork it iagoingoverhillsand-

mountains in an endless track, when the rocks are impassable, and the

precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed climb upgcr'

<<5 n a1.1""an

where, if they did, no wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is
near a thousand English miles, but that the country is five hundred in a
straight measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the
windings and turnings it takes; it is about four fathoms high, and as many
thick in some places.

I stood still an hour or thereabouts without trespassing on our orders
(for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at it on every side,
near and far ofi' ; I mean what was within my view: and the guide, who had
been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty wet to hear
my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing to keep out
the Turtars; which he happened not to understand as I meant it, and so
took it for a compliment; but the old pilot laughed: "0h, Seignior
Inglese," says he, " you speak in colours."--"In colours!" said I, " what
do you mean by that?"--" Why, you speak what looks white this way,
and black that way,------gay one way and dull another. You tell him it is
a. good wall to keep out Tartors; you tell me by that it is good for
nothing but to keep out Tartars. I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I-
understand you; but Seignior Chinese. understood you his own way."
" Well," says I, "do you think it would stand out an army of our country
people, with a good train of artillery; or our engineers, with two companies
of miners? Would not they batter it down in ten days, that an army
might enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that
there should be no sign of it left?"--"Ay, ay," says he, "I know that"
The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said to the pilot, and I gave
him leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then almost out of their
country, and he was to leave us a little time after this; but when he knew
what I said, he was dumb all the rest of the way, and we heard no more
of his fine story of the Chinese power and greatness while he stayed -

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something like the
Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans, we began
to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined to live
in fortified towns, as being subject to the inroads and depredations of the
Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by
the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here I began to find the
necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw
several troupe of Tartars roving about; but when I came to see them
distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese empire could be conquered

by such contemptible fellows; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows.
466
keeping no order, and understanding no discipline or manner of- fight.
Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit for nothing:
and this we found the first day we saw them, which was after we entered
the wilder part of the country. Our leader for the day gave leave for
about sixteen of us to go a hunting as they call it; and what was this but
a hunting of sheep l--howcver, it may be called hunting, too, for these
creatures are the wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw of their kind:
only they will not run a. great way, and you are sure of sport when you
begin the chase, for they appear general] r thirty or forty in a. flock, and,
like true sheep, always keep together when they fly.

 

THE K01$MKN BEAM A CHARGE 0}! 1'5" TAETAHS.

In put-suit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with about
forty Tar-tars: whether they were hunting mutton, as we were, or'whether
they looked for another kind of prey, we know not; but as soon as they
saw us, one of them blew a hideous blast on a kind of horn. This was to
call their friends about them, and, in less than ten minutes, a troop ol
forty or fifty more appeared, at about a. mile distance; but our work was
over first, as it happened. >

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us;
and as soon as he heard the horn, he told us that we had nothing:r to do but
to charge them without loss of time; and, drawing us up in a line, he

asked if we were resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him; so
467mic manna-roars

he rode directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere
crowd, drawn up in no sort of order at all; but as soon astheysawns
advance, they let fly their arrows, which missed us, very happily. Not
that they mistook their aim, but their distance; for their arrows all fell a
little short of us, but with so true an aim, that had we been about twenty
yards nearer, we must have had several men wounded, if not killed.

Immediately we halted, and though it was at a great distance, we fired,
and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot full--
gallop, to fall in among them sword in hand--for so our bold Scot that led
us directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant, but he behaved with such
vigour and bravery on this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too,
that I never saw any man in action fitter for command As soon as we
came up to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but
they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand any of
them made was on our right, where three of them stood, and, by signs,
called the rest to come back to them, having a kind of scimitar in their
hands, and their bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander,
without asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to them, and with
his fuses knocks one of them ofi' his horse, killed the second with his
pistol, and the third ran away. Thus ended our fight; but we had this
misfortune attending it, that all our mutton we had in chase got away.
We had not a. man killed or hurt; as for the Tartars, there were about five
of them killed-how many were wounded we knew not; but this we
knew, that the other party were so frightened with the noise of our guns,
that they fled, and never made any attempt upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the
Tartan were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days we entered
a vast wild desert, which held as three days and nights' march: and we
were obliged to carry our water with us in great leathem bottles, and to
encamp all night, just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia. I
asked our guides whose dominion this was in: and they told me this was a
kind of border, that might be called no man's land, being a part of Great
Karakathy, or Grand Tartary: that, however, it was all reckoned as belong-
ing to China, but that there was no care taken here to preserve it from the
inroads of thieves, .and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in the
whole march, though we were to go over some much larger. '

In passing this frightful wilderness, we saw, two or three times, little
parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own ufi'airs, and to

<<is
have no design upon us; and so, likethemauwho metthedeViL-if they -'
had nothingtosaytous,wehad nothingtosaytothem: weletthemgo.
0noe,however,spartyof themoame so near as to standand gaaeaths.
Whether itwestooonsider iftheyshould attackusornotwe knewnot;
butwhenwehadpusedat mmedishueebythemwemadearsar-guardof
forty men, and stood ready for them, lettingthe earsv'anpass halfa mile or
thereabouts before us. After a while they marched off, but they saluted
uswithfivearrowsat their parfingwhiohwoundedahorse sothat itdis- '
abledhim, and weleft him the next day, poor creatureingreat need ot'a
goodfarrier. We sawnomorearmwe or Tartars thattime.

We travelled nearamonthafterthis, theways not beingso-goodasat
first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of China, but lay for the
most part in the villages, some of which were fortified, because of the_in- '
cursions of the Tartars. When we were come to one of these tom (about
two days and a halfs journey before we came to the city of Naum), I wanted
to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that
road, and horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans coming
that way, they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to toget me a
camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool, must be
ofiioious, and go myself along with him: the place was about two miles out
of the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels and horses feeding
under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being very desirous
of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a low, marshy
ground, walled round with stones, piled up dry, without mortar or earth
among them, like a park, with a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the door.
Having bought a. camel, and agreed for the price, I came away, and the
Chinese that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden came up five
Tartars on horseback Two of them seized the fellow and took the camel
from him, while the other three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing.
us, as it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but my swerd, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came .up
stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they are arrantoowards; but
a second, coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the head, which I never
felt till afiemardaand wondered, when I came to myself,what was the
matter, andwh'ereI was, forhelaid meflatontheground; but nym-
failingold pilot, the Portuguese, had a pistolinhis pooketwhioh rm
nothing of, nor the Tartar-a either; if they had'I'suppose theywouldnot

m .
have attacked us, for cowards are always boldest when there is no danger.
The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the fellow
that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling
him down by main force a little towards him, with the other shot him in
the head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He then immediately stepped
up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and before he could come forward
again, made a blow at him with a scimitar, which he always wore, but
missing the man, struck his horse in the side of his head, out one of the cars
off by the root, and a great slice down by the side of his face. The poor
beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to be governed by his rider,
though the fellow sat well enough too, but away he flew, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising upon his hind
legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel, but
he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen
upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly weapon he had
by his side, something like a poleaxe, he wrenched it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still; and seeing he did not fly, as he expected,
nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stood stock still, the old
man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle to charge his pistol
again; but, as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left
my pilot, my champion I called him afterwards, a complete victory. '

By this time I was a little recovered I thought, when I first began to
wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said above, I wondered
where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what was the matter. A
few moments after, as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not know
where ; so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody, then I
felt my head ache : and in a moment memory returned, and everything was
present to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my
sword, but no enemies were in view: I found a Tartar lying dead, and his
horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking further, I saw my de-
liverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming back with
hisbangerinhishand. The oldman, seeingme on myfeet, camerunning
to me, and joyfully embraced me, being afraid before that I had beenkilled.
Seeing me bloody, he would see how I was hurt; but it was riot much, only
what we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great incon-

venience from the blow, for it was well again in two or three days.
470 '
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost a camel
and gained a horse. I paid for the lost camel, and sent for another ; but I
did not go to fetch it myself: I had had enough of that.

The city of Naum, which we were approaching, is a. frontier of the
Chinese empire, and is fortified in their fashion. We wanted, as I have
said, above two days' journey of this city, when messengers were sent
express to every part of the road to tell all travellers and caravans to halt
till they had a guard sent for them ; for that an unusual body of Tar-tars,

 

L'IUBOI II "Om" II A scum m m: TAMARA

making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles
beyond the city.

This was very bad news to travellers: however, it was carefully done
of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have a guard.
Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a
garrison of the Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from the city
of Naum, and with these we advanced boldly. The three hundred soldiers

from Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men
'71
on each side of our camels, with our baggage and the whole caravan in the
centre; in this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a
match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartan, if they had appeared;
but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.

Early in the morning, when, marching from a little town called Ghangu,
we had a river to pass, which we were obliged to ferry ; and, had the Tartan
had any intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when the
caravan being over, the rear-guard was behind; but they did not appear there.
About three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, we knew, by a cloud of dust they raised, that
the enemy was at hand, and presently they came on upon the spur.

. Our Chinese guards. in the front, who had talked so big the day before,

began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked behind them, a certain
sign in a soldier that he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of
my mind; and being near me, called out, "Seignior Inglese, those fellows
must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tar-tars come on
they will never stand it."--" I am of your mind," said I ; " but what must be
done ?"---"Done 2 " says he, "let fifty of our men advance, and flank them
on each wing, and encourage them. They will fight like brave fellows in
brave company; but without this, they will every man turn his back."
Immediately I rode up to our leader, and told him, who was exactly of our
mind; accordingly fifty of us marched to the right wing, and fifty to the
left, and the rest made a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the
last two hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels; only that, if need were, they should send a. hundred men to assist
the last fifty. '

At last, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they were;
how many we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, at the least.
A party of them came on first, and viewed our posture, traversing the
ground in the front of our line ; and, as we found them within gunshot, our
leader ordered the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on
each wing with their shot, which was done. Theythen went off, I suppose
to give an account of the reception they were like to meet with; indeed,
that salute cloyed their stomachs, for they immediato halted, stood awhile
to consider of it, and wheeling ofi' to the left, they gave over their design
for that time, which was very agreeable to our circumstances.l

Two days after, we came to the city of Naun, or Naum; we thanked

the governor for his care of us, and collected to the value of a hundred
472
crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us ; and
here we rested one day. This is a. garrison indeed, and there were nine
hundred soldiers kept here ; but the reason of it was, that formerly the Mus-
covite frontiers lay nearer to them than they now do, the Muscovites having
abandoned that part of the country, which lies from this city west for about
two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being
so very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence: for
we were yet above two thousand miles from Muscovy, properly so called
After this, we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts ; one of
which we were sixteen days passing over; and, on the 13th of April, we

 

I'll TABTABS neonatal-ms Till 'KflAvfiLLKRS.

came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think the first town or
fortress, whichever it may he called, that belonged to the Czar, was called
Arguna, being on the west. side of the river Arguna.

I could not but feel great satisfaction that I was arrived in a country
governed by Christians ; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but
.just deserve the name of Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are
very devout in their way. It would certainly occur to any reflecting man
who travels the world as I have done, what a blessing it is to be brought
into the world where the name of God and a. Redeemer is known, adored,
and worshipped; and not where the people, given up to strong delusions,

worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to monsters, elements. horrid-
473
shaped animals, and monstrous images. Not a town or city we passed
through but had their pagodas, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant
people worshipping even the works of their own hands. Now we came
where, at least, a face of the Christian worship appeared; where the knee
was bowed to Jesus: and whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian
religion was owned, and the name of the true God was called upon and
adored; and it made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots
merchant with my first acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the
hand, I said to him, " Blessed be God, we are once again amongst Christians."
He smiled and answered, "Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; these
Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians; and but for the name of it,
you may see very little of the substance for some months further of our
journey."--"Well," says I, "but still it is better than Paganism, and
worshipping of devils."--" Why, I will tell you," says he; " except the
Russian soldiers in the garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities
upon the road, all the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles
further, is inhabited by the worst and most ignorant of Pagans." And so
indeed, we found it.

We now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth that is to be
found in any part of the world: we had, at least, twelve thousand miles
to the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic Sea, west-
ward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea, and went on west,
to the British and French channels: we had full five thousand miles to
the Indian or Persian Sea, south; and about eight hundred to the Frozen
Sea, north.

We advanced from the river Arguna by easy and moderate journeys, and
were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar has taken to have cities and
towns built in as many places as it is possible to place them. where his
soldiers keep garrison, something like the stationary soldiers placed by the
Romans in the remotest countries of their empire; some of which I had
read of were placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, and for the
lodging of travellers. Thus it was here; for wherever we came, though at
these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were Russians, and
professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere pagans, sacrificing to
idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven;
and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met
with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not eat men's flesh.

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Arguna.
474
where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of Tartars and Russians
together, called Nortziousky, in which is a continued desert or forest, which
cost us twenty days to travel over. In a village near the last of these
places, I had the curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most
brutish and unsufferable. They had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day;
for there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree, a diabolical kind of idol
made of wood; it was dressed up, too, in the most filthy manner; its upper
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward ; a great Tartar bonnet
on the head, with two horns growing through it; it .was about eight feet
high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other proportion of parts.

 

GRUSOB ISSVLTS TID'. TAP-TAB IDOL

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and, when I
came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures all lying flat upon
the ground round this hideous block of wood; I saw no motion among
them, any more than if they had been all logs, like the idol, and at first I
really thought they had been so; but, when I came a little nearer, they
started up upon their feet, and raised a howl, as if it had been so many
deep-mouthed bounds, and walked away, as if they were displeased at our
disturbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at the door of a-hut,
made of. sheep and cow skins dried, stood three men with long knives in
their hands ; and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and

one young bullock. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that senseless log of
475
an idol; the three men were priests belonging to it, and the seventeen
prostrated wretches were the people who brought the offering, and were
making their prayers to that stock. '

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of a
hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life, and, overcome with rage,
I rode up to the hideous idol, and with my sword made a stroke at the
bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of our men that
was with me, taking hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, pulled at it,
when, behold, a most hideous outcry ran through the village, and two or
three hundred people came about my cars, so that I was glad to scour for
it, for some had bows and arrows; but I resolved from that moment to
visit them again. Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was
about four miles oil; in order to provide some horses which they wanted,
several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with the longmarch over
the last desert; so we had some leisure here to put my design in execution.
I communicated it to the Scots merchant, of whose courage I had sufficient
testimony; I told him what I had seen, and with what indignation I had
since thought that human nature could be so degenerate; I told him if I
could get but four or five men well armed to go with me, I was resolved to
go and destroy that vile. abominable idol, and let them see that it had no
power to help itself, and consequently could not he an object of worship, or
to be prayed to, much less help them that offered sacrifices to it.

He at first objected to my plan as useless, seeing that, owing to the
gross ignorance of the people, they could not be brought to profit by the
lesson I meant to teach them; and added that, from his knowledge of the
country and its customs, he feared we should fall into great peril by
giving ofl'ence to these brutal idol worshippers. This somewhat stayed my
purpose, but I was still uneasy all that day to put my project in execution;
and that evening meeting the Scots merchant in our walk about the town,
I again called upon him to aid me in it. When he found me resolute he
said that, on further thoughts, he could not but applaud the design, and
told me I should not go alone, but he would go with me, but he would go
first and bring a- stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us;
" and one," said he, " as famous for his zeal as you can desire any one to be
against such devilish things as these." So we agreed to go, only we three
and my man-servant, and resolved to put it in execution lthe following
night about midnight, with all possible secresy.

We thought it better to delay it till the next night, because the caravan

476
being to set forward in the morning, we supposed the governor could not
pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his
power. The Scots merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise '
as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown of sheep-skins,
and a bonnet, with a bow, and arrows, and had provided the same for
himself and his countrymen, that the people, it they saw us, should not
determine who we were; All the first night we spent in mixing up some
combustible matter, with aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials
as we could get; and having a. good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
hour after night we set out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that the
people had not the least suspicion of danger attending their idol. The night
was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol stood
just in the same posture and place that it did before. The people seemed
to be all at their rest; only that in the great hut, where we saw the three
priests, we saw a light, and going up close to the door, we heard people
talking as if there were five or six of them; we concluded, therefore, that if
we set wildfire to the idol, these men would come out immediately, and run
up to the place to rescue it from destruction; and what to do with them we
knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away, and setting fire to it at a
distance; but when we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our
carriage, so we were at a loss again The second Scotsman was for setting
fire to the hut, and knocking the creatures that were there on the head
when they came out ; but I could not join with that; I was against killing
them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well, then," said'the Scots merchant,
" I will tell you what we will do : we will try to make them prisoners, tie
their hands, and make them stand and see their idol destroyed." '

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us, which we
used to tie our firelocks together with; so we resolved to attack these
people first, and with as little noise as we could. The first thing we did we
knocked at the door, when one of the priests coming to it, we immediaton
seind upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and
led him to the idol, where we gagged him that he might not make a noise,
tied his feet also together, and left him on the ground. ,

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would come
out to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till the third man'
came bmk to us ;>> and then nobody comirig'out, ire-knocked again gently,
andimmediatelyout oametwomore, and we sewed themjustinthesame

477
manner, but were obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the
idol some distance from one another; when, going back, we found two more
were come out of the door, and a third stood behind them within the door.
We seized the two, and immediately tied them, when the third, stepping
back and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after them, and taking
out a composition we had madethat would only smoke and stink, he set
fire to it, and threw it in among them. By that time the other Scotsman
and my men, taking charge of the two men already bound, and tied
together also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there, to
see if their idol would relieve them, making haste back to us.

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the but with so much
smoke that they were almost sufi'ocated, we threw in a small leather bag of
another kind, which flamed like a candle, and following it in, we found
there were but four people, who, as we supposed, had been about some of
their diabolic sacrifices. They appeared, in short. frightened to death, at
least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak either, for
the smoke. '

We quickly took them from the hut, where the smoke soon drove us out,
bound them as we had done the other, and all without any noise. Then we
carried them all together to the idol; when we came there, we fell to work
with him. First we daubed him all over, and his robes also, with tar, and
tallow mixed with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and
mouth full of gunpowder, and wrapped up a great piece of wildfire in his
bonnet; then sticking all the oombustibles we had brought with us upon
him. we looked about to see if we could find anything else to help to burn
him; when my Scotsman remembered that by the hut, where the men were,
there lay a heap of dry forage; away he and the other Scotsman ran and
fetched their arms full of- that. When we had done this, we took.all our
prisoners, and brought them, having untied their feet and ungagged their
mouths, and made them stand up, and set them before their monstrous idol,
and then set fire to the whole

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till the powder
in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up, and, as we could
perceive, had split altogether; and, in a word, till we saw it burned so
that it would soon be quite consumed. We then began to think of going
away; but the Scotsman said, " N 0, we must not go, for these poor deluded
wretches will all throw themselves into the fire, and burn themselves with

the ido " So we resolved to stay till the forage was burned down too, and
473
then came away and left them. After the feet was performed, we appeared
in the morning among our fellow-travellers, exceedingly busy in getting
ready for our journey , nor could any man suppose that we had been any-
where but in our beds.

But the afi'air did not end so; the next day came a great number of
the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous manner
demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor for the insulting their priests
and burning their great Chem Chi--Thauugu. The people of Nertsinskay-
were at first in a great consternation, for they said the Tartars were already
no less than thirty thousand strong. The Russian governor sent out
messengers to appease them, assuring them that he knew nothing of it,
andthat therehsdnotasouliuhis garrison been abroad, so that it could
not be from anybody there : but if they could let him know who did it, they
should be exemplarily punished. They returned haughtily, that all the
country reverenced the great Chem Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and
no mortal would have dared to ofl'er violence to his image but some Christian
miscreant; and they therefore resolved to denounce war against him and
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.

The governor, unwilling to make a breach, or to have any cause of war
alleged to be given by him, the Czar having strictly charged him to treat
the conquered country with gentleness, gave them all the good words he
could. At last he told them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that ~
morning, and perhaps it was some of them who had done them this injury;
and that if they would be satisfied with that, he would send after them
to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little; and-accordingly
the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular account how the thing
was; intimatingwithal, thatit' anyinour caravanhaddoneittheyshould
make their escape; but that whether we had done it or no, we should
make allth'e hasteforward thatwas possiblo; and that, jn themean time,
he would keep them in play as long as he could. '

Thiswasveryfriendlyin the governor: however, when it came to the
caravan, there was nobody knew anything of the matter; and as for us
that were. guilty, we were least of all suspected. However, the captain
of the caravan for the time took the hint that the governor gave us,'and
we travelled two days and two nights, without any considerable stop, and
then we lay at a village called Plothus: nor did we make any long
stop here, but hastened on towards Jarawena, another Mus'ccvite colony, '

and where we expected we should be safe. But upon the second days ,

479
march from Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance,
it was plain we were pursued. We had entered a vast desert, and had
passed by a great lake called Schauks Oser, when we perceived a large
body of horse appear on the other side of the lake, to the north, we
travelling west. We observed they went away west, as we did, but had
supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas we very
happily took the south side; and in two days more they disappeared again:
for they, believing we were still before them, pushed on till they came'to
the Udda, a very great river when it passes farther north, but when we
came to it we found it narrow and fordable.

The third day they had either found their mistake, or had intelligence of
us, and came pouring in upon us towards dusk. We had, to our great satis-
faction, just pitched upon a convenient place for our camp; for, as we had
just entered upon a desert above five hundred miles over, where we had no
towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expecmd none but the city Jarawena, which
we had yet two days' march to; the desert, however, had some few woods
in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that we
pitched our camp that night, expecting to be attacked before morning. As
it was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so
the caravans always fortify themselves every night against them, as against
armies of robbers; and it was, therefore, no new thing to be pursued. But
we had this night a most advanmeous camp; for as we lay between two
woods, with a little rivulet running just before our front, we could not be
surrounded, or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We took care
also to make our front as strong as we could, by placing our packs, with
the camels and horses, all in a line, on the inside of the river, and felling
some trees in our rear.

In this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was upon
us before we had finished They did not come on like thieves, as we
expected, but sent three messengers to us, to demand the men to be
delivered to them that had abused their priests, and burned their idol, that
they might burn them with fire; and upon this, they said, they would go
away, and do us no further harm, otherwise they would destroy us all.
Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to stare at one
another to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces; but nobody--
was the word--nobody did it. The leader of the caravan sent word he

was well assured that it was not done by any of our. camp; that we were
<<sopeacefulmechmtatravellingbnofirbuainmfihatwe-had donenohmn'
tothemortoehyoneelse; audthat, therefore, theymuat look fartherfor
theenemieewhohadinjumd them,forwe werenotthepeople;eo.they"
desired them nottodisturbngforif they didweshould defend ourselves.

Theywerefirfrombeingsatisfiedwiththiaforananewer;andegreat
cmwdofthemcamernnningdowninthemomingby'hreakotday,toou!
camp;butseu'nguasowellposted,theyduret eomenofurtherthanthe
bmkinoufiontwhmtheyswodinsuehnumberaetotenifyuavery
much;indeed,somespokeoPStenthoueand. Heretheystoodandlooked
atmawhfleandthenaettingupagreathowL-let flyacrowdofarmwa
amongua;butwewerewellenoughsheltemdunderourbaggage,andldo
notrememberthntoneofuswaahurt.

Some time after this, we saw them move a little to our right, and
expectedthemon the rear: whenacunning fellow,aCossaekofJa1-awena,
callingtotheleaderoftheoaravan,saidtohim,"1willsendalltheas
people away to Siheilka." This was a city four or five days' jonmeyet
leasttothefighhandratherhehindue. Sohetakeehiabowandmows,
and getting on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly,as itwere
back to Nertainekay; alter this he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directlyontheermyoftheTartsm,"ifhehadbeensentexpresetotell
themalong story that thepeople who had burned theGhamChi--Thaungn-
wuegonewSibdlkgwithammmofmismmmuheodledtth
thetistnsayChI-istians:andthattheyhadresolvedtohurhthegodfieal--
Isar,be1ongingtothe Tongues. Asthiefellowwaahimselfail'arter,.and
perfectly spoke their language, he oounterfeifed so well that they all
believed him,and away they droveinayiolent hnrrytofliheilka. Inleaa
thanthreehours theywere entirely out of our sighhmdweneverheard
anymore ofthem,nor whetherthey'wentto'Siheilkaorno. Sowepaseed
away safely onfoJaI-ewena,where themewasaBussian garrison, andthem
wereMedfivedaya, .' >

homthiscitywehadafiightfuldesutwhiohheldustwenty-three_
days'maroh. Wefnrnishedourselveawithsometenhhmlforthebettar~
awommodating ourselvesinthenight; and-the leader of the cal-ample;
curedsixteenwaggonsoftheeonnhmforeerryingourwaterorpmyieiohg
andtheeeoardageewereourdefeneaeverynightmundourfittleoamp;so
thathadtheTuhnappeuednfluetbeyhedhmvuynumousindmd:
theywouldnothaveheenabletohurtua. Wemaywellbeaupposedi-te;
havewanhdmfiagainaflerthislongjoumeydorinthiadesutweneflhegs5

' 481 . I!
saw house nor tree, and scarce a bush; though we saw abundance of the
sable hunters, who are all Tartars of Mogul Tartary, of which this country
is a part; and they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw no num-
bers of them together.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well
inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled by the Czar,
with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the caravans and defend the
country against the Tartars, who would otherwise make it very dangerous
travelling; and his czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well
guarding the caravans, that, if there are any Tartars heard of in the country,
detachments of the garrison are always sent to see the travellers safe from
station to station. Thus the governor of Adinskoy, whom I had an oppor--
tunity to make a visit to, by means of the Scots merchant, who was
acquainted with him, offered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there
was any danger, to the next station.

I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe, we should
find the country better inhabited, and the people more civilised; but I
found myself mistaken in both; for we had yet the nation of the Tong-uses
'0 pass through, where we saw the same tokens of paganism and barbarity as
before; only, as they were conquered by the Muscovitea they were not so
dangerous, but for rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no people in the world
ever went beyond them. They are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their
houses are built of the same; you know not a man from a woman, neither

- by the ruggedness of their countenances nor their clothes; and in the
winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live undergde in
vaults, which have cavities going from one to another. If the Tartars had
their Gham Chi-Thaungu for a whole village or country, these had idols in
every hut and every cave. This country, I reckon, was, from the desert I
spoke of last, at least four hundred miles, half of it being another desert,
which took us up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and
we were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread.
After we were out of this desert, and had travelled two days, we came to
Janezay, a Muscovite city, or station, on the great river Janezay, which,
they told us there, parted Europe from Asia.

All the country between the river Oby and the river Janezay is as
entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the remotest of the Tartars.
I also found, which I observed to the Muscovite governors whom I had an

opportunity to converse with, that the poor-pagans are not much wiser, or
482
nearer Christianity, for being under the Muscovite government, which they
acknowledged was true enough--hut that, as they said, was none of their
business; that if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian, Tongnse, or
Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending clergymen among them, not
soldiers; and they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that it was
not so much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
to make them subjects.

 

03ka IS SURPRISED AT WI 8088"" NOW 0' TRAVELLINE

From this river to the Oby we crossed a. wild uncultivated country,
barren of people and good management, otherwise it is in itself a pleasant,
fruitful, and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found in it are all,
pagans, except such as are sent among them from Russia; for this is the
country--I mean on both sides the river Oby--whither the Muscovite
criminals that are not put to death are banished, and from whence it is

next to impossible they should ever get away. I have nothing material to
483
sayofmyparticularafi'airstill IcametoTobolski,thecspitalcityof
Siberia, where I continued. some time on the following account

We had now been almofi seven months on our journey, and winter
began to come on space; whereupon my partner and I called a council
about our particular affairs, in which we found it proper, as we were bound
for England, to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
sledges and reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter time, by which
means, indeed, the Russians travel more in winter than they can in summer,
as in these sledges they are able to run night and day: the snow, being
frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the hills, vales, rivers
and lakesareall smooth and hard as a stone, and theyrun upon the sub
face, without any regard to what is underneath

But I had no occasion to urge a winter journey of this kind. I was
bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways :I either I
mustgo on as the caravan went, tillI came to Jarislaw,and thengo ofi'
west for Nerve, and the Gulf of Finland, and so on to Dantzic, where I
might possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage; or I must leave the
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by
water to Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping either to
England, Holland, or Hamburgh. '

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been pre-
posterous; for as to Dsntzic, the Baltic would have been ficzen up, and I
, could not get passage; and to go by land in those countrieswas far less
safe than among the Mogul Tartar-s: likewise, as to Archangel in October,
all the ships would be gone from thence, and even the merchants who dwell
there in summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are
gone; so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter,
with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter.
Therefore, upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the
caravan go, and make provision to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in
Siberia, in the latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of three
things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of provisions, such as the
country afl'orded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent company.

I was now in quite a difl'erent climate from my beloved island, where
I never felt cold, except when I had my egue; on the contrary, I had
much to do to hear any clothes on my back, and never made any fire but
without doors, which was necessary for dressing my food, <<to. New Iliad

threegoodvests,with large mbesor gownsoverthm-to'hangdowntc
484
the.feet, and button close tothe Wrists; and all these'ljined withing.
tomakethem'suifioientlywerm. Astoajwaunhouseflgnusteonfeu j
I'greatlydislikeonrwayinEnglandofmaln'ngfireslin sveryroomhpthe .:

thecentrsofsixseveralmomelikeastovegthefunneltoearrxflie
smoke went up one. way, the door to come atthe fire wentjin'another,
and-all themome weiekeptequally warm-,butnofiresemjustasthey
heat baths iii'England- By this means we had alwaysthe sameclimate
mall the rooms; and an equal heat was preserved; and, yet'we sawno
fire; nor were 'ever incommoded with smoke; _ - .
The mostwonderfol thingof allwas, thatit shouldbepossibleto,mee,t
withgoodcompanyhereinacountryso bubarousaethisj--oneofthe
mostnorthernlypartsof Europe But thisbeinglhemh'xwherethe
state criminals of Musoovy, as I observed before, areall banished, this city'
who full of'liussian noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers, end com-tiers Help
was the tamous Prince Galitzin. the old German Robostiski,rand several
other persons of note, and some ladies. 'By means of my Scotch men-
chant whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an aoquaintmee with
several of these. gentlemen; and from these; in the-long winternights in _
Which I stayed'here, I received several very agreeable visits. a _ ' ; '.
Itwastalkingonenightwith aoertainPrinoe,oneofthebanished
ministers of. statehbelonging to the Czar, that-the discourse of my
particular case began Hehad been tellingme abundanoeoffineuthings
of .the greatness, the magnificence, the dominions, : and the absolute
power of the Emperor of the Russians: I'intermpted.liim,and told him
'I was. a greater and more powerful prime than'evegr the Gear: was,
though my? dominions were not so large, or my- people sii many._ The . T
Russiangrandeelookedalittle surprised, mdfiidnghis WW! .
' upon 'me, began to-wonder what I meant. I~89aid hialwmiderwouldeeuse
when 1 had'explained myself, and told him the storyatlnga 01mm _' . ='
in the island; and then how I managed both myself and the.people,tlintl
were under me..just as I have since minutedit.dnwn. flex _
ex'oehdingljtalsen "with the story, and espeoifllxthe- piinna,_whaC/,told
retirement he seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in
the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of his master the User;
that the height of human wisdom was to bring our tempers down to
our circumstances, andtomakeacalmwithin, undertheweightofthe
greatest stoma without. When he came first hither, he said, he used
to tear the hair from his head, and the clothes from his back, as others
had done before him; but a little time and consideration had made
him look into himself, as well as round him, to things without: that
he found the mind of man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon
the state of universal life. and how little this world was concerned in
its true felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, fully
satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and desires, with
but very little assistance from the world. That being new deprived of
all the fancied felicity which he enjoyed in the full exercise of worldly
pleasures, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them,
where he found all manner of deformity; and was now convinced that
virh:eon1ymakesamanhulywise,rich,andgreat,andpreserveshim
in the way to a superior happiness in a future state; and in this,.he
said, they were more happy in their banishnmnt than all their enemies
were, who had the full possession of all the wealth and power they had
left behind them. "Nor, sir," says he, "do I bring my mind to this
politically, from the necessity of my circumstances, which some call
miserable; but, if I know anything of myself, I would not now go back,
tough the Czar my master should call me, and reinstate me in all my
former grandeur."

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much earnestness
and motion of his spirits, that it was evident it was the true sense of his
soul; there was no room to doubt his sincerity. I told him I once thought
myself a kind of monarch in my old station, of which I had given him
an account; but that I thought he was not only a monarch, but a great
conqueror; for he that had got a victory over his own exorbitant desires,
and the absolute dominion over himself, he whose reason entirely governs
hiswiniscertainlygreaterthanhethatconquersacity.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I thought it;
the cold so intense that I could not so much as lack abroad without being
'wrappedinfiuaandakindofmaskoffurbeforemyfaoe,withonly
a hole for breath, and two for sight: the little daylight we had was for

three months not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that
ass
the snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather being clear,
itmneverquiteduk. Ourharsee were keptormtherstswedunde:
ground; ondesforour servants,whom we hired here tolookefter
oumdvesmdhoneewehsdeverynowmdthmtheirfingers'md
toestothewendtakeoereofiledtheyshouldmorfifyendhllofi '

It is true, within doorswe werewerm, the houses being olose,thewnlls
thiehthewindmmsll'nndtheglsssslldouble. Onrfoodwesohiefly
the fleshofdeer,diiedendcumdintheseesou;breadgoodenough,but
baked as biscuitsydried fishofseveral sorts, and some flesh efmutton,
mdofbufdmwhiehisprettygoodmeet. Aflthestaresofpmvisions
forthewintsrerelsidupinthesummer,endwellcumdzourdriuh
wsewnter,mixedwith'equs.-vitm insteedof brandy; andforetreetmeed '
insteedofwine,whioh,'however,theyhsveverygood. Thehunterswho
venture ebroadell weathers, frequently brought us 'in fine venison, and
sometimes beer's fiesh,but we-did not much cure-for the lest. We had
agoodstockoftegwithwhiohwe heetedourfriends, andwe lived,
cheerfullyendtwelLellthingsoousidered.

Itwesnowhieroh,' the days grown considerably longer,endtheweather
stleast tolerable; sotheotber travellembegentoprepsresledgeetoosn'y
themoverthesnowmndtogetthingsreedytobegoing:butmymeeeures'
bemgfixedulheveseidfiorlmhnugehendnotfor'Museovy orthe
Baltic, I made no motion;.-lmowing very well that the ships from the
south do notsetontforthstpart ofthe worldfillMsy orJune, and
thstifIwaetherebythe beginingofAugutitwa-rld'beessoonns
enyships would be readytoseil. Thereforerede nohsste tobe
gauges-others did: in a word, I saw e. great many people, nay,u11 the
'travellers,go away before me. It seems every year they go fmm thence
to Musoovy for trede,to osrryfureend buy necessaries, which theybring
beckwiththem tofurnish their shops:elsoothers weutonthesnme
errand to Archangel '

InthemonthofMebeegantomekeallresdytopeekup; and"!
wesdoingthieitomunedtomethstseeingellthesspeoplewerebenished
bytheCzerto Sibedgsndyet, when they'omethetewerelefieth'berty
togowhithertheywould, why they did not theugoewnyto enypartofthe
world, wherever'they thought fit: and I began to exmine whet should"
'hinder them fiom making such an attempt. But my wonder was are!
\vhenIentered upon that subject with the person I have mentioned'who
emwered me thus : "Consider,'first, sir," saidhe, "the place when weird?f

<<1 V
and, secondly, the condition we are in; esmcially'the generality of the
people who are banished thither. We are surrounded with stronger things
than bars or bolts; on the north side, an unnavigable ocean, where ship
never sailed, and boat never swam ; every other way we have above a thou-
sand miles to pass through the Czar's own dominions, and by ways utterly
impassable, except by the roads made by the government, and through the
towns garrisoned by his troops; in short, we could neither pass undiscovered
by the road, nor subsist any other way, so that it is in vain to attempt i ."

I was silenced at once, and found that they were in a prison every - jot
as secure as if they had been locked up in the castle at Moscow: however,
it came into my thoughts that I might certainly be made an instrument to
procure the escape of this excellent person; and that, whatever hazard I
ran, I would certainly try if I could carryhim ofi'. Upon this, I took
an occasion, one evening, to tell him my thoughts. I represented to him
that it was very easy for me to carry himaway, there being no guard over
him in the country; and as I was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel,
and that I went in the retinue of a caravan, by which I was not obliged to
lie in the stationary towns in the desert, but could encamp every night
where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where I
would immediater secure him on board an English ship, and carry him
safe along with me; and as to his subsistence and other particulars, it
should be my care till he could better supply himself.

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the while
I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face that what I said put his spirits
into an exceeding ferment; his colour fiequently changed, his eyes looked
red, and his heart fluttered, till it might be even perceived in his coun-
tenance; nor could he immediately answer me when I had done, and, as it
were, hesitated what he would say to it: but afier he had paused a. little, he
embraced me, and said, "How unhappy are we, unguarded creatures as we
are, that even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares unto us, and
we are made tempters of one another?" He then heartily thanked me for
my offers of service, but withstood resolutely the arguments I used to urge
himto set himself free. He declared,in earnest temathat he was fully
bent on remaining where he was rather than seek to return to his former
miserable greatness, as he called it; where the seeds of pride, ambition,
avarice, and luxury, might revive, take root, and again overwhelm him.
'* Let me remain, dear sir," he said, in conclusion--"let me remain in this
blessed confinement, banished from the crimes of life, rather than purchase.
' ' 488CRL'SDE TEXPK'S rm: EX".H0 XDBLIHAN N WAVE

and at the

expense of the liberty of my reason,

of freedom at the

a show

w, but should then, I fear,

h I now have in my vie

future happiness whic

3.. Lb'la
mm wwo
h st
m w .m
mm amm
; mmh
8 set
ma ddww
mm not
8 film-1
V. o. d)
mm wed
h nhc
a" Ty
.,e b d
mm" m .m
m !.uwe
dudmh
mwmmuu
s u s
.mwwoafima
efitsww
fl015a t
PL.>> 009
Au 0W
amob .mum
trI. %
mym ,mw
ammo?
urwwem
"mud .mtma
3nd u
finawmo
O.md.nd.m
tden ,
he..lmatm
mwfismm
VJSH
memxm
hatXLw-Mm
0 on
YmnIgo
".menms
i b k
um, mm
QPO I".

489
most violent heat; so I said a word or two, that I would leave him to
consider of it, and wait on him again. and then I withdrew to my own
apartment

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near- the .dcor of my room.
and I was going to open the door, buthe had opened it and come in. "My
dear friend," says he, " you had almost overset me, but I am recovered Do
not take it ill that I do not close with your other. I assure" you it is not for
wantof sense of thekindnessof itinyou; and I came to makethemost
sincere acknowledgment of it to you; but I hope I have got the victory
over myself."--" My lord," said I. "I hope you are fully satisfied that you
do not resist the call of Heaven."---"Sir," said he, "if it had been from
Heaven, the same power would have influenced me to have accepted it; but
I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and
I have infinite satisfaction in the parting, that you shall leave me an honest
man still. though not a free man."

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions to him of
my having no eudin it but a sincere desiretoservehim. He embraced me
very passionately, and assured me he was sensible of that, and should
always acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a very fine present of
sables,--too much, indwd, for me to accept from a man in his circumstances,
and I would have avoided them, but he would not be refused. The next
morningIsentmyservanttohislord-hipwitha smallprseent often, and '
two pieces of China damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which
did not all weigh above six ounces or thereabouts, but were far short of the
value of his ssbles, which. when I came to England. I found worth near two
hundred pounds. He accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and
one of the pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp uponit, of the Japan
coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take any
more: and he sent word by my servant that he desired to speak with me. '

When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed between us. and
hoped I would not move him any more in that affair; but that, since I had
made such a generous offer to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough to
offer the same to another person that he would name to me, in whom he had
a great share of concern. In a word, he told me it was his only son; who,
though I had not seen him, was in the same condition with himself, and

, above two hundred miles from him. on the other side of the Oby; but that

if I consented, he would send for-him.
490
Imademhesitatiombuttoldhimlwoulddoit. Imsdosome
ceremonyinlettinghimunderstandthstitwaswhollyonhisaccount;
mdthatseeing Icouldnotprevailonhim,Iwou1dshowmyrespect
tohimbymyconcernforhisaon. Hesentthenextday forhisscn';
and' in about twenty days he came back with the messenger, bringing
six or seven horses, loaded with very rich furs, which, in the whole.'
amounted to a' very great value. His servants brought the horses into
thetowmbutleittheyounghrdatadistsncefinnightwhenheceme
incognito into our apartment, and his tather presented him to me; and.
inshort, we concerted the manner of our travelling. andsverythingproper
forthejourney.

I had bought a considerable quantity of cables, black fox-skins, fine
ermineaandsuchotherfumsaureveryriohinthatoity,inexchange
forsome ofthegoodsIhadbroughtfiomOhina;inpartioulsr-forthe
cloves and nutmegs,of which I sold the greatest part here. and the rest
afiawudsatAmhwgflforamuchbetterpfioethanIcouldhavegot
at London; and my Mar, who was sensible of the profit, and whose
business, more particularly than mine. was merchandise. was mightily
pleased with our stay,on account ofthe trsflc we made here. .

ItwesthebeginningofJunewhenIleftthisremcteplaoe. Wewere
now reduced'to a very small caravan, having only thirty-twohorees'and
camelsinalehichpaswdformine,thoughmynowguestwaspropxietor
ofelevenofthem. ltwssnaturslalsothatIshouldtskeinoresea-vants
withmethanIhadbefore;andthe younglordpessedformystewardg'
whatgmstmmlpsssedfcrmyeelfilkncwmtneitherdiditconcem
metoinquiie. Wehadheretheworstandthelargestdeserttopuscver
thatwemet within ourwholejourney;IcaJlittheworst,becsusethe.
waywa'avverydeepinsome plam,andveryuneveninothers;thebest
wehadtoaayforitwagthatwethoughtwehsdno troops ofTsrtaraor
robberstofear,astheynevercameonthissidsoftheriverOby,oratleut
veryseldom; but we found it otherwise.

My young lord had a fiaithful Siberian servant, who was perfiectiy
acquainted with the country, and led us by private roads, so that we
avoided coming into the principal towns and cities upon the great road;
suchas Tumen, soloy Kamsskoy, and several others; because the Mosco-
vite gen-inane which are kept there are very curious and strict in flieir '

observation upon travellers, and searching lest any of the banished persons
on
of note should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but, by this
means, as we were kept out 'of the cities, so our whole journey was a
desert, and we were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents, when we might
have had very good accommodation in the cities on the way; this the
young lord was so sensible of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad
when we came to several cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his
servant, in the woods, and met us always at the appointed places.

We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which in
these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first city on
the European side was called Soloy Kamaskoy, that is, the great city on
the river Kama. And here we thought to see some evident alteration in the
people ; but we were mistaken; for as we had a vast desert to pass, which
is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above two
hundred miles over where we passed it, so, till we came past that horrible
place, we found very little difi'erence between that country and Mogul
Tartary. The people are'mostly Pagans; their houses and towns full of
idols; and their way of .living wholly barbarous, except in the cities, and
the villages near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves,
of the Greek church: but have their religion mingled with so many relics
of superstition, that it is'scarce to be known in some places frommere
sorcery and witchcraft.

In passing this forest (after all our dangers were, to our imagination,
escaped), I thought, indeed, we must have been plundered and robbed, and
perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves : of what country they were, I am
yet at ,a loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried bows and
arrows, and were at first about forty-five in number. They came so near to
.us as .to be within two musket-shot, and, asking no questions, surrounded
us with their horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at length,
they placed themselves just in our way; upon which we drew up in a little
line, before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all. Thus drawn
up, we halted, and sent out the Siberian servant, who attended his lord,
to see who they were; his master was the more willing to let him go,
because he was not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop
sent out after him. The man came up near them with a flag'of truce, and
called to them ; but though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects
of languages rather, he could not understand a word they said; however,

after some signs to him not to come near them at his peril, the fellow came
<<92
back no Wiser than he went; only that by their dress, he said, he believed
them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that
there must be more of them upon the great desert, though he never heard
that any of them were seen so far north before.

This was small comfort to us ; however, We had no remedy : there was
on our left hand,- at about a quarter of a. mile distance, a little grove, and
very near the road. I immediately resolved we should advance to those
trees, and fortify ourselves as well as We could there ; for, first. I considered

 

TIIE 'rluu'uus um for 1:410 oosrusiun.

that the trees would in a. great measure cover us from their arrows ; and, in
the next place, they could not come to charge us in a body : it was, indeed,
my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this cxcellency
attending him, that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and
encourage us in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately,
with what speed we could, and gained that little wood; the Tartars, or
thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not

attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our great
498
satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the one side a
very great spring of water, which, running out in a little brook, was a
little farther joined by another of the like size; and was, in short, the
source of a considerable river, called afterwards the Wirtska; the trees
which grew about this spring were not above two hundred, but very large,
and stood pretty thick, so that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves
perfectly safe from the enemy unless they attacked us on foot.

While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some hours,
without perceiving that they made any movement, our Portuguese, with
some help, out several arms of trees half off, and laid them hanging across
from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us in. About two hours
before night, they came down directly upon us; and though we had not
perceived it, we found they had been joined by some more, so that they
were near fourscore horse ; whereof, however, we fancied some were women.
They came on till they were within half-shot of our little wood, when we
fired one musket without bail, and called to them in the Russian tongue to
know what they wanted, and beds them keep ofl' ; but they came on with a
double fury up to the wood side, not imagining we were so barricaded that
they could not easily break in. Our old pilot was our captain, as well as our
engineer, and desired us not to fire upon them till they came within pistol-
shot, that we might be sure to kill, and that when we did fire we should be
sure to take good aim ; we bade him give the word of command. which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes' length of
us when we let fly. We aimed so true, that we killed fourteen of them,
and wounded several others, as also several of their horses; for we had all
of us loaded our pieces with two or three bullets apiece at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated immediately
about one hundred rods from us; in which time we loaded our pieces again,
and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and caught four or five
of their horses, whose riders we supposed were killed; and coming up to
the dead, we judged they were Tartars, but knew not how they came to
make an excursion such an unusual length.

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and rode
round our little wood to see where they might break in; but finding us
always ready to face them. they went oif again; and we resolved not to stir
for that night i

We slept little, but spent the most part of the night in strengthening
494
our situation, and barncading the entrances into the wood, and keeping a
strict watch We wuiwd for daylight, and when it came, it gave us at
very unwelcome discovery indeed; for the enemy, who we thought were
discouraged with the reception they met with, were now greatly increased,
and had set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they were resolved to
besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched upon the open plain,
about three-quarters of a mile from us. I confess, I now gave myself
over for lostandall thatIhad; the loss of myefl'eotsdidnotlie so near
me, though very considerable, as the thoughts of telling into the hands
of such barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, after so many
difieulties and hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of our
port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As to my partner, he
was raging, and dech that to lose his goods would be his min, and
that he would rather die than be starved, and he was for fighting to
the last drop.

The young lord, a most gallant youth, was for fighting to the last also;
and myoldpilotwasofopinionthatwewere able to resist themallinthe
situation we were then in. Thus we spent the day in debates of what we

should do; but towards evening we found that the number of our enemies .

still increased, and we did not know but by the morning they might still
be a greater number; so I began to inquire of those people we had brought
from Tobolski, if there were no private ways by which we might avoid
them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get help to guard
us over the desert. The young lord's Siberian servant told us, if we
designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry us of in

the night, to a way that went north, towards the river Petr-us, by which he-

made no question but we might get away, and the Tartars never discover
it; but, he said, his lord had told him he would not retreat, but would
rather choose to fight. I told him he mistook his lord: for that he was too
wise a man to love fighting for the sake of it; that I knew he was brave
enough, by what he had showed already; but that he knew better than to
desire sevenwen or eighteen men to fight five hundred, unlem an unavoid-
able necessity forced them to it; and that if he thought it possible flu- us
toesoape in the night, we had nothing elsetodobuttoattemptit. He
answmd, if his lordship gave him such orders, he would lose hislit'e if he
did not perform it; we soon brought his lord to give that order, though
privately, and we immediately prepared for putting it in practice. .
(95

Q
And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in our little
camp, which we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all night,
that the Tartars might conclude we were still there; but as soon as it was
dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide would not stir before),
having all our horses and camels ready loaded, we followed our new guide.
who 'I soon found steered himself by the north star, the country being level
for a long way.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter still;
not that it was dark all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in short,
it was rather lighter than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next
morning, we had got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses.
Here we found a. Russian villge, named Kermazinskoy, where we rested,
and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours
before night, we set out again, and travelled till eight the next morning,
though not quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock, we passed a
little river, called Kirtza, and came to a good large town inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomys; there we heard that several troops of Kalmueks
had been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely out of
danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction. Here we were obliged
to get some fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we stayed five
days; and my partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian who
conducted as thither the value of ten pistoles.

In five days more we came to Veussima. upon the river Witzogda, and
running into the Dwina: we were there, very happily, near the end of our
travels by land, that river being navigable, in seven days' passage, to
Archangel. From hence, we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3d of July; and,
providing ourselves with two lame boats. and a barge for our own
convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel the
18th; having been a year, five months, and three days on the journey,
including our stay of about eight months at Tobolski.

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the arrival of the
ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburgher come in above
a month sooner than any of the English ships ; when, after some considera-
tion that the city of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a market for
our goods as London, we all took freight with him; and, having put our
goods on board, it was most natural for me to put my steward (in board to

take care of them; by which means, my young lord had a sufficient
496
opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore again all the time
we stayed there; and this he did that he might not be seen in the city,
where some of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and
discovered him.

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same year;
and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 18th of

 

 

 

 

61'>>an PRRFABHB FOR "18 LAST JOL'KSEY.

September. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for our'goods,
as well those of China, as the snbles, &c. of Siberia; and, dividing the
produce, my share amounted to PS3,475 17s. 3d., including about six
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I purchased at Bengal
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, in
order to go to the oonrt of Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection
497 K Knomaoxoaum'

andoonldoorrespondwiththoaeofhiafiflm'afiiendl-whammmu
Eedidnotpartwithoutteafimonialaofgmfitudeforthemvioalhddom
mumdformykindnesatotheprinmhiahthar. .
To conclude: having atayednaarfour mnthsinflmburghlcam'e
m'thmbyhndmthefiagugwhmlmbukedhfliepackfiand
arrivedinLondonthe 10th of January, 1705, havingbeenabaentfrom-
Englandtanyearaandninemontha Andhere, resolvingtoharaumyaelf
no moralamprepanngfioralonserjomeythmauthmhaunghved
aeventy-twoyeunalifiaofinflnibayariety,andlearnedaumoianflyfoknow
thevalueofnfirementandthebleaaingofendingoudnyainpeaoo.

THE END.

_--___----------
man. man an" m LONDON, N...