CRUSOH RESCUING THE INDIANS.

a"TEE'

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

OF YORK, MARKER.

ILLUSTRATED WITH

ONE HUNDRED AND TEN WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

 

WARD, LOCK AND 00.,
LONDON, NEW YORK, AND MELBOURNE.CONTENTS.

------.

SECTION I.
91:"
Robinson's Family. tor-His EIOpement from his Parents emmmu-umnncou 1

SECTION II.
First Adventures "Sen, and Experience of a. Maritime Lira--Voyage to

Guillea tic-eon use..." I" lpoo."nminonocvcocoofioooeoOuIII." OIII "cactus" looonllouooonooo I out...

SECTION III.
Robinson's Captivity at Saliee.---Escape with any.--Arrival at the Bmiis. 11

SECTION IV.
He settles in the Brasils as a Puritan-Makes another V05 age. and is Ship-

wrecked on mucus-cu- ICIMIIOIOIIOOOCOOICUUO I... 900000.". I "I"!OOOOOII" 000-0 "00" 000000sIOOOOIIIOl 26

SECTION V.

Robinson finds himself in a Desolste Island.--Procures a Stock of Arficies
from the Wreck-Constructs his Habitatiou .......... 8)

SECTION V 1.

Carries all his Riches, Provisions, so. into his Habitetiom--Dresriness of
sontuae.-00u80]at0ry mnection' cocoons.--ulcouosso-oossooohoouone"!lovwoluvnfim N

SECTION VII.

Robinson's Mode of Reckoning Timer-Difficulties srising from wt of
TWO-E0 mans" his Habimtio!' '0'...OOIOIOOOOIOIOIIDCOOOOI."OOOIDIUOIODOOCOOOIIIO.V I. 42

SECTION VIII.

Robinson's JournsL...Detaiis of his Domestic Economy and Oontrlvsnoes.
--Shm'k of an Bmhome "DOW"...IIOOCQIIOIIIIOOOIIlM-HM~. "em-<<em '3

SECTION IX.
Robinson obtains more Articles born the Wreck--His Illness and "motion 53

SECTION X.

His Recovery-His Comfort in Reading the Scriptures--Makes an Ember.
sion into the Interlorof the lama-Forms his " Bower" ........... mo>>- 57iv cournurs

ers
SE CTION XI.
Robinson makes a Tour to Explore his Island ........................... ....... ........ 65

SECTION XII.
He returns toms Cave--His Agricultural Labours and Success mum"... 69

SECTION XIII.
His Manufacture of Pottery, and Contrivsnce for baking Bmomm fl

SECTION XIV.

\[editates his Escape from the Island--Builds a Cancer-Failure of his
Scheme--Resignation to his Condition--Makes himself a new Dress ...... 13

SECTION XV.

He rushes a. smaller Csuoe.in which he attempts to cruise round the Island.
--IIis perilous situation at Sea..~He returns home................................... .. so

SECTION XVI.

He rears 8 Flock of Goats--His Diem--His Domestic habits and Style of
Living--Increasing Prosperity ....... .. ..... . ......................... ......... so

SECTION XV! 1 .
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehensiou.-- He For-tides his Abode.- 93

SECTION XVIII.

Precautions against Surprise--Robinson discovers that his Islsnd has been

SECTION XIX.

Robinson discovers s Gave which serves him as s Retreat against the
Snvsgcs................................................................................................... 1w
SECTION XX.

.---Robinson sees them dancing.--Peroelves the

 

Another visit of the Savages
Wreck or a Vessel......

   
 

SECTION XXI.

116 visits the Wreck and obtains many Stores from ilk--Again thinks of
quitting the Island-Has a remarkable Dream.....................................m. m

S I'CTION XXII.

Robinson rescues one of their Captives from the Savages. whom he mes
Friday, and makes his Servant................................................................ m

SECTION XXIII.

Robinson instructs and civilises his man wFridsy--Endesvours to give him
an Idea Of Christianity. ... ... .uual. ... u u. <<.55.. '... Hun." nun .- .- uu-uu .. ... .u 12'comm 7

SECTION XXIV.
rm

Robinson and Friday build s. Ctnoe'to csrry them to Friday's Country.--
Their Scheme prevented by the arrival of a Party of Semes...-.............. in

SECTION XXV.

Robinson releases a Spaniard--Friday discovers his Fallen-Accommoda-
tion provided (or these new Guests-who use afterwards sent to liberate
the other Spaniards--Arrival of on English Vessel ................................. 13')

SECTION XXVI.

Robinson discovers himself to the English Captain--Assists him in redueing
his mutinous Cram-who submit to him ................................................. :52

SECTION XXVII.

Atkins entreets the Captain to spore his Life.---The letter recovers his Vessel
from the Mummers--And Robinson leaves the Islend..............m............. 163

SECTION XXVIII.

Robinson goes to Lisbon. where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders
him an Account of his Property in the Emile--Sets out on his Return to
England by Lend .............. ............................. . ...... . .......... 111

SECTION XXIX.

Friday's Encounter with s Been--Robinson sud his fellow Travellers
attacked by 3 Flock of Wolves--His Arrangement of his mm, and
Marriage after his Return to England........................ .. 179

SECTION XXX.

He is seized with e Desire to revisit his Island--Loses his Wife--is tempted
to go to Sen mam--Takes out a Cargo for his Colony .............................. 187

SECTION XXX! .
Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew of a French Vessel that bed caught Fire... 190

SECTION XXXII.
Believes the Crew of s Bristol Ship, who are starving--Arrives ut his

Island ...-............................................................................m........-....... 198

SECTION XXXIII.

mobinson and Friday go whore--Tho lstter meets with his When-Account
e! whet passed on the Island after Robinson's quitting it ........................ in

SECTION XXXIV.

The Account unnamed--Queuei- between the Englishmen--A Bottle
between two Parties of Savages who visit the Island--Fresh Hutiny
omens: the Settlers .............................................. ............. .. .. InVI comm".

SECTION XXXV.

PLO!
l'he mntinons Englishmen are dismissed flow the Island-Return with

several captive Savages.---'1'ake tho Females u Wives .................... 222

SECTION XXXVI.

Several Savages killed; the Remainder leave the Islande--A Fleet of them
afterwards arrive.--A general Eamon--Th Savages are overcome, and
tranquillity restored 233

SECTION XXXVII.

Robinson learns from the Spaniards the Dimculties they had to encounter.-
He furnishes the People with Tools, &c.---The French Ecclesiastic 246

SECTION XXXVIII.

Encounter with Savages at, Sod--Friday's Death--Robinson finds his former
Partner in the Brazils.---Sails for the Enst Indies 25

5EC'l'ION XXXIX.

The Vessel touches at Malignant--Am" with the Natives,--who are mas-
sacred by the Crew.---Tlm Sailors afterwards romsa to sail with Robinson,
who is left by his Nephew. the Captain, in Bengal. 250

 

SECTION XL.

Elects with an English Merchant with whom he makes some trading
\'uyages.-They are mistaken for Pirates.--Vnnqnish their Pursuan--
V'oyage to China--Becontre with the Cochin-Chinese.---Island of Formosa.
--Gulf of Nanquin.--.--lpprohension of falling into the Hands of the Dutch. 28::

SECTION XLI.

Ionrney to Pekin.--Robinson joins 5 Caravan proceeding to Moscow.---ch-
centres wifih the Tartan!

SECTION XLII .

Route through Mnscovy.---Robinson and a Scots Merchant destroy an Idol.
--The whole Caravan in great Peril from the Pursuit of the Pagans.--
TobolskL--Dcparzuro from Tobolski.-Encounter with a Troop of Robbers
"n the Dewar-Robinson roaehon Archangel. and finally arrives in England 295BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE

OF THE

AUTHOR OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

DANIEL Daron, the author of numerous works of fiction, among
which the " History of the Plague " has attained a certain popularity,
and " Robinson Crusoe" a lasting and world-wide renown, was born
in the parish of St. Giles, Cri plegate, in the city of London, in the
year 1661. He was educate at a disseut' school at Newington
Green; his father, a strict dissenter, intending 'm for the priesthood.
But this project seems to have been abandoned, for some unknown
reason, and young Daniel became a tradesmen, like his father. Some-
thin of the roving, restless nature, so admirably described in
" R0 inson Crusoe," seems to have been inherent in Defoe himself;
for his life is full of strange vicissitudes, and he a pears continually
involved in trouble on one account or another. Vge find him taking
part in the most ill-considered and unfortunate enterprise of his
time, the Rebellion of Monmouth, and narrowly escaping what the
cynical spirit of the time dubbed " a merry o-round at repe fair,"
namely, oath by strangulation, for the o ence. _ In after-life he
was hotly embroiled in the political quarrels of his age. At one
time he was compelled to stand in the pillory, as a punishment for
writin a well-timed and thoughtful pamphlet on " The shortest wa
with t it) Dissenters." The opulace, Eympathizin with and a -
miring him, crowned the pil ory with owers, an converted his
penance into a triumph; but this could not relieve him from the

urden of the heavy fine he was compelled to pay, and which ham-
pered him for years afterwards. At another time he Suffered a long
imprisonment, obtainina his release after two years by the interven-
tion of Harley, Earl of (Oxford. But he had not the art of advancing
his fortunes, though his evident merit procured him employment in
several matters of conse uence; and, at the end of his on life, he
was in poverty and ne eet. He died in his native paris of St.
Giles, Cripplegate, Apr' 24, 1731, at the age of seventy, and was
interred in Bunhill Fields burialoground.

The political works of Defoe are numerous, and had a sensrble
efl'ect on the times in which he lived. A thorou h En lishman, out-
spoken, vehement, and uncompromising, he 5 cute out lustily
against abuses and wrong-doing w erever e found them; and in many
respects his ideas were greatly in advance of his time. Some of his
schemes may have been Visionary and impracticable ; but it is pleasant-
to hear his sturdy voice raised, and to see his nervous pen wielded so
unflinchinglyin advocacy of his principles, and to mark howunvaryingly
those principles point to moderation, mercv and the law of kindness.mi. monument. noncn.

His Review, which he conducted for nine years, may certainly be
considered as the pioneer of the Spectator, Taller, Guardian, and
other collections of essays which enriched the literature of the first
half of the eighteenth century.

His political writings, however, have mostly passed away with the
troublous times which gave them birth. and to which their interest
was confined. It was as a writer of fiction that Defoe was to
achieve more lasting fame. Two, at least, of his works have a value
and a significance uite irrespective of time and place,---the one as a
record of a natio calamity, the other as a wonderful piece of ima-
ginary autobiograph '. These two books are the "History of the
Plague of 1665," an the " Adventures of Robinson Crusoe."

At the time when the scourge was decimatingl London, Daniel
Defoe was only four years old. It could not, t erefore, be from
memory that he so vividly described its incidents; though, doubtless,
in his youth he heard many an anecdote about the pestilence and its
ravages, from men of maturer years, on whose memories it must have
made an indelible impression. But his chief talent lay in the
management of detail and accurate description; and it is difficult to
imagine, as we read the raphic record of the state of the terror-
stricken, desolate city, tint we have not before us the real daily
notes of an actual indweller in the city of the lngue. In Robinson
Crusoe the some marvellous ower is shown, ut in a much hioher
decree. With matchless skill, the doubts and sorrows, the shifts
and expedients, the little domestic triumphs and disappointments oi
the ship-wrecked mariner in his solitar home are put before the
reader in the very form most calculate to enlist his interest and
sympathies. So thoroughly has the author identified himself with the
hero of his romance, that Defoe disappears, and it is Robinson Crusoe
himself who becomes a living personality, and moves and speaks
before the reader, and becomes as clearly and distinctly personified
as any hero of real life.

The first edition of Robinson Crusoe was published in 1719. In
the century and a half that has since elapsed, hundreds of edi-
tions have a peered in all European languages. Everywhere the
book has wor 'ed its way; and as for the German version, " Robinson
de Jungere" is chronicled as one of the greatest successes of the
eminent Hamburg]: firm of Campe and Co.

In the present volume, the original text, slightly shortened, has
been adhered to. The operation of modernizing the language, ne-
cessary, perhaps, in a scientific work, would have taken away one of
the chief charms from the narrative of the simple sailor, who is
therefore left to tell his tale in his own rouoh, pathetic, old-fashioned
way. The drawings are from an eminent ermnn pencil, and apart
{10m their artistic value, serve the purpose of thoror-ghly illustrating
t e text.
ROBINSON'S FAMILY, FPO--HIS EWPEMEN'I' FROM HIS PARENTS.

I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father bein a foreigner of Bremen,
named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hul . He got a cod estate
by merchandise, and leavi off his trade, lived afterwnr s at York;
from whence he had marrie my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after whom I was
so called, that is to say, Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corruftion of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call
curse ves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companion: always
called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an
English reoiment of' foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of m second brother, I never
knew, an more than my father and mot er did know what was
become 0 me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. My
father, who was very aged, had given me a competent. share of
leamin , as far as house education and a country free school general]
go, an designed me for the law; but I would be satis ed wit
nothin but going to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
strongy against the will, nay, the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that pro ension of
nature, tending directly to the life of miserv which was to fail me2 mvzn'miu-zs or nonrnson enusou.

My fat-her, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my desi 11. He called me one
morni a into his chamber, where he was co ed by the gout, and
expostu ated very warmly with me upon this subject; he asked me
what reasons, more than a mere wandering inchnation, I had for
leaving his house, and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raisin!r my fortune, by application
and industry, with a life of ease and easure. He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes, on one hen , or of superior fortunes, on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, aspiring to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertaki s of nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or
what. might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found, by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human haipincss; not exposed to the miseries and hard
ships, the labour an sullerings, of the mechanic part of mankind,
and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy oi
the upper part of mankind : he told me, I might judge of the happi
ness of this state by one thing, vie, that this was the state of life
which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of beinry born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of two extremes, between the
mean and the oreat; that the wise man gave his testimony to this
as the just. stan urdot Irne felicity, when he prayed to have "neither
povert ' nor riches,"

He ado me observe it, and I. should alwe s tind, that the caiann
tics of life were shared amen" the upper on lower part- of mankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
nncasinesscs, either of body or mind, as those were, who, bv vicious
living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, by hard labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the other hand,
bring clistcmpers upon themselves by the natural consequences oi
their way of living; that the middle station of life wus'calculated for
411 kind of virtues, and all kind of cnjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the hundnmids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and
all desirable pleasures were the bleSsings attending the middle
station of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly thro h
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with 1the
labours of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slaverv
for dail bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob
the so of peace, and the body ol rest; not enraged with the passion
of envy, or secret burning lust of ambitino for great things ; but, in
easy Circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensiblywvenrunes or noemson causes. 3

tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeliu that they are
happ ,1 and learning by every day's experience, to inow it more
sensr .

Aftei: this he [liressed me earnestly, and in the most afi'eetionate
manner, not to p ay the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born in seemed
to have rovided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
firmly into the station of life which he had been just recommending
to me; and that if [ was not very easy and ha py in the world, it
must be my more fate, or fault, that must hindbr it; and that he
should have nothing to answer for, havin thus discharged his duty
in warning me against measures which he new would be to my hurt;
in a word, that he would do very kind thinos for me if I would
stay add settle at home as he directed; he told me I had my elder
brother for an example, who had run into the army, where he was
killed during-the Low Country wars; that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to asmst in my recovery.

I observed the tears run own his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that, when he
spoke of m havim leisure to re cut, and none to assist me, he was
so moved, that he broke ofi' the 'scourse, and told me his heart was
so full, he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of goingr abroad any
more, but to settle at home, according to my father's desire. But
alas! a few days wore it all off: and, in short, to prevent any of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved
to run quite away from him. However, I did not act so hastily,
neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anything with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give me his
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now e'rrhteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or c erk to
an attorney; that I was sure, it I did, should never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my master befn '9, my
time was out, and go to sea; and if she would 5 eak to my father to
let me make but one voyage abroad, it I came iome again, and did
not like it, I would go no more; and 1 would promise by a doublt
dilin'enee, to recover the time I had lost.

'z'his put my mother in a great passion: she told me she knew it
would be to no purpose to speak to 'my father upon any such a sub-
ject; that he know too well what was my interest to give his consent4 ADVENTURES 02 3013131502: causes.

to anything so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing, after such a discourse as I had from
my father, and such kind and tender engressions as she knew my
father had used: that for her art, she wo d not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I sho d never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as 1 have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him; and that
m father, after showing agreat concern at it, said to her with a sigh:
" t boy mic-ht be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he wiIl be the most miserable wretch that ever was born;
I cannot give consent to i ."

 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose; though
in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all roposals of
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father
and mother about their being so positively determined against what
they knew my inclinations rompted me to. But being one d
Hull, whether I went casu y, and without any purpose of mag
an elopement at that time, and one of my companions then goin
to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them by the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left
them to. hear of it as they might, without asking Gods blessing,
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows.

a at
'mg_--\ ' a>>.
'1'?-

 

 

SECTION II.

FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME HIE.
VOYAGE TO GUINEA.

ON the lst September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship had no
sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise, in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been
at see before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind; I be u now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and
how justly Fives overtaken b the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly
leaving my father's house. ll the good counsels of my ents, my
father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now resh to my
mind; and m conscience, which was not yet come to the itch of
hardness to w 'ch it has been since, to roached me with t 6 con-
tem t of advice, and the abandonment o my duty.

this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothin like what
I have seen many times since; no, not what I saw a few ays after;
but, such as it was, enough to afi'ect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I expeete
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that eve time the
ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow ol't see, we
should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I made man
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to are :in e
this voyage, if ever I at my foot once on dry land, we d kg:
directlY home to mv fat r. andnever set it into a ship again w
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life; how easy, how
comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed
to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved thatI would,
like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued during the storm, and
indeed sometime after; but the next day as the wind was abated,
and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it. However, I
was very grave that day, being also alittle sea-sick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a smooth
sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
deli htful that I ever saw.

I ad slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but
very cheerful, looking with wonder u on the sea that was so rough
and terrible the day before, and co d be so calm and pleasant in a
little time after.

 

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, " Well, Bob,"
clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I warrant
you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew a cap-
full of wind ?"--" A cap-full, do you call it?" said I; " 'twas a terrible
stormf'--" A. storm you fool '5'" replies he, " do you call that a storm!
"Thy, it was nothing at all ; give us but a good ship, and sea-room,
and we think nothing of such a squall of mud as that ; you are but
a fresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. D'ye see what charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in
one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.
In a word as the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface andsm'znrvnes or 3013me causes. 7

settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of

my thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowe up b t e sea forgotten, and the current of my former
desires retume , I entirely

made in my distress.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came Into Yarmouth Roads -
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had
made but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great
many ships from r'ewcastle came into the same roads, as a common
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had lain
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage ood, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least appre-
hensive of danger, but Spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our tapmasts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as
possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought, once or twice our
anchor had come ome; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and cables veered
out to the better end. -

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen themselves.
The master was vigilant in the business of preserving the ship; but,
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
say to himself several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be
a]. lest; we shall be all undone ;" and the like.

The storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and ex cctino every moment the ship would go to
the botton. In the middle oi3 the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, " We have sprungr a leak!" another man said "there was
four foot water in the hold." Then all hands were called to the
pum . At that very word my heart as I thought, died within me,
and I fell backwards upon the side of m bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, an told me that I. who was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pm as another; at
which I stirred up and went to the pump, and wor ed very heartily.
While this was db' , the master seeing some light eolhers, who,
not able to ride out t e storm, were ob 'oed to slip and run away to
use, and would not come near us. ordere us to fire a gun as a signal

orgot the vows and promises I had8 ADVENTURES or nonmson meson

of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised,
that I thou ht the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing happened.
In a word, was so sur rised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when every ody had his own life to think of, no one
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man step ed
up to the pump, and thrustinv me aside with his foot, let me ic,
thinklifpg I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to
m se .

yWe worked on; but the water increas' in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and t ough the storm begin
to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we
mi ht run into a port;---so the master continued firing guns for help:
an a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventureda boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat
lie near the ship's side; till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope
over our stem with a buoy to it. and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all int-0 the boat.
it was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat were stared upon shore, he
would mike it good to their master; so partly rowing and artly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping toward; the
shore almost as far as Wintertnn-Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship
when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the first time
what was meant by a ship founderinv in the sea. I must acknow
ledge, I had hardly eyes to look up w on the seamen told me she waa
sinkin ; for, from that moment, the rather put me into the boat
than t at 1 might be said to go in.. - y heart was, as it were, dean
within me, partly with fri ht, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet Eefore me.

While we were in this condition, the men et labouring at the oar
to bring the boat near the shore, we coul see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a great many
people running 2310110 the strand, to assist us when we 5 iould come
near; but we madeilmt slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach it, till being past the li hthouse at Winterton, the
shore falls off to the westward, towar Cromer, and so the land
broke of a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and,
though not without much difiiculty, got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by the mrticm' merchants and ownersMuseums or nosmsox 01117502. 9

of ships; and had money given us suficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem of our

 

blessed Savioui"starable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for,
hearing the ship went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I; the first time hes oke
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or t ree
days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters ; I saithe
first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, 100 ing
very melancholy, and sh ing his head, he asked me how I did;
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
fora trial, in order to go farther abroad. His father talked very
gravel, to me; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt

rovi ence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; "and, young man," said he, " depend u on it, if
you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with not inc but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are fuliilled
upon you."

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not; as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well as on the road, had many struggles with myself what course of
life I should take, and whether I should go lime or go to sea. As
to going home, shame opposed the best motions that oifered to my

3
thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed
at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not in
father and mother only, but even everybody else. From whence
have often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
tem er of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which
oug it to guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action f0
which they ought justly to he esteemed fools; but are ashamed on
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or as the
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good com an in Lon-
don; I became acquainted with the master of a ship, wlio lied been
on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again. He, tak' a fancv to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at t at time, and hearintr me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, that if I would go t at voyage
with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmatc and
his companion; and if I could carry anything-with me, I should have
all the advantage of it the trade would admit, and perhaps I might
meet with some encour <<rement. I embraced the offer, and, entering
into strict friendship wit I this contain, who was an honest and plain-
:lealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
write me; which, by the disinterested honesty of my frieiid the ca -
tain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about forty ponn s
in such tors and hides as the ca tain directed me to buy. This
forty pounds [mustered together ll} the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with; and who I believe, got my
father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of mathematics and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa
tion, and, in short, to understand some throws that were needful to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took dZIiglit to instruct me, I
took delin-ht to learn; and. in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; l'orl brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, on
my return, almost three hundred pounds, and this filled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yet
even in this voyage 1 had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that l
was continually sick, being thrown intoa violent calenture by the ex-
cessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast
from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the 'ine itself
ROBINSON'S CAPIIVITY AT SALLEE--ESCAPE WITH XURY--ARRWAL
AT THE BRAZILS.

I was now set up for a Guinea. trader; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyarre that ever man made; for
though I did not carry uite a humfred ounds of my new- ined
wealth, so that I had two undred pounds eft, and which I edged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, viz.-our
ship, making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those Islands and the African shore, was su rised, in the
grey of the mowing, by a. Turkish rover, of Sallee, w no gave chase
to us, with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainl come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship raving
twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quart-er, instead of athwart our stem, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured m a broadside
upon him, winch made him sheer off again, after returninfirour fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two hu ed men
whom he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all
our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we u
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks. who immediately
fell to cutting and haekiug the. sai s and rigging. We plied them
with small shot, halt-pikes, powder-chests, and suedi like, aml cl 'ared
our decks of them twice. However. to eut short. this melancholy
>ai't of our story, our ship being disabled, mul three of our men
lzilled, and eight wounded. we. were obliged to yield. and were
earried all prisoners into Salli-e. a port belon in';y to the Moors.

The usage. 1 had there was not so dretut'ul as at first I appre-
hended; nor was l earried up the country to the emperor's eonrt.
as the rest of our men were. but was kept by the eaptnin ot' the
rore- as his proper prize and made. his slave, being young and ninihle,
and lit for his business. At this surpri. '11}; change of my eiremn.
stances, from a merehnnt to a miseral) e stare. l was perfeetly over-
whelmed ; and now looked hack a ton mv father's prophet ie discourse
to me, that 1 should he miserable, and have none to relieve me;
which 1 thought was now so cll'eetamllv brought to pass, that. it eould
not. be worse; that now the hand of lleaven had orertuken me, and
l was undone. without redemption, lint. alas! this was but a taste
of the misery 1 was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story.

As my new patron. or master, had taken me home to his house,
so l was in hopes he would take me with him when he went. to sea
a tin, believing that it would, sortie time or other, he his fate to he
taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man ot' war, and that then I
should he set at lilierty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away. for when he went. to sea he left me. on shore to look after his
little garden. and do the eonunou drudgery of slaves about his house:
and when he enme home. again from his eruise, he ordered me to lie
in the eahin. to look after the ship.

llero l meditatetl nothing but, my eseape, and what. method l
might take. to etl'eet. it, hut. found no way that. had the. least proha-
hility in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it. rational;
for l had nohody to eonnnuni 'ate it to that would embark with me;
no fellow-slave, no Englishman. Irishman, or Seotehmnu there but
myselt; so that. for two years, though 1 often pleased myself with
the. imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect oi
putting it. in practiee.

.-\t'ter about two rears. an odd circumstance. presented itself,
whieh put the old thought of making some. attempt. for my libert
again into my head. My patron lying at home longer than usuai,
without fitting: out his ship. which, as I h-ard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once. or twice a week. sometimes ot'tener
it" the. weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and go out into
the. road a lishing ; and as h' always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the host, we made him very merry, and l proved
.ry dexterons in catching fish, insomnch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the
Bloresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
mornin , a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league
from tie shore, we lost sight of it; and rowinw, we knew not
whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and all the next night,
and when the morningr came, we found we had pulled off to sea,

 

instead of pulling in for the shore, and that We were at least two
leagues from the shore; however, we got Well in again, though with
a great deal of lahonr, and some danger, for the wind began to blow
nutty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very
Hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long-
hoat of our English shi he had taken, he resolved he would not go
a fishing any more wit out a complies and some revision; so e
ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an nglish slave, to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the longboat, like
that of a barge, with a lace to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, an room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we called a lcg-of-mutton
sail, and the boom jibbed over the to ) of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and had in it room for liim to lie, with a slave or two,
and a table to eat. on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor as he thought (it to drink, and particularly his bread,
rice. and cofl'ce.

We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I was
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happened that he had appointed to {:0 out in this boat, either
for leasure or for fish, nith two or three Moors of some distinction
in t at place, and for whom he had provided cxtraordinarilv, and
had therefore sent on board the bout, overnight, 2). large: store of
provisions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three
i'nsees, with gender and shot, which were on board his ship. for that
they designe some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

1 got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next. morning:
with the boat washed clean, her ensitrn and pendants out1 and every-
thing to accommodate his guests: when, by and by, my patron came

 

on board alone, and told me his guests had put oit' going, 11 on some
business that fell out, and ordered me, with a man an boy, as
usual, to go outwith the boat, and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to su at his house; and commanded, that as soon
as I had got some (351, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself,
not for a fishing business, but for avoyage; though I knew not,
neither did I so much us consider, whither I should steer; for any
where, to get out of that place, was my way,

My first contriranee was to make a pretence to speak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we
must not presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true ; so he brought. a large basket of rush or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had heen there before
.or our master. 1 conveyed also a eat lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a Kindred-weight, with a parcel of
twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also ;
his name was Ishmael, whom they call Muley, or Moley; so I called to'
him; " Moley," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat, can
you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
alcamies (fowls like our curlewa) for ourselves,and I know he keeps the
gunner's stores in the ship."---" Yes," says he, " I will bring some ;"
and accordingly he brought a great leathern pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot,
that had five or six. pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat; at the same time 1 found some powder of my master's in
the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was ahnost empty, curing what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every t ling needful, we sailed out of port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port, when we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from NN. E., which was contrary to m desire ; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have m e the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
\Htrc, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for When I
and fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor: "This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of the boat, set the sails ; and PS151
had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and then brou ht
to, as. if 1 would fish. Then giving the boy the helm, I stepped or-
u'ard to where the Moor was, and I took him bv surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clean overboard into the sea.
lie rose immediately, for he swam like a. cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, and told me he would go all the world over
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowhng-pieces,
I presented it at him, and told him, 1 had done him no hurt, and
if he would be quiet, I would do him none. " But," said I, " you
swim well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; malts the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I are
resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore ; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.16 museums or nonmsos censor.

I could hate been content to have taken this Moor with me and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was gone, 1 turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me 1 will make you
a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me
(that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's heard), I must throw you
into the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and

go all over the world with me.
\

31:". . f _\'_l

,oA'iii'ki y \

"a,

    

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to Windward, that
they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the
truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, on
more merciless savages of human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the east, that I might keep in with the shore ; and having a
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail,
that I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon,
when I made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and

fifty miles south of Sallec, quite beyond the Emperor of Moroceo'sADVENTURES OI nosrxsos EUR30.03. 17

domiiiions, or indeed of any other king thereahout; for we saw no
eo e.

p et such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful
apprehensions I had 0 falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or 0 on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till i
hat? sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, the also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, and: came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river;
I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring,
and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was read to die with fear, and be ed of me not to go on
shore till day. " ell, Xury," said I, "then will not; but it may be
we snall see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
" Then we may give them the shoot-nun," says Xury, laughing, " make
them run awa . ' Such English fury spoke by conversing men
as slaves. owever, I was glad to see the be so cheerful, and
gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bott es to cheer him up.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our
little anchor, and lay still all night ; I say still, for we slept none ; for in
two or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowing and washing themselves, for the leasure of cooling
themselves; an they made such howlings and ye ' gs, that I never
indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frightened when we heard one of these creatures
swimming towards our boat; and we could hear by his blowing that
he was a monstrous, huge and furious beast. Poor Zury cried to me
to wei h the anchor and row away. " No," says I, " Xury, we can slip
our ca 1e with a buoy to it, and go of to sea; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature within two
oars' length, which sur rised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, an taking up my gun, fired at bun ; upon
which he immediately turns about, and swam to the shore
again.

It is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries
anu howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher within the country, upon the none or re 011; of the on; a
thing, I believe, these creatures had never h before. ' con-
vinced me there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast; and how to venture on shorein the day, was another questior
too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had
been as bad as to have fallen into the paws oi" honsand tigers; at
least, we were equally apprehensive of the danger 0t 1t.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not a pint left. in the boat; when and
where to get it was the point. Xurgr said, 11 I would let him go on
shore with one of the jars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go; why I should
not go, and he stay in the boat. The bov answered with so much

 

attraction, that he made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go away.--" Well, Xury," said I, " we
will both go ; and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall
eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a iece of rust; bread to ear, and
a dram out of our patron's case of bott es, which I mentioned before;
and we hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded to shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but. the boy, seeing a low
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and, by and by,
i saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I therefore ran
forwards to help him ; but when I came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had
shot, like a hare, but (lifl'erent in colour and longer legs; however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the great

joy that oor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, an seen no wild mans.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries. and the Cape de Verd Islands also,
lay not far from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation, to find what latitude we were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude the were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand 0 to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easilv found some of these islands. But
m hope was that if I stood at] '- this coast till I came to the art
or ere the English traded, I shou (I find some of their vessels ugon
their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.

Byl the best of my calculation, the place where I now was, must
be t at country which, lyi between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, 'es waste, and uninhabited, except by
wild boasts; the Negroes havi or abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors, an the M ore not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenncss; nd, indeed both forsakin,
it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leo ards, an
other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the 'Iocrs use
it for their hunting only, where the go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and, in ced for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but howliugs and roaring of
wild beasts by night.

Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pieo of
Tcnerifl'c, being the top of the mountain 'l'enerifi'e, in the Canaries,
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary \vinds ; the
sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first design, and keep along the shore.

After this stop We made on to the southward continually, for ten
or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very much, and going no oftener into shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this, was to make the
river Gambia. or Senegal ; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape
do Void, where l was in hopes to meet some European ship; and if
I did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands or erish among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, w rich sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or
to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and in a word
I out the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I
must meet some ship, or perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
Ibegan to see t at the land was inhabited; and in two or three
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to
look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me, " No go, no go." How-
ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and i
found they ran along the shore b me a good way. I observed
they had no wca ens in their han -, except one, who had :1 Ion
slender stick, w rich Xury said was a lance, and that they woul
throw them a great way With good aim; so I kept at a distance, but
talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and particularly made
signs for something to eat. They beckoned to me to step my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat ; upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country ; and
in less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as the produce of their
country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other was; how.
ever, we were willing to accept it. But how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I was not tor venturing on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully; for while we were lyin by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other as we took it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange; but I believe it Was the latter, because, in the first place,
these ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night; and, in the
second place we found the people terribly frightened, especially the
women. The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
come for their diversion; at last, One of them began to come nearer
our boat than I at first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot him directly in the head; immediately he sunk down into the
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
struggling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to
the shore ; but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creao
taxes, at the noise and tire of 'my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror;
but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and
that I made signs for them to come to the shore, they took heart
and came to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I
found him by his blood staining the water; and by the hel of a
rope, which 1 slung round him, and gave the Negroes to haul, the
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a. most curious Ice and,
spotted, and fine to an admirable de ree; and the Negroes he (I up
their hands with admiration, to thin what it was I had killed him
wit I.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains
from whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what
it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this

 

creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him;
and though they had no knife, yet With a sharpened piece of wood,
they took off his skin as readily, and much more readil , than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some 0 the flesh,
which I declined, makin as if I would ive it them, but made
signs for the skin, which t ey gave me very reely, and brought me a
great deal more of their rovisions, which, though I did not under~
stand, yet I accepted. then made signs to them for some water,
and held out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I
suppose, in the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and I sentt
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three. '
I was now furnished with roots and com, such as it was,nnd
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes. I made forward for eleven
days more, without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land
run a great lenrrth into the sc' , at about the distance of four
or live leagues before me; and the sea beinn' ver calm, I kept. a
large offing, to make this point. At length, douh 'ng the paint, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the other
side, to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Gate do Vet-d, and those the islands, culled, from
thence, Cape de Yer Islands. However, they were at a great dis-
tance, and I could not well tell what I Lad best to do; for if I
should be taken with a gale of wind, I might reach neither,

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin
and set me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the
any cried out, " Master, master, a shi with a sail!" and the foolish
boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
gotten far enough out. of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin.
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, Viz. that
it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way; but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, they
supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost; so they shortened
sail; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

' 'hcy asked me what I was in Port-1: nose, and in Spanish, and in
French; but I understood none of 1. em; but, at last, a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallee; they then bade me come on board, am
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible 'oy to me, which any one will believe, that
l was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable, and
almost hopeless condition as I was in; and 1 immediately offered all
I had to the captain of the shi , as a. return for my deliverance; but

_ he. generously told me, he won d take nothino from me, but that all
I had should be delivered safe to me, when came to the Brazils.
I will carry you thither in charity, and these things will rzelp to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.
HE SETTLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A. manna--mans ANOTHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SHIPWRECKED.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance, to a tittle: for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer
to touch anything I had: then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
might have them, even so much as my three earthen jars.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the Bay
do Todos los Santos, or all Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two da 3
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserab e
of all conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I was new
to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember: he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the shi to
be punctually dehvercd to me; and what I was willing to se he
bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lum of bees-wax,--for I had made candles of the rest ;
m a word, I ma e about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of
all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call
it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of
planting and of making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
.ived, and how tney got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could t a
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them: on eav-
ouring, inthe meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured as m money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and sett ement; such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English

arents, whose name was Wens, and in much such circumstances as

was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land began to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes the next year.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measure for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained there, in providing
his landing, and pro aring for his voyage, near three months; when
telling him what litt e stock I had et behind me in London, he
gave me this friendl and sincere advice: " Senhor Inglez," says he
(for so he always c ed me,) " if you will give me letters, and a pro-
euration here in form to me, with orders to the erson who had your
money in London, to send our effects to his on, to such persons
as I shall direct, and in suc goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God Willing, at m return: but
srncc human affairs are all subject to changes an disasters, 1
would have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, on may order the rest the same way ;
and, if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply." This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best course I
could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I left my money, and a. procuration to the Portuguese
ca tain, as he desired me.

wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in E lish

oods, such as the captain had written for, sent them direct y tc
him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils: I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that i
might say, I had more than four timest e value of my first cargo
and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I ,ean in the
advancement of my plantation;f0r the first thing I did, I bou ht
me a Negro slave, and a European servant also; I mean anot ier
besides one whom the captain brought me from Lisbon.

Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only
learned the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merv
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had frequently given them an account of In
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading mm
the. Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for
I'rifles----such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like--not only gold dust, Guinea grains, clephants' teeth,
850., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but es )ecially to that )art which related to the buyino
Negroes ; whie was a trade, at t at time, not only not far entered
into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the msieulos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed from
Elbe public; so that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively

6111'.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of them came to me the next mornin , and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I. h disconrsed with them of the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,

C26 wvsn'rme or nonrsson cnoson.

after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitencd for nothing so much as servants; that as
it was a. trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a. word, the
question was, whether I would go as their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part; upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes, without pro-
viding any part of the stock.

I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
utter, than I could restrain my first rambling designs. In a word, I
told them I would go with all my heart, if they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my a sence, and would dispose of it as I
should direct, if I miscarried. This thcy all engaged to do, and on.
tered into writings or covenants to do so, in case of my death;
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my
universal heir; but obhging him to dis me of my effects as 1 had
directed in my will; one-half of the pro uce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.

The ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things
done ils by agreement, by partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day
ei ht years that I went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the
re cl to their authority, and th fool to my own interest.

We passed the Linc in abou twelve days' time, and were, by our
last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, or hurriczmc, took us quite out of our
knowledge; it began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled in the north-east; from whence it blew in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry u.
whithersoever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
lsiwzillowcd up ; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their

ves.

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the maste.
made an observation as well as he could. He found that he had got
upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the Oronoco, commonly called the
Great Ri\'er; and as the ship was leaky and very much disabled he
was for going back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that ; and looking over the charts of the
sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Carribee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbe
does; which by keeping ofi' to sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or
gulf of Mexico, we might easily erl'orm, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could, not possibly make our voyage to
the coast of Africa without some assistance, bath to our ship and
ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered awa N. W.

by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where hoped
fer relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for in the
latitude of twelve degrees eighteen minutes a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity westward,
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we stood a greater chance
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own
country.
In t is distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men
early in the mornin , cried out, " Land!" and we had no sooner run out
of the cabin to 100 out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world
we were, than the ship struck 11 On a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the seagiroke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.

The ship navin thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast
for us to expect no): getting off, we were in a dreadful conditiOn
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving out lives as
well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the storm,
but she was first staved by dashin against the ship's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, andg either sunk, or was driven oil' to
sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her oil' into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
plieeei every minute, and some told us she was actually broken
21. 1'63. '.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
ship's side; and getting all into her, we let go, and committed our-
selves. being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea;
for thoneh the storm was abated considerably, et the sea went
dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be we called den wild
zee, as the Dutch call the Sea in a storm.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling asteri-
of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it
took us with such fury, that it overeat the boat at once; and separa-
ting us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us tam.-
hardly to say, " O God!" for we were all swallowed up in a
moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
l sunk into the water ; for though I swam very well, yet Icould not
deliver myself from the waves So as to draw my breath, till that
wave llang driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having s'icnt itself, went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but half dead with the water 1 took in. 1 had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the main land than l expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another ware should return and take me up again; but. I soon found
it was impossible to avoid it ; for 1 saw the sea come after me as
l-f h as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which l had no
115 or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myselfnpon the water, if I could ; and so, by swim-
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myselftowards the shore, if
possrble ; my greatest concern now being, that thr- ware, as it would
carry inc 3 great way towards the shore when it cazne on, might not
carrr me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or
thirty foot drop in its own body ; and I could feel myself carried
with 21 might}.- force and swiftnosa towards the shore, a very great
way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward
with all my might l was ready to burst with holding my breath,
when, as l felt. myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief, l found
my head and hands shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it. was not two seconds of time that 1 could keep myself 50,
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. l was
covered again with water a good while, but not so lung but. I held it
out. ; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt ground
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover reath,
and till the water went from me, and then took to my heels, and ran
with what strength I had farther towards tyne shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the- sca, which came pouri
in after me again ; and twice more I was lifted n n by the waves 33%
carried forwards as before, the shore being,r very flat.

The last time of these. two had well ni h been fatal to me ; for the
sea, having hurried me along, as before, ended me, or rather dashed
me, against a piece- of rock, and that. with such force, that it left me
senseless, and indeed hel less, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow, taking my side and rcast, beat the breath, as it were, uite
out of my body ; and had it returned again immediately, I must ave
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves; and, seeing I should again he covered with the
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of rock, and so to hold my
breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves were
not so high as :hc 3355!, being nearer land, 1 lit-h: my hold till theADVENTURES 0!' 303138011 CEUSOE. 99

wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run I took,
I got to the main land! where, to In great comfort, I clumbered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me own upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

1 was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and
thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was,
some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I believe it is im-
possible to express, to the lite, what the eestasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the grave ; and

 

I did not wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malcfaetor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and inst going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him--I say, I do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let blood that very
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my whole
being, as I may say, wra pod up in the contemplation of my deliver-
ance; making a thousan gestures and motions, which I cannot des-
cribe; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself ; for, as for them, I
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded Vessel--when the breach and froth
of the sea being so big 1 could hardly see it, it lay so far off--and
" considered, Lord ! how was it possible I could get on shore?"

 

[began to look around me to see what kind of a place 1 was
in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did I see any pros eet before me, but that
of polishing with hunger, or being dcvoure by wild beasts; and that
which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against an other creatures that might desire to kill me for
theirs. lit a wet , I had nothing about me but a knife, 2!. tobacco-
Eipe, and a little tobacco. Night coming upon inc, I began, with a

euvyhezu't, to consider what. would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country.

All the remedy that oll'cred to my thoughts, was, to get up into a
thick bushy tree. I walked about a fin-long from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water; which 1 did, to my great joy ; and
having drunk, and ut a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent.
hunger, I went to t- te tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to

lace myself so as that, if 1 should fall asleep, I might not fall; and

aving cut me a stick, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and
ha. ' been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and slept as com-
fortab e as, I believe, few could have done in my condition; and
found myself much refreshed.
ROBINSON FINDS HIMSELF IN A DBSOLA'i'E ISLAND--PROCKRES A

STOCK OF ARTICLES FROM: THE WRECK--CONSTR'L'CTS HIS
IIABITATION.

WHEN I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it.
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
shi seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that
at east I might save some necessary things for my use.

W hen I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat; which lay, as
the wind and sea. had tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles
on my right hand. I walked as far as I eculd upon the shore to
have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon, Ifound the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the shi :
and here I found a fresh renewing of in grief ; for I saw evident 3',
that if we had kept. on board, we had een all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and had not been so miserable as to he
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was little relief
in that, I resolved, it possible, to {get to the ship: so I pulled oil
my clothes, for the weather was tot to extremity, and took the
water: but when I came to the ship, my dillieull-y was still greater
to know how to get on board : for as she lay aground, and high out
of the water, there was nothing in my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered i did not. see at first, hang down by the fore-
chains so low, as that. with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by
the hel of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship. Here i
found t rat the ship was bilged, and had a great deal of water in her
hold ; but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her ruarter was free, and
all that was in that part was dry ; for you may u: sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and,
first, I found that. all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
by the water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
hread'romn, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went
about other things, for I had no time to lose. 1 also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which i
had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would he very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to he had,
and this extren'tity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare topmost or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as
many overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every on?
with a rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done,
I went down the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went
to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare to mast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great den of labour
and pains. But the hope of l'nniishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to hear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what IADVEfl'I'UEES 0! ROBIN"! CRUBOE. , 33

laid upon it from the surf of the see; but I was not long considering
this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and' emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with provisions, viz. bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried oats' flesh (which we
lived much ")011), and a little remainder of 'uropean corn, which
had been laid y for some fowls which we had brought to sea. with
us, but the fowls were Killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belon ' g to our ski per, in which were
some cordial waters; and, in al , five or six ons of rack. These
1 stowed by themselves, there bei no need to put them into the
chests, nor any room for them. Vhile I was do' this, I found
the tide began to flow, though vcr,~ calm; and I he the mortifica-
tion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore,
upon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which were only
linen, and open-knead, I swam on board in them, and my stockings.
However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore: and it was after long searching that 1 found the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been
at that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. 'l'here we:e
two very good fowling-pieces in the rest cabin, and two pistols;
these I secured first, with some pow er-horns and a small bag of
snot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. These two I got to my raft, With
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freightedaand
human to think how 1 should get to shore with them, havmg neither
sniI, oar, nor rudder; and the least capi'ul of wind would have over.
set all my navigation. 1 hoped to find some creek or river which 1
might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo. ..

As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me a httle
opening of the land, and I found a strontv current of theutide set
into it; so I guided my raft, as well as could, to get into the
middle of the stream. But here I had like to have sufl'ercd a second
shipwreck, which, if 1 had, I think it verily would have broken my
heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end of it upon a shoal, and, not being aground at the other end,
it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped 03' towards the
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost,
by sctt' my back against the chests, to keep them in their places,
but eoul not thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
l stir from the posture l was in, but holding up the chests with all
my might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water bro "ht me a little more upon a level; and
a little after, the water siill rising, my raft floated again, and I
thrust her off with the ear I had into the channel, and then driving
up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide runninn- up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for was
not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping, in time, to
see some shi at sea, and theretore resolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little core on the right shore of the creek, to
which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last
got so near, as that, reaching "round With my our, I could thrust
her directly in; but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into
the sea again; for that shore lyiu pretty steep, that is to say,
sloping, there was no place to land, ut where one end of my float,
if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower, as
before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could do
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my
oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as 1 found water enough, for my raft drew
about afoot of water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars
into the ground, one on one side, near one en , and one on the other
side, near the other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was I yet knew not; whether
on the continent, or on an island; whether inhabited, or not in-
habited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a
ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowlinv-pieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had, with
great labour and difficulty, got up to the top, I saw my fate, to my
great affliction, viz. that I was in an island, environed in every way
with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a
great way of. and two small islands. less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.ADVENTURE! or aoanmnv cannon. 35

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I are
good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom,
owever, I saw none; at I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, w an I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a crest wood. I
believe it was the first (run that had been fired there since the
creation of the world: I had no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many
sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying, every one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to he a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more
than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

I now be an to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the s ip, which would be use ul to me, and particularly some
of the rioging and sails, and such other things as mi ht come to
land; and I resolved to make another voyage on boar the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get. Then
I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should
take back the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my but; having nothing on but a
chequered shirt, 3 pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
feet.

I ot on board the ship as before, and pre arcd a second raft;
and iiaving had experience of the first, I neit or made this so un-
wieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things
very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two
or three bags of nails and s ikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of lmtchcts; and, above al , that most useful thin called a grind-
stone. All these I secured together, with several t i as belonging
to the nner; particularly, two or three iron crows, an two barrels
of mus et bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
tome small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy, I could
not heist it up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a s re fore-top-
sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this. loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort. .

Havin got my second cargo m-shork--though I was fam to open
the barre s of powder, and bring them b parcels, for they were too
heavy, being large oasks--I went to wet to make a little tent, with
the sails, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into
this "tent I broufrht every thing that I knew would spoil either with,
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, lining my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I. went to bed for the
first time, and slept very quiet 13' all night, for I was ver ' wear and
heavy; for the night before T had slept little, and had la oure very
hard all clay, as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get
them on shore.

 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid
up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for While
the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I could; so every day, at low water, I went
on board, and brought away something or other: but partieularlv
the third time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all
the sails first and last; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were no more
useful to be sails, but as mere canvass only.

But that which comforted me still more was, that, last of all, after
I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had
nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddli
with; I say, after all this, I found a. great hogsbead of bread, an
three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of line flour; this was surprising to me, because I had given over
expecting any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the
water. 1 soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it
up, purer-l by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in
a word, 1 got all this sate on shore also.

The next day I made another voyage, and now having plundered
the ship of what was portable and lit to hand out, I began with the
cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces such as 1 could move,
I got two cables and a hawscr on shore, with all the iron work I "
could get; and having cut down the spritsail-yard. and the mizen-
yard, and cvcrythin I could, to make a. large raft, I loaded it with
all those heavy goo s, and came away: but my good luck b an now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overla en, that
after Iwzns entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
orcrset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which 1
ex ccted would have been of great use to me: however, when the
ti c was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to go for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me ver much. After this I went
ever day on board, and brought away w at I could get.

Iliad been new thirteen daysashorc, and had been eleven times
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one

air of hands could well be supposed ca able to bring; though I
believe verily, had the calm weather hel , I should have brought
away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing the twelfth time,
to go on board, I tound the wind began to rise: however, at low
watrr, I went on board; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so efl'eetually, as that nothing could be found, yet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one air of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and) forks; in another I found about thirty-six ounds
in mono , some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces 0 eight,
some go and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money; " 0 drug l" I ex-
claimed, " what art then good for? Thou art not worth to me, no,
not the taking of the ground; one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou '
Art, and go to the bottom, as o creature whose life is not worth
saving." However, upon nccond thoughts, I took it away; and

wrapping all this in a piece of canvass, begun to think of making
another raft: ; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
afresh gale from the shore. it presently occurred to me, that It
was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind elf shore ; and
that it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise i mic-ht not he able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly
I let myself (lbwu into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, portly with the Weight of the things 1 had about
me, and partly the roughuess of the water; for the wind rese very
hastily, and before it wus quite high water it blew a storm.

 

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more ship was to be
seen ! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz., that l had lost no time, nor abated no
diligence, to get everything out of her, that could be useful to me,
and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring,r
away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wreck; as,
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but these things were
of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against either savages, it' any should appear, or wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the method how to
do this, and what kind of dwelling to melee, whether I should make
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, par-
ticularly because it. was noon :1 low. moorish ground, near the sea,ADI serous or nonmsox entrees. so

and 1 believed it vs uld not be wholesome; and more nsrticulerly
because there was )1) fresh water near it: so I resolved to find I
more healthy and con venient spot of ground.

I consulted sevens things in my situation, which I found would
be pro er for me; the t, air and fresh water, I just new mentioned:
sccon y, shelter fron, the heat of the sun: thirdly, security from
ravenous creatures, w nether men or beasts: fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in si ht, I might not lose any advan-
tage for my delivered cc, of which was not willing to banish all my
ex eetation yet.

n search for 8 ice proper for this, I found a little lain on the
side of a rising hilIl', whose l'ront towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the
top. On the side of this rock, there was a hollow place, worn a
little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not
really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.

On the fist of the reen, 'ust before this hollow place, I resolved
to pitch my tent. ' 'his sin was not above one hundred ards
broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my cor;
and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down into the
low ground by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill;
so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a
W. and by S. sun or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near
the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
theiroek, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
en mg.

ln'this half-circle I itched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till) they stood very firm like piles, the biggest
end bei 0 out of the ground, about five feet and a half, and
sharpch on the top. The two rows did not stand above six inches
from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to
a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast
could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, and drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in,l
lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, '
as I thought, from all the world, and consequently sle t secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done; t ough, as it
a peered afterwards, there was no nerd of all this caution. against
the monies that I apprehended danger from.SliCTlt'lN VI.

CARRIHS ALL "IS lllt'lil-'s'. PROVISIONS, E'N'. INTO lliS llABlTATlUN--
l'lil'TARIXI-ZSS 01" SHlJTl'lH-I "PONSOLATORY Illil-'l.l".("l'll)t\'$.

lxro this fence. or fortress. with infinite lathonr, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions. ammunition, and stores. of which you have
the. account above: and 1 made :1 large tent. which, to preserve me
from the ruins. that in one tart. ot' the. year are very riolent there, I
made douhle, rir... one smnl er tent within. and one larger tent. above
it. and covered the uppermost with a large tnrpattlin. which 1 had
saved tuneup: the sails.

And !ton' l lay no more for a while in the bed which 1 had brought
on shore. lmt in a hammock. which was indeed a very good one, and
belonged to the mate of the. shi 1.

Into this tent 1 brought ill my provisions. and everything that.
would spoil by the wet; and having: thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entrance, which till now I had left Open, and so passed
and repassed. as 1 said. hr :1 short ladder.

When I had done this I began to work my way into the rock. and
bringing all the. earth and stones that I dug down out through my
I" m. llztid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
than it raised the ground within about. a foot and a half; and thus I

inde me. a euro, just behind my tent, which served me like a. cellar
to my house. It cost. me much labour and many days, before allaomusou onuson. 4|

these things were brought to perfection; and therefore, I must a
buck to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. it
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up of my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dnrk cloud,osudden flush of lightning hap ened,
and after that, a grout clap of thunder, as is naturally the c 'cct of
it. I was not so much surprised with the lightning as I was with
a thou ht which darted into my mind as swift as the ' htning
itself: my rowderl My very heart sunk within me when I t ought,
that at one b ust all my powder might be destro ed; on which not
my defence only, but the providing me food, as thought, entirely
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder taken fire, I should never have known who
had hurt me.

Such Impressions did this make upon me, that alter the storm was
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
applied myself to make ba 5 and boxes to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and afiittle in a parcel, in hope that whatever
might come, it might not all take fire at once; and to keep it so
apart, that it should not he pOSSiblc to make one art lire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I trink my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
nad been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed
it in my new cave, which, In my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the
rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
mi ht come to it, marking vc carefully where I laid it.

n the interval of time whi c this was doinfi, I went out at least
once every day with my gun. One day I ki ed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me
heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her,
till 1 came and took her up; and not only so, but. when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it u
tame; but it would not eat; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it
myself. These two supplied me with. flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly, and preserved my provrslons (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could.

And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life, such erhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it iiiom its be inning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account, the 0th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; when
the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
my head : for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude
of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the line.

D
ROBISSOSJS MODE 0? RECKONIXG TIME--DIFFICUL'I'IES ARISING FROM
WANT 0F TOOLS--"Ii ARKANGES HIS HABITATIUN.

AFTER I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose. my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from the
working days: hut, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife into a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, [ set
it up on the shore Where I first landed, via, "I came on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of this square
post I out every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch
was as long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long arrain as that long one -. and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
monthly; and yearly reckoning ol' time.

But it happened, that among the man)r things which 1 brought out
of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found sometime after, in rummaging the chests :
as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in the captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books
of navigatim ; all of which I huddled together, Whether I might
want them or no: also I found three very good Bibles, which came to
me in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three
poplsh prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, 01' whose eminent history I ma have occasion to say some-
thing, in its place; for I carried both t e cats with me; and as for
the dog he jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vunl. to me for many years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me, I only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pens, ink, and pa er, and I husbanded them to thi-
utmost; and I shall show that wrilc my ink lasted, I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not;'for I could not
make an ink by an means that I could devise.

And t is put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand-
ing all that 1 had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one; as also a spade, ickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, andp thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much difiicult .

'l'his want of tools madye every work [did go on heavily: and it
was nearly a whole year before I had entirely finished in little pale.
or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, in ich were as
heavy as 1 could well lift, were a. long time in cutting and preparing
in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bri a? home one of those posts,
and a third in drivi it into the grougdl; or which purpose, I got a
heavy peace of woo at first, but at last bethought me of one of the
iron crows; which, however, though I found it answer, made driving
these posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need 1 have been concerned at the tedionsness of anything I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor had I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food; which I did more or
less, every day. '

l have already described my habitation, which was a tent under
the side of a rock, surrounded with a stro <<r pale of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wallror I raised a kind of wall
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside: and- after
some time SI think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
loaning to t m rock, and thatched or covered it with bong-ha of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found,
at some times of the year, very violent.

I have already observed how I bro ht all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had mdldge behind me. But I must ob-
serve, too, that at first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no room to
turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work further
into the cmth; for it was a loose sand' rock, 11hich yielded easily to
the labour I hestoued upon it; an when I found I was pretty
safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the 1ight hand,

 

into the 1';o(k,a11d then tuining to the right again, workedquite
out, and m: 1111: me a door to come out in the outside of my pale 111
101' t. ilicat 1011.

This gave 11111 not only 1gre<s and regress, as it 11010, a back way
to my tent and lo my si111cl11111s1- but gave me mom to stow my
goods.

4.1111 now I began to apply 1111- sell. to make such necessary thinos as
I lound I most 11',a.11ted partic uh 1.'l1 a, chair and a table; for without

these I 11115 not able to enjoy the tow comto1ts I had 111 the world,

I could not mite, or cat, 01' do seveial things with so much pleasure,
11itho11t a table; so I wont to 11"o1k. And hereI must need ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of mathematics,
so that by stat 111" and squaring everything by rm and by making
the most rational judgment 01 things, evmy man may be, In time,
master of e1e11' mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my
life; and yet. in time by laboui, application, and contrivance I found
at last, that I 111111t1d nothing but I could have made, especially if I
h.1d had tools 1101112101, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; 111111501111: 111111 110 moxc tools 1hz1n an adzc and almtchct, which
Ferhaps more never made that 11 111' before, and that with infinite
abour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with my axe, till Il111d brought it to be as thin as a plank,
end then dub it smooth With my edze. It is true, b this method, 1
could make but one board of a whole tree; but this had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my
time or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
we as another.

I made me a table and a chair, in the first place; and this I did
out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the
shi . But when I wrnght out some boards, as above, I made large
she ves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work
on; and, in a. word, to separate every thing at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into
the wall of the rock, to hang my guns, and all things that would
hang up; so that had my cave been seen, it looked hke a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had every thin so read
at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see my goo s
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so
great.

And now it was that I begun to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for, indeed, at st, I was in too much hurry, and not
only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would, too, have been full of man dull things.

So e days after this, and after I had can on board the ship and
got. a that I could out of her, I could not forbeer tting up to the
to of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in opes of seeing a
sh) : then fancy that, at a vast distance, I spied a sail, please my.
sel with the hopes of it, end, after looking steadily, till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.

But having got over these thi in some measure, and having
settled my household stuff and ha itetion, made me a. table and a
chair, and all about me as handsome as I could, I began to keepnmy
journal: of which I shall here give on the copy (thou h in it w he
told all these mrticulars over again as long as it lsste ; for. having
no more ink, was forced to leave it oll'.
ROBIXSOX'S .11'11'n.\'11.-rrm1.1.111.x 01-1 ms POMESTTC FCOXMIY AND
C0.\'TI1I\'.1.\'C11.5--~SHO('K 01' .1): EARTHQUAKE.

T1115 JOURNAL.

31111121111311 30111, 1659.1,001 1111-5111: 11110. Robinson EUR11,1st0 beinrr
11111111111111111111 during 11 (11.11111 1111 5101111, in the offing, came 0115110111:
1111 11115 1115111111 1.111151111111111: 151:1111, 11111011 I called the Ismxn 011
1)] 5111111 all 11111. 11:31 01 the ship's co111pa11y being 11101111011, 11nd
111151111 111111051 dead.

011110111111 1.111 1111: 11101111111; I 311111 10 111v gmat surprise, the 31111
111111 1102111111 111111 the 1115111 111113111111 was driven on shore 11111 mum
nearer 1.1111 151111111. I hoped 11 11111. wind 1111111011, 1 mig 1: get. on
11011111, 111111 :11 some 10011 1.11111 novcwu 1115 011101 her 1'01 my rcliel'
I spent. 1:111:11 part of this (lav 111 per ilcxing myself on these things;
11111., at length. $001111: the ship almost (111131 1113111 1111011. the sand as
near as 1 111111111, 1111111111111 511111111111 l10ard.'ll1is (lay also it continued
raining, though with no wind 11.1, 1111.

From the 151: of October to 1111: 241.11 All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages 10 get all I could 0111; 01 the $1111};
which I brought on shore, over tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though wit some intervals of fair weazlur: but
it seems this was the run season.

OCT. 25. It rained night and all day, with some firsts of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind lowing
a little harder than before) and was no more to be seen, exec t the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this ay in

covaring and securing the goods which 1 had saved, that the rain
might not spou them.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my habitation, though some part of the time it rained ex-
ceedingly hard.

The 3lst, in the mornin , I went out into the island with my gun,
to see for some food, and 'scover the countr ' ; when I killed a she-
<<root, and her kid followed me home, which afterwards killed also,
Because it would not feed.

NOVEMBER 1. I set up in tent under a rock, and lay there for
the first night; making it as urge as I could, with stakes driven in
to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 4:. This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my uu, time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz.,
every morning I we ed out with my gun for two or three hears, if
it did not min; then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock; then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I
lay down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and then, in
the evening, to work again. The working part of this day and the
next was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but
a very sorry workman: though time an neeessit made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe t ey would any
one e se.

Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stoe
of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
be in den er.

Nov. 1 . This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the rock,
to make room for my further convenience. .

Nona. Three tlungs I wanted exceedingly for this work, vim, a
pickaxe, a shovel, and a. wheelbarrow, or basket: so I desisted from
my work and began to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for ickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper eno h, though heavy: but the next thing was a
shovel or spade ; t 's was so absolutely necessary, tt it, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind 0! one to
make I knew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree ol48 wvnnmnzs or nosrxson (meson.

that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the iron tree,
from its exceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought it home, too, wrlh difii-
("ally enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The cxeessn'e hardness
of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a lonrr while
upon this machine: for I worked it eil'ectnally by little and little,
into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly sha ed
like ours in England, only that the broad part having no iron 5 rod
upon it at the bottom, it would not last. me so long; however, it
served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long
in making.

 

N or. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my
makin these tools, when they were finished I went on; and working
every av, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods comrnodionsly.

DECEMBER 10. I began now to think my mm or vault finished;
when on a. sudden (it. seems l haul made it too large) a great. quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side; so much, that, in short,
it frightened me, and not without. reason too; for if I had been under
it, 1 should never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster,
Iliad a great deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose
earth to carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had
iihc ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come

own.

Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly; and got
two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each p'ost: this I finished the next da ; and
setting more posts up wit boards, in about a week more I find the
roof secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me for parti-
tions to part oll' my house.

Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that could he hung up ;
and now I began to be in some order within doors.

DEC. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order
my rictuzrls upon; but boards began to he very scarce with me; also
I made me another table.

DEC. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

 

JANUARY 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad enrly and late with
my n, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening,' mg
furt er into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the Is and,
I found there were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard
to come at; however, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog
to hunt them down. Accordingly, the next day, Iwent out With my
dog, and set him upon the goats: but I was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog: and he knew his danger too well, for he

would not come near them. _ . . .

J AN. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still Jealous of
my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very th1ck and
stron .

Diging this time, I made my reunds in the woods for gameevery
day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in
these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particnlarly, I
found a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but when they grew older, they flew all away; which, per-
haps, was, at first, for want of feeding them, for I had nothin to
give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got t reir
young ones, which were very good meat. In the middle of all my
labours it happened, that in rumnn <<ring my things, I found a. little
bag; which, as I hinted before, ha been filled with corn, for the
feeding of poultry; not for this voyage, but befOre, as I suppose,
when the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn
had been in the bag was all demured b the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust: and being willing to have the bag
for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divided
it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain now mentioned, that I threw
this stuff away; taking no notice of anything, and not so much as
remembering that I had thrown anything there: when, about a month
after, I saw some few stalks of somethm green shooting out of the
ground, which I fancied might be some p ant I had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve cars come out, which were perfect [green
barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English
barley.

I at. first thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support; and, not doubting that there Wm more in the place, I went
over all that part of the island where I had been before, searching in
every corner, and under ever rock, for more of it; but I could not
find any. At last it occurre to my thou hts, that I had shaken out
a bag of ehicken's-meat in that place, an then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common; though I ourrht to have been
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a providaence, as if it had
been miraculous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me,
that should order or appoint that ten or twelve. ains of corn should
remain uns oiled, when the rats had destro c all the rest, as if it
had been ropped from heaven; as also, not I should throw it
out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it anywhere else, at that time, it would have been burned up and
destroyed.

I carefullv saved the ears of this corn, you may '.e sure, in their
season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up every com,
I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not till theADVENTVEES 0! BOBIIIIOL- GRUOOI. 5]

fourth year that 1 could allow myself the least grain 01 this corn
to eat, and even then but sparing] , as 1 shall show afterwards in its
order; for 1 lost all that 1 sowe the first season, by not observing
the proper time; as f sowed just before the dr season, so that it
never came up at. all, at least not as it would rave done: of which
in its place.

Besxdes this barley, there were, as above, twent or thirty stalks
of rice, which I reserved with the same care; an whose use was
of the same kin , or to the same purpose, via, to make me bread,
or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without bakin ,
though I did that also after some time--But to return to my Jourmfi.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; contriving to get
into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

Avnu 16. I finished the ladder; so I Went u with the ladder
to the toy, and then pulled it up after me, and et it down in the
inside: this was a complete enclosure to me; for within 1 had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was
thus :---A.s 1 was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, 'ust at the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened by a s ock of an
earthquake!

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one dead
or stupified; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were; and tons a me from the stupified condition
I was in, filled me with horror, an I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods, and burying all at
once; this sunk my very soul within me a second tune.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
l began to take oour ; yet I had not heart enough to go over my
wall ' , for fear 0 being buried alive; but sat_strll upon the
groun greatly cast down and disconsolatc, not knowmg what to .ddeg'
All this while I had not the least serious rehgious thought; nothing
but the common " Lord, have mercy on me! " and when it was over
that went away too.

This set me thinking about what I had best do; conclud
ing, that if the island was sub'ect to earthquakes, there would be
no living for me in a cave, but must consrder of building me some
little but in an open place, which I might surround With a wall, as 1
had done here, and so make myself secure from Wild beasts or men;
for if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive.52 mvexrunns or ROBINSON onuson.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from the place
where it now stood, being just under the hanging recipiee oi the
hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, "'01 d certainly fall
uFon m tent. I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th
0 Apr' , in cont-firing where and how to remove my habitation. I
resolved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a wall
with piles and cables, &c. in a circle as before, and set. my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I was
till it was readv, and fit to remove to. This was the 2151;.

APRIL 22. The next morning I began to consider of means to put
this measure into execution; and .T was at a great loss abOut the

 

tools. 1 had three large axes, and abundance of hatchcts (for we
carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians); but with much
chOp ing and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches,
and ull: and though I had a grindstoue, I could nor turn it and
grind my tools too. This caused me as much thought as 3 states
man would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.

Arum. 2-3, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstone erforming very well.

{Run 30. Having perceived that my brea had been low a great
while, 1 now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit--
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
ROBINSON OBTAIKS MORE ARTICLES FROM. THE "BECK--
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.

MAY 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea side, the tide
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary,
and it looked like a cask; when I came to it I ound a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was eaked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay buried in the sand, was heaved up at least
six feet ; and the stern (which was broke to pieces, and parted from
the rest, by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummagi her)
was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side: and the san was
thrown so high on that srde next her stern, that I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out.

This wholly diverted my thouahts from the design of removing my
habitation; and 1 busied myse mightily, that day es eeiall , in
searching whether I could make any way mto the ship ; ut I and
nothing was to he expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship
was choked u with sand. However, as I had learned not to des air
of an thing, resolved to pull everything to pieces that I coul of
the shi , concluding that everything I could get from her would be
of some use or other to me.
MAY 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of abeam through,
which I thou ht held some of the upper part or quarter-deck to-
gether; and w ieu I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide comiugiu, I
was obliged to give over for that time.

Mar 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that l durst eat
of, till I was wear of my sport; when just goin to leave all, i
caught a young do phiu. 1 had made a long,r line. 0 some rope-yarn,
but I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much
as I cared to eat; all of which I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.

Mar 5 to 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour 1 loosened some things so much, with the crew,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from shore, nothing came to
land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshcad, which had some
Brazil pork in it. 1 continuum] this work every day to the 15th of
June, exec t the time necessary to get food; which I always
appointed, uring this part of my employment to be when the tide
was up, that I might. be ready when it was ebhed out; and by this
time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron work. enough to have
' built a good boat, if I had known how; and I also got, at several
pings, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet-
ca .

JUNE 16. Groimr down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise, or
turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was only to
my misfortune, not any deflect of the place or scarcity; for had I
happened to be on the other side of the island, I n'iight have had
hundreds of them every day, as 1 found afterwards ; but perhaps had
paid dear enough for them.

JUNE 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three-
score eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury
and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life; having had no llesh, but
at goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.

Just: 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thou ht at
this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; w ich I
\new was not usual in that latitude.

1.110s}: 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been
co .

JUNE 20. No rest- all nieht; violent pains in my head, and feverish.

Jun: 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help; prayed to God,
for the first. time since the storm oll' Hull; hut scarce knew what 1
said, or why, my the tits being all confused.

Jun}; 22. A little etter; but under dreadful apprehensions o!
sickness.

J m 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a violent
headache.
JUNE 24. Much better.

am 25. An agne very violent; the tit held me seven hours;
cold fit. and hot, With faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better; and having no rituals to eat, took my gun, but
found myself very weak; however, I killed a sheogoat, and with
much dilliculty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I
would lain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

JUNE 27. The aoue again so violently that I lay a-bed all day,
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so
weak, I had not the strength to stand up, or get myself any water
to drink. Prayed to God again, but was lightheaded; and when l
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look u on me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mere
upon me!" I suppose I id noth' 0 else for two or three hours; tifi
the lit wearing oli', Ifell asleep, an did not wake till far in the night.

When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, 1 was forced to lie till morning.

Iliad, alas! no divine knowledgle: what I had received by the
good instruction of my father wast en worn out, by an uninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had, in all
that time, one thought that so much as tended'either to looking
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, ha entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinki , wicked creature among our
common sailors, can be supposed to e; not having the least sense,
either of the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to him, in
deliveranees.

It is true, when I first wot on shore here, and found all m ship's
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was sur rised with a ind of
ecstacy, and some transports of soul, which, (1 the grace of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; ut it ended
where it be in amere common flight of joy, or, as I ma say,
beinv "lad was alive, without the least reflection u on the ' tin-
guished goodness of the hand which had preserve me, and had
singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why provi ence had been thus merciful to me; just the
same common sort of joy which seamen have, after they are t safe
ashore from a shipwreck; which the drown all in the next VI of

nnch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my
' e was like it, Even when I was, afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my eondition,-how 1 was cast of on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or
prospect of redemption, --as soon as I saw but a prospect of living,
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of
affliction wore oil', and I became to he very easy, applied mvsclk' to
the works proper for my preservation and sn iply, and was far'enouigh
from being afflicted :u. my condition, as it jut ginent From heaven, 1..-
as the hand of God against me; those were thong-his which very
seldom entered into my head. "

 

But now, when I hegnn to be sick, and a leisure View of the
miseries of death came in place. itself before me; when my spirits
began to sink under the burden of a strongr distemper, and nature
was exhausflcd wilii the vioiencc 01' the fever; Conscience, that had
slept so long, hogan to awake; and l reprouehed myseii' with my
past iife, in'whieh l hurl so evidently, by uncommon wickedness.
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon smokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive 21 manner.

" New," said I, aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass;
God's justice in overt: hen inc, and l have none to help or hear me.
1 rejected the x ice of l'roriilcncc, which had mercifully put me in a
station of life wherein l might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see i1. myself, nor learn from my parents [he hlessing
ofic. Ileft rhmn to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of if." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my
help, for I am in great. distress." This was the first raycr, if I may

eallit so, that Ihad made for many years. But return to my
Journal.
ms RECOVERY--111$ conrom' 1x Rewrxo THE scnxrrunes--
mules AN exconsrow INTO THE INTERIOR or THE ISLAND--
ronns nis "BOWER."

Jun: 23. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep Iliad
had, and the iii. being- entirely 01f, I got u , and considered now
was my time to get something to retres: and support myself
when 1 should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a. lar e
misc-boLLle with water, and set it u on my table, in reach of my be ;
and to take off the chill or aguisii disposition of the Water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of l'lllll into it, and mixed them together.
Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but could eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sud and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.

Now,~as the Apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take
no physio but their tobacco for almost all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which, to this time, I had not found leisure or so much as
inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of

i:
1.110 tobacco 1 11110.11 1101.215 10 1111' 11010101101, 1101' 1111011101 .1. "'21:!
g00111'01'11 01'1101.:l1111. 1 111111 51:11 .11 0\i 111'1111011'. ' \1'i111 i1, 215 if 1'.
11 .1< 1'1:sol\"0d 111511011111 1111-11110. 11.11' or 111-1101'. I 1 .1111111 21 21111'1' 111
21 10211' 211111 011111111 ii in 1111' 111011111: \1',l11011 111210011. 211. fi1's., 211111051
3111111111111 1111 11121111; the tobacco 1111110- 141101: and 211011 ,211'111311011
21< 1 1121111101 1101111 1111101111<111 10.111111 I 101.111 <11mc 2-1111 51-'01111-(1 it
2111 110111'01' 1.111. in 501110 rum. 211111 105011111 1.11 121111: 21 111151: 01' i1. "'1: H111
I 1211' 11011211 211111 lastly, 1 11111111 some 11111111 21 p 2111 01 0112115, 211111 110111
1111- 111150 close over 1.111: 51110110 01' i1. 215 long 215 1 could 1101111, 2121
11'011 101' 1110 11001, M 2111111151 111r <111101'.111011111 1110 1111011211 011.1115
operation, I 1.11011 11 1 the Bible. 211111 began to rc211l:l1111. 1111' 1102111 was
too much 11i51u1'11e by the 101121000 10 110211 reading at l1:'1.<1:.11 111211
1111121.; 0nl_\',l1211'111g 011011011 1110 110011 021511211111, 1.111: first words 1.11211
occurred to 1111'. ""010 these: " 12111 011 me in the d211 01' 1111111110, 21nd
1 11111 11011101 11101:, and 111011 shalt glorify n10." '1'11050 11"111113 11'121'0
very r1111 10 1111' case; and made some impression 11111111 my 1111111141115
:11 the 111110 of1'0:1di11fr 1110111, 111011011 1101. s11 muc 11 223 they did 21l"101-
wards , 101', 215 101' 1101111.; 1/r!.1'2:err~rl 1111: 1120111 112111 110 50111111, 215 1 111.21
521131111110; 11111. 11111111 "as so 1,11111010 so hupossihlc 111 111170111110-
11111<1ou ol' Ll1i11gs,1liat.,as 1110 01111111011 01' 15121111 52111.1 1111011 111031
11010 111011115011 110511 1.0 1'11 "(.2111 (.1011 spr1'2111 21 1211111: 111 1110 11112111-
noss?" so 1 110112111 10 say, "' C2111 1:11:11 God hin1sell'1l1h111' 1110 from:
this 1112100?" A1111 21s 11. was 1101.. 101' 11121113: 102115 111211. 21111 hopes
21111111211011. 11115 111012111011 101 1111011 .11111111 1111'11111111;111<:. ' 1121., 111111'1-1'1'1',
1111' 11111115 11111110 21 g'"1 :11. in .111'1's.<i1111 11111111 1111:, 211111 1 111115011 upon
1110111 \'111'1' 01111.11 11 111111' 1' 5111' 12110: 211111 1111: 11111211200 112111, 215 1 <21i11
11117.01] 1111 111" 2111 so 12111011 111211 1.111'1111111 1o <11 1'11 ' so 1 11:11. 1111' 12111111
1111111111L1'i1111'10 02111: 11r<1 1 511011111 11' 1111 211111111119; in 1111" 11211111, 211111
11'1'111 11.111011 B111. 11011110 1 1211' 11111111, 1 11111 1111211 1 1111" 112111 1111111"
in 2111 1111' 1111': 1 11111121111 11111111, 211111 111111111 111 (11111 1'0 11.11111 1111:
1110111150111 1111311121111 .1 culled upon 111111 In 1111. 11211 (11 1101111113121:
11011111 11011101 1110. .\1101' 1111- 111011011 21.1111 i1111101"-1101 111'211-11' 1121s 01'-'11,
l (11.111111 110 rum in which 1 11.111 <11'1111'1l 1110 101121001) , 11111011 1121< so
s11'0111_1;2111d 1' 12111 of the 101121000,111211 indeed 1 01111111 5021100 1:01 11
11011211, ' 10111101110101): 1111011 this 1 11' 0111 10 11011.] 10111111 11105011111 1110
mm 11011 1111 into 1111' 1102111 1i1110n111-11111 1 1011 into 21 511111111 $10,011
31111 112111011 110 more 1111 111' 1111'. um, i1 1111151 11120055211in 111: 121211' 1.11m:
12' 010011 111 the 2211'01110011 11113 110111 day; 11211310 this 11011131 211111 11221'111'
01' 011111011, 111211. 1 slept. all 1111' 110\1.1l211-'211111 night, 211111 till 2111111151.
111100 11101133 after; 1111' 111'110111'i.<c. 1 111.01.- 1101 11111121 511011111 1051: 21
112110111. 01' 11111001101000,- 111 1111: 11211.< 111 1.111: 110011, 215 11 2111111121er
some years after I 112111 110110; 1'01'1. 1112211 11111 in l1yc1055111g and
11'-crossing the Lin0,1.sh011l11 112110 11151 more than one (1215'; but
Certainly I 1081. 3 112115111 my ' "1111111., 211111 1101' 121' 1111011 11111011 way.
Be that however, one 1113 or 1h1': 01.1101, 1111011 I 21111111011 I humid
myself 01100011111111 11' retres 011,211111 1111' spu'its lively and cheerful:
when I 301211) f11'215 stronger 1112111 1 was 1112 1101 before and my
stomach better, for T \rns hungry: and, in short, I had no fit the
next day, but (:uulinuud much altered for the better. This was the
Will.

The 3(hh was 1in we" (lay, of course; and I went abroad With
my gun, but. did not. cure to trurcl too fur. 1 killed zrscal'owl or

 

um, something; like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not. very forward to eat. them; so T ate some. more of the turtlo's
eggs, which were very good. This evening I runcwed the medicine,
which I had Hipposcd did me good the (lay before, Viz the tobacco
steeped in mm; only 1 did not. lukv so much as below. 1101' did}
chew any of tho loul', or hold my head over Ihe smoke: however, I
was not so well the next day, which was the lsL of July, as l hoped
1 should have been ; for i had a little of the cold fit, but it was not
much.

JL'Lr Q and 3. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I
drank.

JL'Lr i. In the morning I took the llil)h:; and begiiming at the
New Testament, .| hogun seriously to road it; and imposed u on
myself to rend u whih: over)" morning and every night; not bin
myself to the numbvr of cliuptors, but as long as my thoughts
should (suguge me. it was not long after 1 set seriouslyto this
work, that 1 found my heart sincerely atl'ectccl with the wickedness of
my past life. The words, ".All these tlungs have not brought theeto
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly. begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened. prondentially, the
verv sumo dny. that, retarding the scripture, I came to those words,
" lie is vxulud :1 Prince and a Saviour; to give repentance and to
give remission." I threw down the book; and with mv heart, as
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasi' of jov, I
cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalted
Prince and Saviour! give me repentance." This was the first time
in all my life I could sat, in the true sense of the words, that I
prayed ; .l'or now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scripture V'lCW of hope, founded on the cneonraqment of the.
word of God : and from this time, I may saw, I bound to have hope
that God would hear me. i I

 

From the 4th of July to the Hill, I was chiefly employed in
walking about. with my gun in my hand, a. little and a ittle at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. 'l'he application which I made use of was
pcrfcctlyncw, and perhaps what had never cured an ague before:
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carry off the lit, yet it rather contributed
to weakening me; for 1 had frequent. convulsion in my nerves and
limbs for some time : I learned from it also this, in particular; that
being abroad in the rainy scascm was the most pernicious thing to my
health that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind ; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so
1 found that this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me ; and I firml)r believed that no human shape had ever
set; foot u on that place. Having secured my habitation, as I
thought,f [y to my mind, I had a grcnt desire to make a moremvzxrunts Cir zonixsoix unusoE. 'OL

, erfect discovery of the Island, and to see what other productions
might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more articular
survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first, w ere, as I
hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good:
but this being the dry season, there was hard] any water in some

arts of it; at least, not any stream. On the anks of this brook

found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and
covered with grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to this
higher grounds (where the water, as it might be sup osed, never
overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, green, an growing to
a very great and stronv stalk: and there were divers other plants,
which I had no knowledge of, or understanding about, and that
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I. searched for the cassava. root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of ; but I could find none. Isaw large
plants of :tloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know the virtue
and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the fields; at least, very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and after
. oing something further than I had gone the day before, I found the
brook and the earannahs begin to cease, and the country become
more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits ; and
particularlyI found melons u on the ground in great abundance,
and grapes upon the trees: t e vines, indeed, had spread over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very
ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was ex-
ceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them , remembering that when I was asuore in Barbary,
the eating of gm es killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by tnrowing them into fluxes and fevers. I found.
however, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to cure or
dry them in the sun, and hen them as dried rapes or raisins are
kept; which I thought wool be (as indeed t ey were) as whole-
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to be had.

Having spent three days in this journey, I came home, so I must
now Call my tent and my cave.

When I came home from this journey, I contempmtcd with' eat
pleasure the fmitfulness of that valley, and the plmmntness o the
situation; the security from storms on that side ; the water and the
wood; and concluded that 1 had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode in, which was by far the worst: part of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation, and to

 

look out for a place equally safe as where 1 was now situate; if
possible, in that pleasant. fruitful part. of the island.

I was so enuumured of this plaer, thal I spent much ol' my time
there for the. whole remaining part. ot' the month of July; and
though, upon seemnt thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built
me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a
strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked, and tilled between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure
smnetimes two or three nights together; always going over it with
a ladder, as before: so that I fancied now I had my country and
my sea-coast house. This work took me up to the beginning of
August.

About the beginning of August, I had finished my bower, and
began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I
had hung: up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins ol' the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees;
and it was very happy that I did so, as the rains which followed
would have. spoiled them, and 1 should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of them.
No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but; it began to rain: and from hence. which was
the 14th of August, it. ruined, more or less. every day till the middle
of October; and sometimes so violently, that i could not stir out of
my care for several days.anvrmrunns or ROBINSON causes. 63

In this season, I was much surirised with the increase of my
family. I had been concerned for tie loss of one of my cats, who
ran away l'rom me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about the end

 

of August, thouoh I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my
gun, yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our European
cats: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the. ,g
old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought it very y
strange. But from those three, I afterwards came to be so estered
with cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wil beasts, '
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so that I
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I began to be straitened for food, but venturing out
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the 24th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was
now regulated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled for my dinner, (for,
to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything,)
and two or three of the turtlc's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I worked daily
two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and by decrees worked 1t
on towards one side, till I came to lie outside of tllefilill: and made
a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lying so
open: for as I had managed myself before, I was in a erfect
enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet could
not perceive that there was any living thin to fear, the biggest
creature that I had as yet seen upon the islan being a goat.

SEPTEMBER 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary} of
my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I ad
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast! setting it apart. for religious exercise, prostraling
myself on the round with the most serious humiliation, confessing
my sins to Go , acknowledging his righteous judgments upon nae,
and praying to him to have mercy on me through Jesus Christ; one
having not tasted the least refreslnnent for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, 1 then are a biscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I be an it. I had all
this time observed no subba'tlrduy ; for as at first hail no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, alter some time, omitted to distinguish
the weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not reallylcnow what any of the days were: but
now having cast 11 the days, as above, I found I had been there a
your; so I' divide it into weeks, and settzipart every seventh day for
a sabbath : though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost>> a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning
to fail me, I contented myself to use it more sparingly; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my life.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly; but I bought all my experience before I had it.

While my corn was growing, 1 made a little discovery, which was
of use to me afterwzn'ds. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began to settle, which was about the month of November.
I made a Visit up the countryr to my bower; where, tho 0h I had
not been for some months, yet I found all things just as"? had left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which i had cut our of some trees that grow
thereuhouts, were all shot. out and grown with long branches, as
much as n willow-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its
bend; but I could not. tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was surprised= and yet very well pleased, to see the
lzoung Irees grow; and l pruned them, and led them to grow as
much alike. as i could: and it. is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years: so that, though the hedge
made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such 1 might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
plete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. This made
me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a. hedge like this, in
a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which
I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a. double row, at about eight
yards distance from my fence, they grew presentl ; and were at
first. :1. fine cover to my habitation, and afterwar served For I!
defence also: as I shall observe in its order.nomxsox MAKES A 'roun :ro :eerom: ms ISLAND.

I ronxn now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were enerally thus: From the middle
of February to the middle of Apri , rainy; the sun being then on
or near the equinox. From the middle of April till the middle of
August, dry; the sun being then north of the Line. From the middle
Auvust till the middle of October, rainy; the sun being then come
bzielc to the Line. From the middle of October till the middle of
February, dry; the sun being then to the south of the Line.

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter,
as the winds happened to blow; but this was the general observation
I made. After 1 had found, by experience, the lll consequences of
being abroad in the rain, 1' took care to furnish myself with provisions
beforehand, that I minht not be obliged to go out; and I sat Within
doors as much as possible during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the time; as I found
great occasion for many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with, but by hard labour and constant application; particularly, I
tried many ways to make myself a. basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at abasket-maker's in the
town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware;
and being, as boys usually are, very ofiicious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I Cut my stakes
that grew, might ossibl},r be as tough as the snllows, willows, and
osiers, in Eng-Ian , and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next
day, I went to my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could

 

desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to
cut down :1 quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty
of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or hedge; and
when. they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and there,
during7 the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as
I conId, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up
anything I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose;
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as
my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especially strong deep
basket-s to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come
to have any quantity of it.

I mentioned before, that I had great mind to see the whole island;
and that 1 had travelled up the brook, and so onto where I had
built my bower, and where 1 had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I new resolved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore, on that. side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of iowder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit-cakes, and a great. bunch of raisins in my pouch, for my store,
I be , n my journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
steer , as above, I came within view of the sea, to the west ; and it
being a clear day, I fairly desericd land, whether an island or con-
tinent I eculd not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
S.W. at a very great disranec; by my guess, it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues elf.

 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions; and
perha )S was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed,
I ha been in a worse condition than I was now. I therefore ac-
quiesced in the dispositiou of Providence, which I began now to
own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; I say, I quieted
my mind with this, and left off afllieting myself with fruitless wishes
of being there. Besides, after some reflection upon this affair,
I considered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was a savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of savages;
for they are cannibals, or men-caters, and fail not to murder and
devour all human beings that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found
this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasauter than mine;
the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and rass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; an fain
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to he tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some pains catch a
young parrot; for I knocked it down with a. stick, and, having recov-
ered it, I brought it home ; but it was some years before I could
make him 3 eax; however, a'; last I taught him to call me by my
name very amiliarly.
l was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in the low
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes ; but they difi'ered
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that. which was very
good Loo , especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle,
or tortoise.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surnised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the Worst side of the is ml; for here indeed
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whore-us, on the
other side] had found but iiiree in a year zuid a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of muny kinds; some of which I had
nor. seen before, and many of them very good meat, hut such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine;
yet I had not. theleust inclination to remove; foras I was fined inmy
habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while [was
here to be as it were upon a journey, and from home. However, I
travelled along the seashore towards the east, I suppose about twelve
miles, and lheu setting up a great pole upon the seashore for a mark,
1 concluded I would go home again; and that the next journey I
look should he on the other side of the island, cast from my dwelling,
and so round Iill I came to my post again; of which in iLs place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss
finding my first, dwelling by viewing the country; but I found myself
mistaken; for being; come about. two or three miles, I found myself
descended in u very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and
those hills covered with wood, that. I could not, see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at. that time of the day, And it
happened to my further misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered abouL very uncomfortable, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside. look for my post, and come hack the
same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homewnrd,
the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet.
and other things very heavy.
lll-l RETURNS TO HIS CAVE--HIS AGRICULTURAL LARGE-RS AND
SUCCESS.

Ix this journey, my dog surprised a young kid and seized upon it;
and I running to take hold of it, caught it, and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had
oft-cu been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and so misc a breed of fame goats, which might supply me with
food when my powder and shot were all 3 mm. I made a collar for
this little crcntm'c, and with a string which I had made of some rope
yarn, which I always carried about. me, I led him along, though with
some difficulty, tillI came to my bower, and there I enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to he at home, from whence
I had been absent above a month.

I reposcd myself here a week, to rest and rcgalc myself after my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty
ull'air of makinn" a cage for my Poll, who began now to be more do-
mcs'tic, and to the mightv well ac uainted with me. Then I began to
think of the met kid which I ha penned within my little circle, and
resolved to fi2tcli it home, or give it some food; accordingly I went,
and found in where I left it (for indeed it could not et out,) but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut oughs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and having fed
it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature be-
came so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.
It. was now that, I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
he I now icd was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life 1 led all the past part of my days ;
anu now having changed both my sorrows and my joys: my very
desires altered, my atl'cctions, changed and my delights were per-
fectly new from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past. Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at. my condition
would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die
within me, to think of the woods, the mountzuns, the deserts I was
in ; and how I was a prisoner, locked it ) with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wil erness, without redemption.
]n the midst of the greatest composures of my mind this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and
weep like a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit. down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together : and this was still worse to me ;
but if I could burst into tears, or give. vent to my feelings by words,
it would go oh"; and my grief having exhausted itself would abate.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I be an my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the tron le of so particular an
account of my works this year as the first, yet in general it may be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, having regulady divided my
time, according to the several daily employments that were. before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which
I constantly set apart. some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every morning, when it. did not rain: thirdly, The ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catchcd for my
supply; these took up great part of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time] could he sup osed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my liours
of hunting and workinw, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in file afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, [ desire may be added the
exceedingly laboriousness of mv work; the many hours which, for
want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everythinq I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two and forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my care;
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would out six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three
da's cutting down, and two more in cuttin off the boughs, and

ucing it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it was light
enou h to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth
and 1 at as a board, from end to end; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and patience
carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this in particular, to show the reason why so much of my time went
away with so little work, viz. that what might be a little to he done
with he! and tools, was a Vast labour, and required a prodigious
time to go alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, with patience
and labour T. went through many things; and, indeed, everything
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do, as will appear
by what follows.

 

I was now, in the months of November and December, expecting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up
for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
more than half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sowing in the
dry season : but now my crop n'omised very well; when, ona sudden,
1 found I was in danger of osing it again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first, the.
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it nirrht and day, as soon as it came
uphand ate it so close, that it could get no time to shoot up into
sia '.

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an encIOsurc about it
with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil ; and the mom,
because it required speed. llowever, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my cmp, I got it tolerably well fenced in about
three weeks" time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
time, I set; my dog to guard ii at night, tying: him up to a stake at
the gate, where he would stand and bark all night: long; so in a
little time the enemies IUI'SOOk the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the
blade, so the birds were likcl}r to ruin me now, when it was in tht=
ear; for going along by the place to see how it throvc, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should he gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had my {run with me, and killed three
of them. I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains, for a terror to others.
It is impossible to imagine that this should have such an ell'e-ct as it-
had; for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. This I
was very glad of, you may he sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my
com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to out it down: and all
I could do was to make one as wr-ll as I could, out of one of the
broad swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
511111;. However as my first crop was but small, I had no "rcat
d culty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing of but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my hands ; and at the end ofmVENTUm or scanner cause: 73

all my harvesti , I found that out of my ball peek of seed I has
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a. half oi
barley ; that isto say, by my guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to sn ply me with bread; yet here
I was perplexed again; for I neither new how to grind, or make
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this cro , but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in t e meantime, to employ all in
study and hours of working to accomplish this great work of provi -
in" myself with corn and bread.

1,It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much
upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary in the pro-
viding, producing, curing, dresain , making, and finishing this one
article of bread. I that was re need to a mere state of nature;
found this to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it; well, this I con uered by making a wooden spade, as I
observed before; but this id my work in but a wooden manner. The
corn was sown; I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. Then I wanted a mill
to mind it, sieves to dreSs it; yeast and salt. to make it into bread',
andbm oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without, as
shall be observed; and the corn was an ineslimable comfort and
advent e to me; and as I resolved to use none of the com for bread
till I ha a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
applymysclf wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with

utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary for
making corn fit for my use.

 

re
HIS MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY, AND CONI'IIIVANCE FOR BAKING
BREAD.

BUT now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at
least; to make me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a sorry
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work with
it ; however, I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large
flat pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to my
mind, and fenced them in wiih a good hedge; the stakes of which
were all out off that wood which I lied set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one year's time, I know 1 should have a quick or
living hedge, that would want l)uL little repair. This work took me
up full rhree months ; because a great part of the time was in the wet
season, when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when in
mined, and I could not. go out, I found employment on the following;
occasions ; always observing, that while 1 was at work, I diverted
myself with talking- to my parrot, and teaching him to speak ; and I
quickly laught- him to know his own name, and at last to speak it
out. pretty lend, Poll; which was the first word I ever heard spoken,
in the island by any month but. my own. This, therefore, was not
my work, but an assistant to my work ; for now, as I said, I had a

real. employment upon my hands, as follows: 1 had long studied,
fiy some means or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted much, but knew not where to come at them; how-
ever, considering the heat ol the climate, I did not doubt but if 1
could find out any clay, I mi ht botch up some such pot as might,
being dried in the sun, be har and strong enou h to bear handling,
and to hold anything that was dry, and requirerf to be kept so; and
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis-
shapen. ugly things I made; how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in a word, how, after having
laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two large earthcrn ugly
thii s (I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labour.

I owever, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and as between the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stuffed it ml] of the rice and barley straw; and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large Ipots, yet 1
made several smaller things with better success; such as ttle round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and everything my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen

at to hold liquids, and hear the fire, which none of these could do.
It happened some time after, making a rett larva fire for cooking
my meat, when I went to put it out alter ' had done with it, 1
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeabl sur-
prised to see it; and said to myself, that certainly they migit he
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the otters burn in,
or of glazi 0 them with lead, though 1 had some Is to do it with;
but I place three large Dipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and placed my fire-wood all round it, with a great
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red<<
hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, tho h it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixe with the clav melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on;
so 1 slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to abate of the red
colour; and watching them all night, that I might not let the fire
:dmle too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 1 will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other corthern pots, as hard burnt as
Could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.

My next concern was to get a stone mortar to heat some corn in;
for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that. perfection
of art with one. pair of hands. 'l'o supply this want I was at a. great
loss; for, of all trades in the world, l. was as perfectly unqualified
for u stone-cutter as for may whatever _: neither had 1 any tools to go
about it with. I spent many a day to find out- a great stone his;
enough to out hollow, and make lit for a mortar; but could lind none

 

at all, except What was in the solid rock, and which I had no wu}
to dig or out out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient. hurdmcss,n5 they were all of. a sandy crumblingr stone, which.
would neither beer the weight of :1 heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling- it with sand ; so, after a great, deal of time
lost in looking fora stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out
for a block of hard wood, which 1 found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, l rounded and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help of the fire, and infinite labour. made a hollow in it, L15 ltlw
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a rent
heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood called iron-wood; and t 's I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of com, when
I proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my (soul into
meal, to make my bread.

The baking part was the next thing to beconsidered, and how I should
make bread when 1 came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast;
as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not con-
cern myself much about it; but for an oven 1 was indeed puzzled.
At length I found out An expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and
when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which
I hand paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also ; but 1 should not (all them 5 note. When the firewood was
burned into embers, or live coals, drew them forward upon the
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my
loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the earthen pot, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the
heat ; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pies, as I had nothing to put into them except
the flesh of l'owls or goats.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger; I Wanted a place to lay it u in; for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that had of the
barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for m bread had
been quite gone a great while; I resolved also to see w at quantity
eruld be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a
year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume m a year; so I resolved to
sow just the same quantity evepyuuycnr that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would y provide me With bread. to.
MEDITATES HTS ESCAPE F110." Tlll'. ISI.;\l\'D---BUILDS A C:\.\'OE'--

FAILURE OF HIS SCHEME--RESIGNATION TO HIS CONDITIOX 1
MAKES HIMSELF A SEW DRESS.

ALL the while these things were doing, you may he sure my thoughts
run mam' times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other side of the island; and l was not without some secret wishe'l
lhat. I was on shore there; t'aneying, that. seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, .1 might find some way or other to convey
m'rsclt' farther, and perhaps a: last. find some arenas of escape.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-heat with the
shoulder-of--mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on. the coast of Africa; hut this was in rain; than t thought I
would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as T have said, was
blown up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were
first; cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but not. quite,
having turned by the three of the waves and the winds, almost
hot-torn upward, against a high ridge of henchy rough sand ; but no
water about her as before. ll' 1 had had hands to have rel. .ted her,
and to have launclntd her into the water, the boat would have done
very well, and 1 might have gone back into the. Brazils with he:
easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn
her and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the
island; however, went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to tr what I could do;
suggesting to mvsell', that if I could but turn or down, and repair
the damage she had received, she would be a very good boat, and I
miwlrt venture to sea in her.

I spared no pains, indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent
1 think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, I fell to dig ing away the
sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her fall own, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
I had done this, I was unable to stir her u avain, or to get under
her, much less to move her forward towar s t 0 water ; so I was
forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to make
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy,
and pleased myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
lndians ; but not at all consideri n the particular inconvenience
which I lay under more than the In tans did, viz. the want of hands
to move it into the water when it was made.

I went to work 11 )On this bOat the most like a fool that ever man
did, who had any oi his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
design, without determining whether I was able to undertake it; not
but that the diiticulty of launching my boat came often into my head;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer:
Let us first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get it along when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of mv
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and 'I
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
of the Temple at Jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then arted into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I felle this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and herring at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spreadi head of
it, cut off; after this, it cost me amonth to shape it and du it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swim upright as it 0 arm to do. It cost me near three months more
to clear the inside, an work it out so as to make an exact boat of it;
tnisI did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it, to he a very hand-
some periugua, and big enough to have carried me and all my
cargo.

But all my devises to get it into the water failed me; thouqh they
cost an inurpressiblc labour too. It lay about one hundred yards
from the water, and not. more; but the first incom'euience was, it
was up hill towards ihe creek. Well, to take away this discourage-
ment, I resolved 1.0 dig into the surface of the earth, and so 1111th u
declirity; this I begun, and it cost. me a prodigious deal of pains;
but. who grudge pains that have their deliverance in View? When
this \rus'worked through, and this ditlieulty managed, it: was still
much llu: sauue, for 1 could no more stir The cuune than I could the.
other heat. Then I. measured the distance of ground, and resolved

 

to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing- I
could not bring the canoe down to the water. "roll, I began this
work; and when l. begun to enter upon it, and calculate how deep
it. was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to he thrown out, I
found by the number of hands I had, huringnonc but my own, that
it must have. been ten or twelve years before I could have gone
through with it; for the shore luy so high, that al- the upper end it,
must have been at least>> twenty feet deep ; this attempt, thoughu'ith
great relucluncy, 1 was at length obliged to give over also.

This grieved inc heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the
folly of beginning a work before we count; the cost, and before we
judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth your in this place,
and kept my anniversary with the same devotion and with as much
comfort as before; for, by oconstant study and serious application
to the word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a
different knowledge from what I had before; I entertained difl'erent
notions of things: I looked now upon the world as a thing,r remote,
which 1 had nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed, no
desires about : in a word, 1 had nothing to do with it, nor was even
likely to have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon
it hereafter, viz. us a plnco I had lived in, but was come out- ot' ir.
and well might i say, as father Ah'rnhzun lo Dives, "Between me and
thee is a great gulf lixeil."

 

I spent whole hours, I ma).r say whole days, in representing to
myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted 11' I had
got nothing out of the ship. I could not have so much as wot any
food, except fish and turtles ; and that, as it was long before i found
an),r of them, I must have perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a. fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or
open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
up, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it to pieces With my
claws, like :1 beast. .

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi-
denee to me, and very thankful for my present condition, With all Its
hardships and misfortunes ; and this part also I eannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say. "18
any affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse the
cases of some people are, and their case would have been, if Provi-
dence had thought fit.

With these reflect ions 1 worked my mind up, not only to a resig-
nation to the will of God in the present. disposition of my circum-
stances, but even to a sincere ihankfulness for my condition; and
that .l, who was yet. a living man, ought not to complain, seeing
I had not. the. due punishment. of my sins; that I enjoyed so many
mercies that l had no reason to have expected in that place, that I
ought. never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice, and to
give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd

 

of wonders could have brought ; that I ought to consider 1 had been
fed by a miracle (even as great as that of feeding Eli'ah by ravens),
nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I could hardly have
named a place, in the uninhabited part of the world, where I
could have been cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I
had no society, which was my alllietion on one hand, so I found no
ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomous or poisonous creatures, which 1 might- feed on to my hurt;
no sarages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a
life 01 sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself
sensible of God's goodness to me, and care over me. in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these things, T went
away, and was no more sud.

My clothes now began to decay mightily; as to linen, I had
none for a great while, except some chequered shirts which 1
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.

I began to consider about putting, the few rags I had, which 1
called clothes, into some order. 1 red worn out all the waistcoats
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make 'ackets
out of the great watch-coats that Lhud by me, and with sue other
materials as I had; so 1 set to work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a
belching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that
I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched
out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others I found very
useful. The first thing I made of .these was a great cap for mv
head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this I
performed so well, that after this 1 made me a suit of clothes wholly
of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and hreechcs open at the
knees, and both loose; for they were rather wanting to kec me cool
than warm. 1 must not omit to acknowled that t ey were
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, was a worse tailor
However, they were such as 1 made very good shift with; and when
l was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost, was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an
umbrella. 1 made one and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
so that it cast off the rain like a. pent-house, and kept off the sun
so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
with wreater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
whentl had no need of it, could close it and carry it. under my
arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, in mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning to the will of 0d, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his rovidence. This made my life
better than sociable; for when Ipbegan to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thounrhts, and as 1 ho e 1 may say with even
God himself, by ejacu ations, was not lietler than the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world?
111: MAKES A SMALLER CANOE, IN WHICH HF. ATTRMI'TS T0 CRUISE
ROUND THE ISLAND--HIS PEHILOISS SITUATION AT SEA--HE
RETURNS HOME.

I CANNOT say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but- I lived on in The same etmrse, in the same nos-
ture and place, just as before; the chief things I was employed in,
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of hothwhich I always kept up just enough to have saili-
(riem stock of one year's provision bct'orehmid; I say, besides this
,yeariy labour, and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun. I had
one labour, to make me a canoe, which at. last. I finished ; so that by
digging a canal to it six feet. wide, and four feet; deep, I brought; it
into the creek, almost half a mile.

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size of
it. was not. at ail answerable to the design which I had in View when
I made the first ; I mean, of venturing over to the {cw-a firmn, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of in)
boat- assisted to put an end io that design, and now I thought no
more of it. As I had a heel, my next design was to make a cruise
around the island ; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over the land, so the dis-
coveries I made in that. little journey made me Very eager to see
other parts of the coast : and now I had a boat, I thought- of nothing
but sailing round the island.abrasions or ROBINSOi! bruises; 85

It was on the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and 1
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea, some
above water, some under it ; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a leanue more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and conic back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climb-
ing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill Where I stood, 1 erceived a
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to t e cast, and
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger that, when I came into
it, I might be carried out to sea by the strenuth of it, and not be
able to make the island again; and, indeed, hall I not got first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there was the same
current on the other side of the island, only that it set OK at a farther
distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presentl be in an eddy.

I lay ore, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty
fresh at E. S. E., and that being just contrary to the said current,
made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was not
safe for me to keep too close to the shore, for the breach, nor to go
too far off, because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight.
the see was calm, and I ventured; but I ama warning piece again to
all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a
mill; it carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the ed e of it; but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the c dy, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I
could do with my paddles signified nothing; and now I b to give
mvself over for lost; for as the current was on both si es of the
island, I knew in 11 few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then 1 was irrecoverably gone; nor did Isee any possibility of avoid~
iiig it; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not b
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starvuig for hunger.
had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as 1 could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pets; but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where there was no shore, no
main land or island, for a thousand leagues at least?

It is scarce possible to ima ine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my belove island (for so it appeared to me now
to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost
despair ot'cver recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till
indeed my stren th was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as
much to the nort ward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as pessiblv I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in
my lace, springing up from SSE. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time 1 was get at a frightful distance from the
island. and had the least cloudy or haz- weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I ha no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered towards the island, if
I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand-
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, i saw even by the clearness of the water seine alteration of
the current was near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, 1 found the current
abate; and presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks ; these rocks I found caused the
current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, leavin'r the rocks to the northeast, so the other returned
by the repulse 0 the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back
again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder
them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present sur rise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of t iis eddy; and the wind also fresheniiur, how gladly 1
Spread mv sail to it, running cheerfully before the Wind, and with a
strong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a leaguein my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when 1
come near the island, 1 found myself open to the northern shore of
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which
I went out from.

When i had made sow-"Jung inure than a league of way by the
help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about a league on the other side; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this (he
aster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting off the current more southerly, had, of course, made another

 

eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but not directly"
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having afresh gale I stretched acress this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, came within about a
inilg of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
an .

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks
for my deliverance, resolvin to lay aside all thoughts of my deliver-
ance by my boat ; and refres ing myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with
the labour and fatigue of the voyage.
1 now had enough of rambling to sea for some time. and had
enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the
danger 1 had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island; but 1 know not how it was
iracticable to get. it about. As to the east side of the island, which

had gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturingy that
way ; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but
to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposing the current run with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it. on the other, 1
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it. had been the product. of so many months' labour
to make it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a
very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I could,
upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially consider-
ing how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which
_[ found infinitely easier and better; because I made things round
and shapcnble, which before were filthy things indeed to look upon.
But I think I was never more vain of my performance, or more joy-
ful for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a
tobacco-pipe: and though it was a vcr ugly clumsy thing when it
was done, and only burned red, like ot- cr earthenware, yet it was
hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com~
t'orted with it, for I had always been used to smoke.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this was
a want which it was impozssible for me to en ply, and I began ser-
iously to consider what I must do when 1? should have no more
powder, that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
IS observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid,
and bred her up mum, and l was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but
1 could not by any means bring; it to pass, till my kid grew an old

cat, and as i could never find in my heart to kill her. she died at
'5t of mere use.
1113 REARS A FLOCK 01" GOATS--EIS DAIRY---HIS DOMESTIC HABITS
ASD STYLE 0]? LIVING--INCREASING PROSPERITY.

BEING now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as I have said
my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not. catch some of them
alive. I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where 1 had
observed the goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own making too, with a reat weight upon them; and several
times I put ears of barley and ry rice, without setting),r the trap; and
I could easily ereeive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At len th I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found them all
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discourag-
ing: however, I altered my traps; and one morning I found ifironc
of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a
male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not What to do with him; he was so
fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end; so I even let him out, nd he ran away, as if he had been.
frightened out of his wits. I went to the three kids, and taking them
one b one, I tied them with strings together, and with some ditficnlty
broug it them all home.

6
it was a good while before they would food; but throwing them
some sweet. corn, it. tempted them, and they began to he tame. And
now 1 found that. if 1 expected to supply myself with goats" flcsh
when I. had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, perhaps, I might- have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. But. then it occurred to me, that 1 must keep the
tame from the wild. or else they would always run wild when they
grow up; and the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so

 

effectually, that, those within might not break out, or those without
break in.

But this was not all; for now I not (ml)r had goats' flash to feed
on when I )lcased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the ho-
ginning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my
dairy, andhnd sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to ever ' creature, dictates evcn
naturall)r how to make use of it, so I, that.- liad ncrcr milked a cow,
much less a goat, or soon butter or cheese made, only when I was a
boy, aftcra great man ' essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, an also salt (though I found it. partly made to my
band by the hour. of the sun upon some of the rocks of the scar), and
never wanted it afterwards.anvnurckzs or aonmsou censor, 9]

It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my ma'esty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of a my subjects at my

absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
awe ; and no rebels among all my subjects.

T ien to see how like a Ian I dined too, all alone, attended by my
servants; Poll, as if he had een my favourite, was the only erson
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now vrown very o d and
crazy, and two cats, one on one side of the bible, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour.

My own figure was uncouth enough. I had 9. eat hi h shapeless
cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap hanging (firm be ' d, as well
to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain oil' from running into
my neck; nothin being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under t e clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of
the same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goot,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like ants,-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and s oes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either
side like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind or
iron on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a
little saw and a hatchet; one on one side and one on t e other. I
had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one or
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried
my basket, and on my shoulder my gun; and over my head a great
clumsy ugl goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary t ring I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was not so mulatto-like as one might expect mm a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees at
the equinox. My beard I had once sufi'ered to grow till it was about
a uarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors
sugcient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper h ,
which I had tr m ed into a large pair of Mahomet-an whiskers. so
as I had seen wom by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moore did not
wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustachios or whiskers.
.I will not sa they were 10 enough to hang my hat upon them, but
they were 0 a length and s ape monstrous enough, and such as, ll
England. would have passed for frightful.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent with the
wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by
this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within
another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a
door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, be 0nd
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the argc
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or
fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provision, es ially my corn, some in
the ear, cut 011' short from the straw, and t e other rubbed out with
my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or pnes, those
piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
Spread so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to
my one's view, of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a. little farther within the land,
and u on lower ground, lay m two pieces of corn land, which I
kept uly cultivated and sowe , and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which
encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual hei ht, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, WillCI at first were
no more than my stakes, but were now grown ver firm and tall,
always out so, that they might spread and grow thic and wild, and
make the more a, reeable shade, which they did effectually to my
mind. In the mid e of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail Spread over poles, set up for that purpose. and which
never wanted any re air or renewing; and under this I had made
me a squab or couc , with the skins of the creatures I had killed,
and with other soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as be-
longed to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
UNI-EXPECTED ALARM. AND CAUSE FOR APPREHENBION--HE TORTI-
PIES HIS ABODE.

11' ha pencd one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was
exeeer ingly surprised with the print of a. man's naked foot on the
shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstrnck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the shore and down the
shore, but it was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe. if it might not be my fancy; but 'here was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a. but, toes, heel, and every
art of afoot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
east imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts. like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified
to the last degree; looking behind me at every two or three ate 5.
mistaking: every bush and tree, and faneying every stump at a 's-
tancc to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes in atfrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wil ideas were found every moment in my fane , and what

strange unaccountable wliimsies came into my thoughts y the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it cv er after
this), [fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the
ladder, as first eo11t1i11-1l, or went 111 at the hole 1n the rock, 11hich I
had called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember
the. 11e\t 1110111i11g; 1'01 never fri htened ha1e fled to cover, or fin to
emth 11i1l1 11101e 1.c1ro1' of mindl. 111m I to this wheat.

l presently concludi- -d that it 1111151. be some of the 5111' ages of the
main land over against me who had "andeled out to sea in their
canoes, and, eithe1r3 d1iv on by the cm rents or by contrarv winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone 17111111 again
to sea; being as loth, pe1haps, to have stayed 111 this desolate island
as 1 would have been to 111110 had them.

 

ll hilc these reflections were 1olling upon my mind, I was ve1y
thankiul 1n my thoughts that 111115 so happy as not. to be theleabouts
at. that time, or that thev did not see 1111' boat, by 1111ich thov would
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps ha1-e searched fa1tl m 101' me: then tenihle thoughts racked
my imagination about their 11'11111" found 1m boat, and that then:
11 ere people here; and that it so, 1 should certainlv have them come

again in greaim 1i11111bers,11nd devour me: that if it should happen
so that they shmild not find me, yet thev would find my enclosule,
destroy all 1111' corn, and cauy 1111111 all 1111' flock oi tame goats, and
I should perish at last 101' 111e1e want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former con-
fidence' 111 God, which 11 as lounded upon such wonderful experience
as I had had of His goodness, as if He that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not nreserve bv His power, the provision which He
had made for me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my
lazmess, that would not sow. any more com one year than would
just serve me till the next season, as if no accident would intervene
toprevent my enjoying the cr0p that was upon the round; and
this I thought so Just a. reproof, that I resolved for t 9 future to
have two or three year's corn beforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.

In the middle of these cogitntions, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of my own, and that this foot might he'the print of my
foot, when I came on shore from my beat; this cheered me up

 

a little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion,
that it was nothing else but my own foot: and why might I not
come that way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to
the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could by no means tell
for certain, where I had trod, and where I had not : and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools, who try to make stories of speetres and apparitions,
and then are frightened at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to eep abroad again, for 1
had not stirred out of my castle for three ays and nights, so that I
began to starve for provisions; for I had little or nothing within
doors but some barley cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the belief
that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,36 invert-runes or nonwso'n cxnmli.

and that 1 might be truly said to start at in own shadow, I beg"
to go abroad again, and went to my country house to milk my deck:
but to see with what fear I went. forward, how often I looked be-
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down mv
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one think I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately moat.
terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as 1 went
down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to
be a little holder, and to think there was really nothing in it but
my own imagination; but 1 could not persuade myself fully of this
till I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a fleet,
and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitudb or
fitness, that. I might. be assured it Was my own foot: but when I
came to the place, first, it nppeared evidently to me, tliat when l
.uid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
nhont: secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own
foot, I found my foot not so large by a great. deal. Both these
things tilled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that. I shook with cold like
one in an argue; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security, I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
it deprives them of the use of those means which reason oll'ers for
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, nnd him all my tonic cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then frequent the
island in prospect of the some or like bootv; then to the simple
thing of digging up my two corn fields, lest they should find sues a
grain there, iind still he prom )ted to frequent the island; then to
demolish my bower and tent, t rat they mightr not see any vestiges of
habitation, zmd be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's couitatinns, after I was
come home again, while the a )prehensions whie had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, an myhead was full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than
danger itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of
amnety greater, by much, then the evil which we are anxious about;
and, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resignation 1 used to practise, that I hoped to have
I looked. I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
l'hilistines Gore upon him, but. that God had forsaken him ; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by cryin to God in my
distress, and restin upon his providence, as 1 had one before, f0.
my defence and de 'verance; which, if I had done, I had at least
been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps
carried through it with more resolution.

This confusion of m thoughts kept me awake all night; but in
the morning I fell aseep; and baring, by the amusement of my
mind, been as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
IOl'mdly' and woked much better composed than I had ever been
)6 ore.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my care so large as
to hrin a door through again, which door, as I said, came out. be-
yond w icre my fortification joined to the rock: upon maturely con-
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in- the some manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall,
'nst where I had lantcd a double row of trees about twelve year:
before, of which Ipmade mention: these trees having been planted
so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be riven between
them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would
he soon finished: so that I had now a double wall; and my outer
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and evc ythin I
could think of, to make it strong, having in it seven litt e hoes,
about as big as I might put my arm out. at. In the inside of this
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
walking upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took not-ice that I had got seven on shore
out of the ship: these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes" time: this wall I was many a weary
Ilnonth in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was
i one.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the osier
like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand
insomuch, that I believe 1 might set in near twenty thousand or
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach in outer wall.

Thus, in No ears' time, I had a thick grove; an in five or six
years' time I h a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous
thick and strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
men of what kind soever, would ever-imagine that there was anythin
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way in which I propose
to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by setting '
two ladders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
oroke in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could come down
to me without doin himself mischief ; and if they had come down,
they were still on t re outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation ; and it will be seen, at length, that they were
not altogether wit hout just reason, though I foresaw nothing at
that time more than my more l'car suggested to me.

While this was doing, I. was not altogether careless of my other
ail'airs; for 1 had a. great concern for my little herd of goats; they
were not onlg.r a ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones ; and I was
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but,
two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient

 

place to dig a care under ground, and to drive them into it over
night ; and the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of Ian ,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I could, where
I might keep about. half a dozen young goats in each place ; so that-
it' any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouhle and time; and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most. retired arts
of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, in eed,
as my heart could wish for; it was a little damp piece of ground, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where as is observed, I
almost lost. myself once before, endeavouring to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a. clear piece of
land, near thre 2 acres, so surrounded with woods, that it. was almost
an enclosure by nature; at least it. did not. want near so much
labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground I ha! worked so
hard at.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SURPRISE--ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT HIS
ISLAND HAS BEEN VISITED BY CANNIBALS.

I IMMEDIATELY went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you lease, who were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to he, were well enough secured in it; 50, With-
out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-
goats to this iece ; and when they were there I continued to perfect
the fence, tilFI had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.

All this labour I was at the expense of purely from m ' ap rehen sions
on the account of the print of a man's foot which Iliad) seen; for,
as vet, I never saw any human creature come near the island; and I
had now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my
life much less comlortable than it was before, as may be well imagined
by any one who knows what it is to live in the constant snare'of the
fear of man.

After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I went
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had
found a perspective glass or two in one o? the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me; and
this was so remote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, I did not know, but as I descended
from the bill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I
resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where,
indeed, I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the
seein" the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the
island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special providence that
I was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came,
I should easily have known that. nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they hap cned to be too far out at
sea, to shoot over to that side of the island) for harbour ; likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors having taken
any )l'lSODCTS, would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and
cut them; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore as I said above,
being the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con--
founded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, particularly, 1 ob-
served a )lace where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in t 1e earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies
of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself frorn it for a long while:
all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of
inhuman brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so
near a view of before.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes,
gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from Such dreadful creatures as these;
and that, though I had esteemed my present coudition very miser--
able, had yet. given me so many comforts in it, that I had still more
to wire thanks for than to complain of : and this, above all, that I
had), even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a

felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery I had
sufi'ered or could suffer. '

I could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other heat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea: in which if I had happened to have fallen
into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, and the satisfactioa I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to wear ofi' my uneasiness about
them; and I oegan to nve just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this difi'erence, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me, than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firip1g my gun, lest any of them being on the island should happen
to car it.

It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended
to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather broodcd
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frigrhtening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.

SSometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in live or six pounds of flruupowdcr,
which, when they kindled their fire, would consequently take fire,
and blow up all that was near it ; but as, in the first place, I should
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its going: off at a certain time, when it might surprise them:
and, at best, that it would little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place: so I laid it aside; and then roposed that I would place
myself in ambush in some convenient lime, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every shot: and then fallinv in upon them with my three

istols and my sword, I made no don t but that if there were twenty
should kill them all. This fanc pleased my thettghts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, t at I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade,
as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the place
itself, which was now crown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus filled wiih thoughts of revenge, and a putt' twent
or thirty of them to the sword as I may call it, themiorror
had at the place, and the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-
ing one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length, I found a
place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw any of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal mc entirely; and there I might sit and
observe all their fearful doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to
impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I should fail wounding
three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then, ...
resolved to fix my design; and, accordingly. I prepared two
musket-3 and my ordinary lowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of sin 5 each, and four or live smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-b ets; and the fowh'ng-picee I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: I also loaded my
pistols with four bullets each; and in this posture, well rovided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepare myself
for my expedition.

After 1 had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour every
morning up to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as 1
called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any
boats upon the sea, coming ncar the island, or standing over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
wav.

its long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an ofl'ence, which I had
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further
than my assions were at first tired by the horror 1 conceived at the
unnatura custom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had
been suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiatcd
passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely by Heaven, md actuated by
some hellish degeneracy, eculd have run them into. But now, when,
as I have said, I began to he weary of the fruitless excursion, which
1 had made so long and so for every morning in vain, so my opinion
of the action itself begun to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what 1 was going to e orage in: what
authority or call I had to pretend to be ju on an executioner

"on these men as criminals, whom Heaven 11 thought fit, for so
many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, an it were, the
eneeuzionurs of his judgments one upon another
ROBINSON DISCOV'ERS A CAVE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT
AGAINST THE SAVAGES.

Is this disposition I continued for near a year after this. I kept
myself more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, except
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she- lroats, and man-
age my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it is, that
these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came
with any thoughts of finding anything here, and consequentl never
wandered oil" from the coast; and I doubt not but they mig t have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautions, as well as before.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess
that these anxieties, these constant (11111"61'5 I lived in, and the con--
cern that was now upon me, put an endU to all invention, and to all
the conirivances that 1 had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would 1 fire a gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I
was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which i:
visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed that part of my business which required fire,
such as burning of pots, )l res, &c. into my new apartment in the
woods'1 Where, after I bad met: some time, I found, to my unspeakz
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a.
vast ray, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in: nor, indeed, would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a
safe retreat.

While I was cutting down some wood here, I erceived that be-
hind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or uni erwood, there was
a kind of hollow place : I was curious to look in it, and getting with
dillieulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: that is
to say, suilicient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another

 

with me: but I must confess to you that I made more haste out
than I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and which Was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. l'lueking up my courage, I
took up a lirebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in
my hand: I had not gone. three s1 ups in, but I vas almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a Very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it, that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still plucking
up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with
considering that. the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward ' train, and by
the light of the firebrmid, holding it up a little over my road, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous, frightful old lie-goat, just
making his will, as we say, and gasping for x:lii'e, and dying, indeed,
of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essaycd to t up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with in se f he mi ht even lie there; for if he had frightened
me, so he wool certainly right any of the savaces, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while hem any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of Nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that it re-
quired me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and n tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles
of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tal-
low, but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or
rope-yarn, and sometimes thc dried rind of a reed like nettles); and

oing into this low place, I was ohlived to creep upon all fours, as I

ave said, almost ten yards ; whic , by the way, I thought was a
venture bold enough, consideri that I knew not how far it might
go, nor what was beyond it. Vt on I had got thro 0'h the strait, 1
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty "set; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to
look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected
a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not. The place]
was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
he expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof : the on] dilliculty in it was
the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of security, and
such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so
that 1 was really rejoiced at the discover , and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those thinvs whic I was most anxious about
to this lace ; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine
of pow er, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowliug-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all: so I
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces
of cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. U on this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
happened to open t e barrel of powder which I took up cutol' the
see, and which had bPen wet; and I found. that the water had pene

H
t.t'it|t'.ll about three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which ('nking' and growing hard, had preserved the inside lik ' a ker-
nel in the, shell -. so that 1 had near sixty pounds of very good pow-
der in the eent re ot' the cask : this was a very agreeable diacm'ery to
me at. that time; so I earried all awa}r thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds ot' powder with me in my castle, for fear of a
surprise of any kind 2 I aim carried thither all the lead I had left for
lntllets.

l t'aneied myself now like one of the ancient. giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come
at them ; for l persuaded myself, while 1 was here, that if live
hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never tind me out ; or,
it' they did, the)r would not. venture to attack me here. The old
goat. whom I found expiring. died in the. month of the cave next
day after 1 made this discovery: and 1 found it much easier to dig,r
a great. hole there. and throw him in and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out ; so I interred him there, to prevent otl'enee to my
nose.

   
  
 

      

     
 

\'ueeiv

l waa now in the twentythird year of my residence in this island ;
and was so naturalised to the place. and the manner of living, that.
mold I have hut enjoyed the eertaint)' that. no savages would come
to the plaee to disturb me, I eonhl have heeueontent. to have eapitu-
lated for spending the rest of my time there, even to the last
monu-nt. till I had laid me down and died, like the old goat. in the.
are. i had also arrived to some little diversions and amuaenn-nts,
"'lllt'll made the. time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than
it. did before; as. first. I had taught my l'oll. as I noted l|(fr()l'(', to
speak: and he did it, so l'mniliarly, and talked so artieulately and
plain, that. it. was very pleasant to me: for I believe no hint ever
spoke plainer; and he lived with me no less than six-and-twent-y
years: how long he might hart- lived afterwards I know not, though
1 know they hart a not ion in the .llrazils that the)r live a hundred

. , _ i
EL,- '_ J' 51"}
-- .v"\
#7.; '
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving com anion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then 'ed of mere old
age. As for my cats, they multiplied to that do ree, that I was
0 ligcd to shoot several of them at first, to keep tlem from devour-
ing me and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, and after some time continually drivin
them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they
ran wild into the woods, exec t two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose you!) ', wlien they had any, I always drowned;
and these were part of in Family. Besides these, I alwa is kept two
or three household kids a out me, whom I ta ht to feed out of my
mud; and I had two more parrots, which llrfiked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like mv first; nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with an of them that I had done with him. 1
had also several tame sea- owls, whose names I knew not, that I
caught upon the shore, and cut their win s; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall cing now own up to a
wood thick grove, these fowls all lived among these ow trees, and
lired there, which was very a eeable to me: so that, as I said
nhovc, I began to he very wcl contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was
otherwise directed; and it may not he amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz. How
frequent] , in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek
most to s um, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course of mr un-
accountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable

than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in
this island.3.13%
<<V

hf
Ja-

   
    

     

'-

"\ (,4

    
     
  

' t
. ll'

\

I, '
.r

= WW"

.1-

/

I
u' "t
v

\

1": ."
\WQ-- 1 '

SECTION XX.

ANUTHER VISIT ()I" Till-Z S,".\(SI'I.\'--li(llllN.\'(h\' SEES THEM DANCING".
l'ERCl'ZlVICH 'l'lllz'. \\'lll".CK ()1" A VESSEL.

11' was now the month of Docmnln'r. us I said above, in my twenty-
thircl y 'm'; nml this being: thv snntln'rn solstice (fur wintvr i can-
nut. call it). was the pnrtivnlm' tinn: of my harvest, and ri-qnirud my
living much alumni in lln: llt'ltlS; when going; <<nit. pretty early
in tlne morning. vvcn ln-t'nri- it. was thm-nng'h daylight. l was
surprisn-(l with swing a light ul' sumo. tire upon tln' slim-o, at a (lid-
tnnco t'mm mo of nlmnt twu miles, towards the 0nd of the islnml
whvrv 1 had olisorvml sunn- savages had item, as below; and nut.
on lln' ntln'r side. lint. to my 3.31:". :tlllictimi, it, was on my side. of
tln- islmnl.

l was imlvml tm'rihly snrprisvcl at the sight, mnl stopped short,
within my grave, not. (hiring.' to go out, lost. 1 might he surprised;
and wt 1 Innl no morc pi'nt'v within, from the zmprt-hcnsions I
had that. it' those snvngvs, in rznnhling over the isl:nnl,sl1mil(l lind
my onrn standing or l'lll, or any of my \i'nrks :nnl inmrnvmimnts,
they wunhl imnmlinlcly ('Ull('lll(l(' tlmt- tln'rc were pi-nplc in the
ilnm'. and would lln'n ncwr givv m-er till tln'y had found mu out.
in this. oxtrvmily, I wont hurt; (lin-utly to my castle, pnlh'd up the
ladde' aft-er nn', and made all things without. look as wild and as
natural as 1 could.

Then I prvpnrvd mysrlf within, putting myself in a posture ofADVflNTUREB 0F K013114801" 011.0901. 109

defence: [loaded all my eiuinou, as 1 called them, that is to any,
3y muskets, which Were mounted u n in new fortification, and

my pistols, and resolved to defen m se to the last gasp; not
forgetting seriously to commend myse to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of
thc barbarians. 1 continued in this posture about two hours; and
began to be mi hty impatient for intelli nee abroad, for I had
no spins to sen out. After sitting aw lilo longer, and musing
what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in i .
norance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hi ,
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and then pull-
ing the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill; uud pulling out my perspective glass, which Iliad
taken on puriose, I laid me down flat on the ground, and be an
to look for lie place. 1 presently found there were no less 1. an
nine naked savages, sitting rounds small fire they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I an posed, to dress some of their barbar-
ous diet of humzm flesh, w neh they had brought with them, who-
ther alive or dead I could not tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon-
the. shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not easy
to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me too; but
when I considered their coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, l he an, afterwards, to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied thatImight go abroad with safety all the time of the tide
of flood, if they were not on shore before; and havin made this
observation, I went abroad about my harvest work win the more
composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call
it) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before
they went elf, they went a dancing; and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by in glass. I could not perceive, by my
nicest observation, but that t ey were stark naked, and had not the
least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women,
I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and no, I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and two )istols in my fife, and my rent sword by
my side, without a scab aid, and wit all the spec I was able to
make, went away to the hill where I had discovered the first appear-
ance of all; nudes soon as I got thither, which was not in less than
two hours (for I could not go apaco, being so londen with arms as
I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at
that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to
gather, making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight. to me.
especially as, going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror, which the dismal work they had been about had left behind
it, viz. the blood. the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any
more of the savages.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen months'
interval, was very great; I slept unquict, dreamed always fright-
ful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night; in the
day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night,
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it. It was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth dav, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that it blew a very rcat storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and than or, and a very foul night it
was after it. I know not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious
thoughts about my )rcsent' condition, I was surprised with the noise
ot~ a gun, as I thou;y 1t, fired at sea. This was, to he sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before ; tor the
notions this put into my thougnts were quite of another kind. I
started up in the greatest. haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me;
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the verv
moment that a flash of tire bid me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part. of the sea where I was driven down
the current in my boat. 1 immediatelv considered that this must
be some ship in distress, and that. they had some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and tired these guns for signals of distress,
and to obtain help. I had the presence of mind, at that minute, to
think that though '1 could not help them, it mi ht be they might
help me: so I brought to rether all the dry woo I could get at
maid, and making 3 00d handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the
hill. The wood was ry, and blazed freely; and though the wind
'0ch very hard, yet it burnt fairly out: so that I was certain, if
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and no
doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my fire all night long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day.
read the air cleared it , I saw something at a rent distance at. sea,
full cast of the islan , whether a sail or a hull I could not distin'
guish, no, not with my class; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazy also; at least it was so out at sea.

I looked freeuently "t it all that day. and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor;
and being e er, you ma be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in
mv hand, an ran towar s the south side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could
plainly sec, to m great sorrow, the wreck ot a ship, cast away in
the m ht upon t rose concealed rocks which I found when I was out
in my cat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were thepcca-
sion of xnv recovering from the most des crate, hopeless condition
that ever i had been in, in all my life. hus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these men, who-
ever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind blowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily su pese they did not, they must, as I thouziht, have en-
deavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the ielp of their
boat; but their firing ofl' guns for help, es ciale when they saw, as
I imagined, my fire, tilled me with man t noughts : First, I imagined
that upon seeing my light, they might we at themselves into their
boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; at that the sea goin
very high, they minht have been cast away: other times I imagine
that they might rave lost their boat before, as might be the
ease many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or
shi )S in company, who, upon the signals of distress the had made,
a taken them up and carried them off: other times I ancied they
were all ne of to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current t rat I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great
ocean, where there was nothin but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps, they might by this tune be starving, and in a condition to
think of eating one another.Abs--._

SECTION XXI.

HE VISITS THE \VIKECK .\.\'l) (IB'I'AINS MANY STORIES FRO." 11"!-
AGAIN TllleiS "1-" QL'l'l'TlSfl 'l'lll". INLAXJ).

Tim. the last year of my being on 1his island, l nerer knew whether
any were saved out of lhzu- ship or no; and had only the alllietion,
some days alter, to see the corpse of a drowned hey come on shore
ab the end of the island which was llQ'Xl the shipwreck. lle had no
clothes on but, a si-aman's waisleoal., a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; lnu. nothing to direct. me so much
as to guess what. nation lH' was of: he had nothing in his pockets
hut. two pieces-olivighl, and n iohaeeo pipe :7 Ihe last. was to me of
ten times more Value than lhe lirsl.

IL was now calm, and 1 had a great mind to vcnlnre out in my
heat to this wreck, not doubling- hnl. 1 might, find something on
board that might. be useful 10 me; hut that did not altogether
ress me so much, as the possiliilily that (here might. he yet some
iving,r creature on board, whose life ] might not. only save, lnn'
might, by saving that. life, (-mnl'orl. my own to the lasl- degree. And
this thought. clung so to my hearL, that 1 could not he (uiet night
or day, hut. I must venture out in my boat on heard 1 is wreck;
and committing the rest to God's providence, l thout'rht the im-
pression was so strong: upon my mind that it. could not e resisted,
that it must. come from some invisible direction, and that 1 should
be wanting to myself if 'I did not go.

Under the pom-r of this impression, I hastened hack to mycastle,
prepared cvcrylhiug for my voyage took a quantity of bread, a great
pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a home of mm (for I
had still a greal deal of that left) and a basket. 01' raisins; and thusAhvss'runizs or nostxson CRUSOE. - 113

loading myself with everything necessary, I went down to my boat,
got the water out of her, put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home <<rain for more. My second cargo was a great
bag of rice, the umbre a to set up over my head for a shade, onetlier
large ot of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or bar ey-cnkes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a.
cheese: all which, with great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out ; and rowing, or
paddling, the canoe along the shore, calm: at last to the utmost
point of the island on the north-east side.

Having hauled my boat into a. little creek on the shore, I stepped
nut, and set me down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and

 

tanxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage: when, as I was
musing, I Could perceive that the tide was tumed, and the flood
fame on; upon which my going was impracticable for so many
iours.

I resolved, the next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposinn' myself for the night in my canoe, under the great
watch-cont. fmentioncd, Ilmmehed out. I went at a great rate directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came u to it. It was a
dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, bv its buil ing, was Spanish,
stuck fust,j.'tmmcd in between two rocks; ullthe stem andquarter of her
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forcastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with . rent violence, her mainmast
and foremost was brought by the boar , that is to any, broken short
off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and how appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who,
:seoino 1111: coming ,yelped and e1'1i1'd; and as soon as I called him
jumped into the sea to come to me. I took him into the boat, but
found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gaVe hitn a. cake
of 1111' l111-adan1l he devoured it like 11 ravenous oni' that had been
starvinga fortnigrht. in the snow. Ithen rrave the 11001 creature
some. 1111511 11:11.1:1',11ith11h1eh, if Iwould have let him, he would
have burst. himse li Af'tet this, Iwcnt 011 hoa1';1l but the first sight
I met with 11.15 two men 111011 tied 111 the cook 1'00111,or forecastle of

 

the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as
indeed probable, that. when the ship sttuck, it being 111 a st01'1,11 the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the men were.
not able to bear it, and \1 ere. shangled with the constant rushing 111
of the water, as much as if thev had been under 11'ater.1SSes11les
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that. had lil';c nor any
goods, C'ithat. I could see, but. 11111111111113 spoiled hv the water.
I found, however, besides several chests, a little cask full of liq nor,
of about. twenty gallons, \1hich I got into my boat with ntui l1
ditiicnltv. There were seveial mnskcts in the cabin, and a great
powder 110111 with about. {0111' pounds of powder in it: '15 for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left. them, but took the
powder-1101.11 I took a lire-shmel and tongs, which I wanted ex-
tremelv; as also two little biass kettles,a a co met pot to make
chocolate, and a gridirzon and with this cargo, add the dog, I came
11111111, the tide beginning to make home again; and the same evening,
abmit an hour within 11i_1.,rl1t.,I reached the island again, wemy and
fatinjned to the last (l11rvi'ec.I reposcd that night 111 the boat; and
in the 1110mm;' I resolved to harbour what I had got. in my new
cave, and not earrv it home. 1.11 1111' castle. After refreshing myselt,
I got. all my cargo on shore. and began to examine the par't'ichlats.

I l'onnd on ennnving the chest .nnong other thinws some very good
shirts, which were ver welcome to me; and about a dozen and a
half of white linen andkcrchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the
former was also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Upon the whole, Igot very little by this voy-
age that was of an use to me: for, as to some money, 1 had found
I had no manner 0 occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under
my feet; and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted,
but had none on my feet for many years.

I lived in this condition near two years more; all the time filled
with pr jects and desi as, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island; and believe verily, if I had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.

It was one of the nights of the rainy season in March, the four-
aud-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitari-
ness, I was is. mg in my ed awake. I had no uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows:

I ran over the whole histor of my life by abridrrment, as I may
call it, to my coming to this is ad; and also since a]: came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case, since I came
here, I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the first
years of m habitation, with the hfe of anxiety, tear, and care, which
I had live ever since I had seen the print of afoot in the sand.

Then I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years; and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquility, when perha 3 nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approac of night,
had been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of
falling into the hands of cannibals and savages. I would unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my
great Preserver, to whom all t ese unknown deliverances were due.

I made this conclusion, howeVer, that my only way to go about
an attempt for an escape, was, if poasible, to get a savage into my
possession ; and, if possible, it should be one of their risonera
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should btin t ither to
kill; but these thoughts were still attended with this d' culty, that
it was im ossible to effect this without attack' a whole caravan of

.them, an killing them all; and my heart txemb ed at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance.

However, after man disputes with myself, I determined, it
possible, to get one of t e savages into my hands, cost what it would:
so I resolved to put myself upon the watch to see them when they
came on shore. and leave the rest to the event.
ROBINSON RESCUES ONE 014' THEIR CAPTIYES FROM THE SAVAGES,
"71")" I": SAMES FRIDAY, AX!) MAKES HIS SERVANT.

ABOUT :1 year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by
long musing had, as it were, resolved them into nothing, for want.
of an occasion to mt- them into execution), l was surprised, one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on mv side. the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed: and out of my sight. The number of them broke
all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, 01' how to take my measures, to attack
twentv or thirt'ir men single-hamled; so lay still in my castle, per>>
plexed and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for action, it anything had presented. Haring waited a good
while, listening to hear if the)r made. any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set, my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clam-
bered u to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; stand-
ing so, owever, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the
help of my perspective loss, that they were no less than thirty in
number; that they ha a fire kindled. and that they had mostanvenroras or mean cannon. 119

dressed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but
the were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures
an figures, their own way, round the fire.

While 1 was thus looking on them, 1 perceived, by my erspec-
tive, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, w ere, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now brouwht out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall, being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very moment,
this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound,
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly
towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast where my habr
tat-ion was. I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by the whole body. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that, followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when 1 found that he outstri ped them exceedingly in running, and

ained ground of them, so that if he could but hold it for half an
tour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I men-
tioned often in the first part. of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wreteh would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but longing in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, or thereabouts, ended, and ran on with exceedi strength
and swil'tness. When the three persons came to the cree , I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back '11; which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the end. observed that the two
who swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant,
and that I was called plainl by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediatey ran down the ladders with'all
possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
eat of the ladders, as I observed above, and getting up again, with
the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and
having a very short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, hal ooing aloud to him that
llud, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps. as much frightened a!
me as at them; hut I hcckoned with my hand to him to come back;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. I was loth to fire, because 1
Would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too,
the)r would not have easily known what to make of it. Havinv
knocked this fellow down, fihe other who pursued him stopped, as ii
he. had been frightened, and 1 advanced apace towards him : but as
i came nearer, l erceiw-d presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to s mot at me -. so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who tied but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
'lillen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the tire
and noise of my piece. that. he stood stock still, and neither came
foru-'ard nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined to
fly than to come on. I halloocd again to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stopped
again, and then a little further, and then stopped again; and I
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as it' he had been taken
prisoner. and had just been to he killed, as his two enemies were.
I beckoned to him again to come to me, and gave him all the signs
of cneouragcnnuit that I could think of -, and he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling; down every ten or twelve stems, in token of
acknowledgment for having .avcd his life. I smiled at him, and
looked alcasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at
length ie came close to me; and then he kncclcd down again,
kissed the ground. and laid his head num the ground. and taking
me by the loot. set my foot upon his lead: this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to he my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and encouraged him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed hut. stunned with the blow, and biggzm
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some words to
me, and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant. to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five
years. lint there was no time for reflections now ; the savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so tar as to sit up on the
ground, and I perceived that. my savage began to be afraid; but
when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as it' I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
I motion to me to lend him my sword which hung naked in a belt
by my side, which I did He no sooner had it, but he runs to his
enemv, and, at one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no execu-
toner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which Imvssruus or aosmson cnusns. 119

thought ver strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a swor in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will
out off heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in sign of
triumph, and broufi'llt me the sword again, and with abundance of
gestures, which I id not understand, laid it down. But that which
astonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so
far off: so pointing to him, he made sinus to me to let him go to
him; so I bade him go as well as I eoul . When he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning lnm first on one
side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no great quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with
sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
so I made signs to him a aln to do so. He fell to work; and, in
an instant, he had scrape a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, an
covered him; and did so by the other also: I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. 'l'hcn calling him away,
I conveyed him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
farther part of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in n'reat distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs for him to go and lie down to sicep, showing him
a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a blanket upon it,
which I used to sleep 11 on myself sometimes; so the poor creature
iay down and went to 5 cup.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well-made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and wail-shaped, and, as I
reckon. about twenty-six years of age. He had a very ood coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to have some-
thing very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an EurOpeun in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his
forehead very high and large; and a great vrvacity and sparkling
zharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black,
out very tawny; and yet not an uwly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Braziiians and Virginians, and at or natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olive-colour, that had something in it v
agreeable, though not vcr easy to describe. His face was to
and plump; his nose sma] , not flat like the Negroes; a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white as
ivory.

After he had slumbcred, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again, and came out of the-cave to me, for I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the enclosure just by: when he espied me,
he came running to me, laying himself down twain upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankiul disposition, making
a great many anlie gestures to show it. At last, he lays his head
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me
know how he would. serve me as long as he lived. I understood

 

him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to
speak to me ; and, first, T let him know his name should he FRIDAY,
which was the dav I saved his life: 1 called him so for the memory
of the time. I liliewise taught him to 5a},r Master: and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them. T. gave him some milk
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and sop
my bread in if; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which
he quickly complied wilh, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know that I
would give him some clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he
was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had buried
the two men, he pointed exactly to the 5 0t, and showed me the
marks he had made to find them again, to lug signs to me that we
should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I appeared very
angry, expressed my abhorrenec of it, and beckoned with my hand
b him to come away, which he did immediately, with rest submis-
sion. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see ' his enemies
were gone; and pulling out in glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
rlaee where they had been, ut no appearance of them or their
canoes: so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their
two comrades behind them, without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Frida
with me, iving him the sword in his hand, with the how an
arrows at is back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him on one gun for me, and I two for myself ; and away
we marched to t re place where these creatures had been, for I had
a. mind now to get some further intelligence of them. When 1
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk wrthin me, at the horror of the spectacle: indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothinn' of it. The place was covered with human bones, the
ground3 dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been makin there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three sculls, five ands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday, by his sifgns, made me understand that
they brought over four pnsoncrs to_ east upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and that he, int! to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great atlle tween them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of risoners; all which were carried to
several places by those who taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those
the brounht hither.

caused Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, and flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a. heap, and make a
great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst
not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know that I
would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair
of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I
mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a jerkin of
goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I was now grown s
tolerable good tailor); and I gave him a good cap, which I made oi
nare's skm, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus he

1
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is
true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at first: wearing the
drawers was ver awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
gelled his shoukers, and the inside of his arms; but after a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself
to them, he took to them at length very well.

The next day after 1 came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first. As there was a door or
entrance there into my carve, 1 made a formal framed door--ease,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the inside, I

 

barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Frida

sonld in no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wa .
without making' so much noise in getting over that it must needs
woken me: for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickneSs with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a. kind of trap door,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a "rent noise :
as to weapOns, I took them all into my side every nig it. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; without pas-
sions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly ohliged and engaged--his very
Ifl'ections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and]
dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God. in his providence,
and in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same alfections, the same sentiments of-kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same series of grati-
tude, sincerity, fihelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
receavinghgood, that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer t em occasions of exerting these they are as ready, nay, more
ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed,
than we me.

With my new companion I was featly delighted, and made it my
business to teach him everything t at was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; at especially to make him speak, and
nnderstnnd me when I s oke: and he was the aptest so olar that
ever was; and particular y was so merry, so constantl diligent, and
so pleased when he could but understand me, or m 'e me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could I have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
Ins-or to remove from the place where I lived.
ROBINSON ISSTRUCTS AND CU'lLlZES HIS MAN FRIDAY--ENDEAVOUR
TO GIVE HIM AN IDEA 0F CHRISTIANITY.

AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought-
that, in order to bring Friday 011' from his horrid \ra of feeding,
and from the relish of a eannihal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh ; so I took him out with me one morning to the woods.
1 went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but. as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I
caught hold of Friday;---" Hold," said I; " stand still ;" and made
sirrns to him not to stir: immediately I presented my )ieee, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who ha , at a distance,
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but. did not know, nor
could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid 1 shot at, or erceived 1 had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whet er he was not
wounded, and, as I found presently, thought 1 was resolved to kill
him : for he came and knecled down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great many things I did not understand; but I could easily
see the meani 0' was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon foun a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which 1 had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, 1 saw
a grea.' fowl, like a hawk, sittinrr upon a tree, within shot; so to let
Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it
had been a. hawk , I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and
to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall,
1 made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird:
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediatel he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwit standing
all 1 had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me ut an thing into the un, but thought that there
must be some won erful mid of death an destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, or bird, or any thing near or far 011'; and
the astonishment this created in him was such, as could not wear
oil' for a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after; but he would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which. as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not
to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
i pointed to him to run and fetch the bird 1 had shot, which he did,
but sta ed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttered away a good distance from the place where she fell: how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought. her to me; and as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, 1 took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that
1 might be ready for any other mark that mi ht present; but
nothing more offered at that time: so I brought ome the kid, and
the same evening I took the skin ofi', and cut it out as well as]
could; and havmg a pot lit for that purpose, 1 boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. AfterI had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very lad
of it, and liked it ver well: but that which was strangest to rim,
was to see me out sat with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his month, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, wash'
his mouth with fresh water after it- on the other hand, I too
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I pretented to spit m
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do; he would never cure for salt with his meet or in hit
broth; at least, not a great while, and then but very little.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, 1 was resolved
to least him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did,
by harem? it before the fire on a string, as I had seen many people
do in Eng and, setting two olee up one each side of the fire, and
one. across on the top, an tying the string to the cross stick,
lcttin the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much:
but w en he came to taste the flesh, he took so manv ways to tell
me how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him ; and at
last he told me, as well as he could, that he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

_ The neat day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and
Slftlng it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he

 

 

soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had
seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of
it : for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that having two months to feed instead
of one, Imust provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a
larger quantity of corn than I used to do: so I marked out a larger
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before,
in which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was for; that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that I might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared
very sensible of that part, and let me know that he thought I
had much more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I would tell
him what to do.summons 0: aosmsox causes. 19!

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this plum
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names in
almost eve thing I had occasion to call for, and of every lace
had to sen him to, and talked a great deal to me; so t at, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about
speech." Besides the lcasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the fol ow himself: his Pimple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every day, and I began really to
ove the creature; and, on his side, [believed he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.

I had a mind cnce to try if he had any hankermo inclination to
his own country again; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him "whether
the nation that he belo ed to never eon uered in bottle?" At
which he smiled, and sai , "Yes, yes, we a ways light the better . "
that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began
the following discourse :--

MAern. "You always fight the better? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday?"

FRIDAY. " nation beat much, for all that."

MAern. "Him best? If your nation beat them, how came
run to be taken?"

FRIDAY. "They more money than my nation in the place where
.ne Was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand."

MAs'rnn. "But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?"

FRIDAY. "They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time."

MAs'rnn. "Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?"

FRIDAY. " Yes, my nation eat man's too; eat all up."

MASTER. "Where do they on them?"

FRIDAY. " Go to other place, w ere they think."

MASTER. " Do they come hither? "

FRIDAY. " Yes, yes, they come hither; eome other else place."

Mssmn. " Have ou been here with them?"

FRIDAY. "Yes, I ave been here ; " (gpoints to the N.W. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their si e.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had fomerly been among
the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the
island, on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for:
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that
side, being the same I fomcrly mentioned, he presently knew theI28 auvsarms or aosmson meson.

place, and told me he was there once when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in English, but
be numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing
to me to tell them over.

1 have told this passage, because it introduces what follows; that
after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way our to sea, there was a current and wind, always one
way in the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to b:- no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
but. I afterwards understood it: was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonolzo, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this
land which I ereeircd to the W. and N.W. was the great island
Trinidad, on t e north point. of the mouth of the river. I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he know,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations ofhis sort. of people, but could get no other
name than Carihs: from whence I easily understood, that these were '
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the menth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and on-
wards to St. Martha. He told me that u a great we beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of t e moon, w ieh must be
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; arm
that. they had killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all
the nations, from father to son.

1 inquired if he could tell me how I might; go from this isumd an:
get. among those white men; he told me: " Yes, yes, you may go in
two canoe." I could not understand what he meant, or mane him
describe to me what he meant by two canoe; till, at last, with great
ditliculty, I found he meant. it. must be in a large boat, as big as two
canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well: and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my esca c from
this place, and that this poor savage mi ht be a means to he 1) me.

During the long time that. Friday ha now been with me, and that
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to
lay a foundation of religions knowledge in his mind ; particulany I
asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked him who was his
father; but I took it up by another handle, and asked him who
made the sea, the ground we. walked on, and the hills and woods?
He told me, it was one old Benamnekee, that lived beyond all; he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea. or the land, than the moon or
the stars. 1 asked him then, if this old person had made all things,
whv did not all thin s worship him? He looked very ave, and
with a crl'ect look of innocence, said: " All things say 5r to him."
I askc him " if the cople who die in his country went away any
where?" He said, " {'cs: they all went to Bennmuckee;" then I
asked him " whether these they ate up went thither too?" He
said, "Yes."

From these thinrrs I began to instruct him in the knowledve of
the true God: I tdld him that the great M' her of all things lived
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that he governed the world

 

by the same power and providence by which he made it; and that
he was omnipotent, and could do ever thing for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and 1; us, by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the
manner of making our prayers to God, and his being able to hear us,
even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Ben-
amuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said: "No ;" they never went that were young men; none went
thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowookakee: that is,
as I made him explain to me, their religious, or clerg ; and that
they wont to say 0 (so he called saying prayers), an 'then came
back, and told them what Benamnekee said.
1 endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains
to say 0 to their god Beuamuckee was a chest: and that their
bringing word from thence what he said was much more so ; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be
an evil spirit; and then I entered into along discourse about. the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
strutageins he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he
had a secret. access to our passions and to our attentions, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so us to cause us even to be our
own temptcrs, and run upon our destruet ion by our own choice.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
neknofledge, what I believe all that. act upon the same principle
will find, that in laying things open to him, 1 rcallv informed and
instructed myself in runny things that either 1 did not now, or nod
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally to my
mind upon searching into them. for the information of this poor
savage: and 1 had more afi'ection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever l felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wreteh was the better for me or no, 1 had great reason to be thank-
l'nl that ever he came to me; my ief sat lighter upon me; my
habitation grew comfortable to me eyond measure; and when l
reflected, that in this solitary life -vhieh I had been confined to, I
had not. only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek
to the hand that had brought me here, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for ought I
knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret. joy ran throurvh every part of m soul, and
l frequently rejoiced that ever 1 was lbrought to this p e, which
i had so niten thought the most dreadful of all aflictions that could
possibly have befallen me.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO PRIDAY'S
COUNTRY--~THEIR SCHEME I'REVENTBD BY THE ARRIVAL 01' A
PARTY OF SAVAGBS.

Ar'rnn Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak pretty fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I ac uainted him with my own
history, or at least so much of it as re atcd to my coming to this
place; how I had lived here, and how lone; I let hnn into the mys-
wry, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully
delighted with; and 1 made him n belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in ; and in the lrog, instead of
u hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with in whole strength then; but was now
fallen almost all to pieces. pon seeing this boat, Fh'ichy stood
musinv a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was
he stu ied upon? At last, he says : " Me see such boat like come
to place at my nation." I did not understand him 3 00d while;
but, at last, when I had examined farther into it, I an etstood by
him, that a boat such as that had been, came on shore upon the
country where he lived ; that is, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast awav upon their coast, and the
boat might get loose, and drive ashore ;hnt was so dull, that I never
once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they might come; so I only inquired after a
descri tion of the boat.

Fri ay described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added with some warmth. " We
save the white mans from drown." Then Ipresently asked him, if
there were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? " Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many?
He told u on his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became
of them; 1 e told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast
away in the Sight of my island, as now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, 1 inquired of him more criti-
cally what was become of them; he assured me they lived still there
that. they had been there about four years; that the savages let them
alone, and gave them vietnals to live on. I asked him how it came
to pass they did not kill them, and eat. them, He said, "No, they
make brother with them ;" that is, as Iunderstood him, atruce; and
then he added, " They no cat- mans but when make the war tight :"
that '3 to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of
going over with him to the continent, that I told iim we would go
and make a boat as big as that, and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him? He asked me again, " Why you
angry mad with Friday? W hat me done ?" I asked him what he
meant? I told him I was not angry with him at all. " No angry?"
says he, repeating the words severaltimes; " Why send Friday home
away to my nation ? "--" Why," says I, " Friday, did not on sa you
wished you were there ?"--" Yes, yes," says he, " wish he . otht ere ;
no wish Friday there, no master there." Ina word, he would not think
ol'goiug there without. me. "I go there, Friday l" says I; "What shall I
do there 1"" He returned very quick upon me at this : " You do great
deal much good," says he ; " you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and live new lil'e."--"Alasl
Friday," says I, " thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."----" Yes, yes," says he, " you teachce me good,
you teachee them good."--" No, no, Friday," sa '3 l, " you shall
without me, leave me here to live by myself, as . did before." Id:
looked confused again at that word; and runuin to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, an gives it to me. "What
must I do with this?" sa 3 I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he.
" What must I kill you or?" said I in. He returns ver u'ek,
" What you send Friday away for? ' 'a a kill Friday, no sen riday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word, I so lainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a firm reso ution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, b all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that nothing shoul art him from me, so I found all
the foundation of his desire to go to is own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the (people, and his hopes of In doing them good;
a thing, which as I he no notion of myself, so had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, founded
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were
seventeen bearded men there: and, therefore, without any mor
delay, I went to work .with Friday, to find out a real; tree proper to
fell, and make a large peria , or canoe, to un ertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in t e island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the
main thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first. At last, Friday itched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much better than I what {ind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, exce t
that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and t 6
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily: and
in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost as near a fortnight's time to get
her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water;
but when sne was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
ease

I was near two months rigging and fittuig my mast and sails; for
I finished them very com lete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, ' we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity 0 such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains
to do it, that at last I brought it to pass; though, considering the
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost lib
almost as much labour as making the boat.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my
design returned with the fair weather, 1 was preparing dai y for the
voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay by a large quantity of
provrsions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing we generally got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running hack, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and

 

before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, " Oh master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! O h:\d'."--" What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. "O yonder, there, " says he, "one, two, three canoe: one,
two, three l" By this way of s making, I concluded there were six;
but, on inquiry, I found it was nit three. "W'ell Friday, " says I,
" do not be frightened t" So I heartened him up as well as I could 2
however, 1 saw the poor fellow was most. terribly scared: for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the. poor fellow trembled so that
I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," says I, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them." "Can you fight, Friday F"---" Me shoot,"
says he; " but there come many great number."----"I\'o matter for
tha ," said I, again, "our guns will fright them that we do not
kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand b me; and do 'ust as I bid him. He
said, "Me die, when you bid ie, master." 0 I went and fetched a
good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a. husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drank it, I
made him take the two fowliu -picces, which we always carried, and
loaded them with large swan-s lot, as big as small istol-bullets ; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two 5 ugs, and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side; and gave
Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective glass, and went up to the Side of the lull, to see what

could discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were

 

onevand--twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast indeed! but nothi
more than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I observe
also, that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his esca e, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low,
and where a t 'ck wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to
Friday, and told him that I was resolved to no down to them and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stand by me. _He had now

ot over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised With the dram
Ihad given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die. _

In this fit of fury, I tool; and divided the arms which I had

charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one istol to stick in
his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and took one pistol,
and the other three s myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small ottlc of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullets; and, as to orders, 1 charged
him to kee close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any-
thin , till bid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak a word.
In his posture, Ifetchcd a compass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might
come within shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had
seen, by my glass, it was easy to do. .

I entered the wood; and, with all possible wariuess and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, 1 marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one
corner of the wood, lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showinw him a great tree, which was just at the cor-
ner of the wood, 1 ba e him go to the free, and bring me word if he
could see there lainly what they were doing. 110 did so; and came
Immediately bac ' to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed
there; that they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, 3 little
from them, which, he said they would kill next, and which fired all
the very soul Within me. He told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the ver naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, 1 saw plain y, by my
glass, :1 white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
mnds and his feet tied with flags or things like rushes, and that he
was an European and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place where 1 was, which bygoing a little
way about, I saw 1 might come at undiscovered, and that thcn 1
should be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my passiorr,
though 1 was indeed enraged to the highest. degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till 1 came to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards

   

" -- i?.SSdeg'SSri

. 9m
ROBINSON RELEASES A SPANIARD--IBIDAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER
--ACCOMMODATION PROVIDED FOR THESE NEW GUESTS--WHO

ARE AFTERWARDS SENT TO LIBERA'IE THE OTHER SPANIARDS--
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH VESSEL.

I HAD now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the 001' Christian, and bring him
perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stooping down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday--" Now, Friday," said
I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," said I,
" do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothin ." So I set down one
of the muskets and the fouling-piece upon t 6 ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took in aim at
the savages, bidding him to do the like ; then asking him i he was
ready, he said, "Yes." " Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that
he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my
side, I killed one, and wounded two. The were, you may be sure,
in dreadful consternation; and all of t em who were not hurt
jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediate] know which way
to run, or which we to look, for they knew not rom whence their
destruction came. ii'riday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I
had bid him, he mi ht observe what I did; so, as soon as the first
shot was made, I tirew down the piece, and took up the fowling-
piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me cock and present; he did
the same again. "Are on ready, Friday?" said I. " Yes," says he.
" Let fly, then," says i, "in the name of God! " And with that I
fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did'Fridav; and as our

K
ieces were now loaden with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol
linllets, we found only two drop, but so many were wounded, that
they run about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all blood ,
and most of them miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly
after, though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking
up the musket which was yetloaden, " follow me ;" which he did with
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and running as fast as I could, which by the way was not. very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as 1 said, lying upon the beach, or shore,

 

between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers,
who were just goingr to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
qumpcd into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.

turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and fire at them ; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thou ht he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall of a heap into the oat, though I saw two of
them up again uicklv: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the third], so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as
if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I ulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that bound the poor victim; oosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was.
He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a iece of read which he ate. Then I asked hin
what countryman e was : "Espagniole ;" and being a little recovered,
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. " Si nor," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, " we will ta afterwards, but we must
fight now; if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully; and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like afury, and had out two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot: and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they had
received, so the other two i'cll with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and
sword ; so I called to Fridav, and bade him run 11 to the tree from
whence we first fired and fetch the arms which lay t ere that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
my musket, I sat down In self to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when t ey wanted. While I was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same-like weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and
brave as could bei ined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had cilifiiim two great wounds on his head; but the
savage being a stout, lust fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him down, being faint, an was wringing my sword out of his hand;
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to help
him, could come near him.

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in his hand but is hatchet; and with that be
dis etched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first,
and) fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun I ve him one of the fowling-pieoes, with
which he pursued two of t c savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both ot from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and kille one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might, off to
lhosc who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe. with one
wounded, that we know not whether he died or no, were all that
escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as follows: thrce killed at our first shot from the tree; two
killed at the next shot -, two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed
by Fridav of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed b the Spaniard; {our killed, being found dro ped
here and there of t eir wounds, or killed by Fridt ' in his disuse
of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one woun ed if not dead.
--Twenty-oue in all.

Those who were in the canoe worked hard to at out of gun-shot,
and though Friday made two or three shots at (- 1cm, 1 did not find
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and mrsue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the

 

canoes, and devour us by mere multitude ; so I consented to pursue
them by sea, and running to one of their canoes, l jumped in, and
bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe Iwas surprised
to find another oor creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, or the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and
had been tied so long, that he had reall;r but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak, but groaned most iteously, believing, it seems, still,
that he was only unbound to be ki led. When Frida came to him,
I bride him speak to him, and tell him of his dc ivemnce; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a drain;
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to ave seen how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
'umped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,

eat his own face and head; and then sang and 'nmped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while efore I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to ex resa how it moved me to see what
ecstacy and filial affection ha worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and on his being delivered from death; nor indeed
can I describe half the extravaganeies of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many times: when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his hosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ancles which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and ehafed and rubbed them with his
hands: and I, erceiving what the matter was, gave him some rum
out (pf my hott e to rub them with, which did them a great deal of
gen .

This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happy for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could have got quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose that their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.

But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but after
[thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he
came jumpin and laughing, and leased to the highest extreme;
then I asked 'm if he had given is father any bread. He shook
his head, and said, " None; ugly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of a ittle pouch I carried on purpose; I
also gave him a dram for himsclf, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been hewitchcd, he ran at such a
rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that I ever saw: I
say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in
an instant; and though I called, and' hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer I found his pace slacker, because he had something in his
hand. When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an'earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and
that he had two more cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave
me. but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said "Yes ; " and 1 bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed very weak, and was reposmg himself upon a green lace
under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very sti , and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face
with all tie tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum,
as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, eve two minutes, or
Perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his ead about to see
if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him
sitting: and at last he found that he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
ness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the
ground as he went; but when he came he only found he had lain
himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me pre.
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him
to our dwelling, where I would take care of him; but Friday, a
lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the boat, and set him down softl upon the side
or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside 0 it; and then,
lifting him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and re
sently step ing out again, launched the boat off, and paddle it
along the s ore faster than 1 could walk, though the wind blew
pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
saving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he assed me, I Spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
tol me, " Go fetch more boat: " so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor

Friday knew not what to do. _

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us. But when we
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and
I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again; and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a ver handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bong s of trees,
being in the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made

 

them two beds of such thingirls as I had, viz. of good rice straw,

with blankets laid upon it, to
each bed. ~
' My island was now peopled, and I thou ht myself rich in sub-
iccts ; and it was a merry reflection, whichI frequently made, how
fire a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were erfcctly subfcted: I was absolutely lord and
lawglver; they a owed their 'ves to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
diiferent- religions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was
a Pagan and a cannibal, and the S aniard was a Papist: however,
I allowed liberty of conscience t roughout my dominions.---But
this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I

'e on, and another to cover them, on144 mummy: or Ionirsor cwsoz.

ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be killed; when I cutoff the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, 1 set Friday to work to
boilinty and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I assure you,
of flegh and broth, having put some barley and rice also into the
broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no the within
111 inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
ta le for them, i sat down, and ate my dinner also with them, and, as
well as 1 could, cheered them and eucour nod them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, arid: indeed, to the Spaniard
too: for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the Canoes, and go and fetch our mnskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left u )on the place of battle;
and, the next day, I ordered him to go and my the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
otl'ensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, and which I could not think of doing myself; nay,
1 could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which he
)unetually performed, and eflaced the very appearance of the savages

eing there; so that when 1 went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we
might ex cat a return of them, with a power too reat for us to
least. is first opinion was that the savmes in tie boat could
never live out the storm that blew that night they went. all, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven soutli to those other shores,
where they were as sure to he devoured as they were to be drowned,
if they were cast away: but, as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully fri htcncd with the manner of their beinu
attacked, the noise, an the fire, that he believed they would teh
the (people they were all killed by thunder and lightnine, not by the
ban of man; and that the two which appeared, viz. f'riday and l,
were two heavenly spirits, or fnries, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: because he
heard them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it
was im ossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak trunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting u the hand, as
was done now: and this old savage was in the rigit; for, as I
understood since, by other bands, the savages never attempted to go
over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified by the accounts
given by those four men (for, it seems, the did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that one anted inland would be
destroyed by fire from the gods, This, however, I knew not; and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my ard, with all my army: for, as there were
new four of us, I we d have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes a peering, the fear of
their coming wore 01?, and I began to take my ormer thoughts of a
voyage to the main into consideration; being likewise assured b
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts werea
little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Flats, to the Havannah,
being directed to leave their loadin there, which was chiefi hides
and silver, and to bring back what 'uropean goods the con (1 meet
willLthere; that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of anothzr wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on
the cannibal coast, where they ex ected to have been devoured
every moment. He told me the rad some arms with them, but
the were perfectly useless, for t at they had neither powder nor
bal , the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provrde themselves
some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no desi n of making their escape. He said they
had many consultations 8. out it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their ocuncils
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receive a. proposal from me, which might tend towards an
esca e; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told rim, with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-us
of me, if I put my life in their hands, for that gratitude was no m-
hcrent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they did
by the advent oes they expected. _

He answere with a great deal of candour and ingeuuousness,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible oi
it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of us any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; an that, if I
pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and discourse With
them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer; that
no would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, the!
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain : and that they should swear, upon the holy sacraments and
gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as that 1
should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and abso-
lutely bv my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as
' intended; and that he would bring a contract for them, under
their hands, for that purpose.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, If
possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much prudence
in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, on the other hand, that I
could not but he very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put 01!
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case
was thus: He had been with us now about a. month, during which
timcI had let him see in what manner I had rovided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my sup ort; am he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice 1 had la! up; which, though it was
more than suflicicnt for myself, yet it was not. sudicient, without
good husbandry, for my family, now it we: increased to four; but
much less won d it he suflieicnt if his countrymen, who were, as he
said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and least of all wouldit
be suflicient to \'ictual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voy--
age to any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow,
and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a. temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one dilliculty into an-
other. " You know," says he, " the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even
against God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so scasonablcyand his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as l
was satisfied with his fidelity : so we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-tune, we had got as
inch land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
bushels ol' barle on, and sixteen Jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed we ad to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves

ley suflicient for our own food, for the six months that we had
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we so:
our seed aside for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
goats as much as I could; and, for this gurnose, I made Friday and
the Spaniard go out one day, and mysel with Friday the next day
(for we took our turns), and by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with tie rest; for whenever we shot the
(bun, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on. I caused such a ro-
(ligious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I believe, ha we
been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
have filled sixty 01' eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a
great part of our food, and was very good living, too, I assure you,
for it is exceedingly nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the

 

most lentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enougi to answer our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley
we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in rtoportion of the rice; which was. store
enough for our food to tie next harvest, though all the Sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me ; or if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to have
carried us to any' part of the world, that is to say, any part of Ame-
rica. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wickerwarc, viz. teat baskets, in
which we kept it; and the S )aniard was very han y and dexterous
at this part, and often blame me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having a full suprly of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard eave to go over to the main. to see
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave
him a strict charge not to bring any man with him who would not
first swear, in the. presence of himself and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, tight with, or attack the )crson he should find
in the island, who was so kind as to send for t rem in order to their
deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command ; and that this should be put
in writing, and simicd with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when Iinew they had neither pen nor ink, was a ques-
tion which we never asked. Under these Instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went. away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather were brought

 

in, when they came as prisoners to he devouredhy the savages: 1
gave each of them a musket, with a fireloek on it, and about eight
charges of powder and ball, charging them to he very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but. upon urgent occasions. .
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in
View of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days.
I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, sutfieicnt tor
themselves for many days, and sutiicient. for all the Spaniards for
about eight days' time; and wishing them a good vovage, I saw

them go; agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out:
at their return, by which 1 should know them again, when they
camc back, at a distance, before they came on shore. They went
away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of
days, after 1 had once lost it, I could never recover it. again; nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to e sure 1
was right; though, as it proved, when 1 afterwards examined my
account, 1 found I had kept a true reckonnre,r of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not
perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they are come! " I
jumped up, and, regardless of dancer, I went out as soon as I could
get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
by this time grown to a very thick wood ; I say, regardless of dan-

 

ger, I went without my arms, which it was not my custom to do;
but I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently
saw a boat about a league and a half distance, standing in for the
shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing fair to hrinnr them in: also I observed presently, that theyr
did not come from that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I called Frida in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looke for, and
that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see
what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer without being
' discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my e e
plainlv discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues an a
nlf distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to he an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion ] was in ; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to belich was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as I
cannot describe ; but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me--
I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what bust-
ness an English ship could have in that part of the world, since it
was not the way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them
in there, as in distress ; and that if they were really English, it. was
most probable that they were here upon no good design; and that I
had better continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

I had not kept myself .ong in tms posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at.
for the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts, hut run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy tor me; for other-
wise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have. beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plun-
dered me of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully satis-
fied they were E1 lishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutc , but it did not prove so, there were in all
eleven men, whereof three 1 found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners; one of
the three I could perceive using the most assionate gestures of
entrcaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kinrlol' extravagance; the
other two, 1 could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
1 was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as
well as he could, " 0 master! you see English mans eat prisoner as
well as savage inans."----" Why, Friday," says I, "do you think they
are going to eat them then P "--" Yes," says Friday, " they will 88*
them." " No, no," says I, "Friday; I am afraid they will murder
them. indeed, but you may be sure they will not eat them "
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the three prisoners should he killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift 11 his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen
call it, or sword, to str' e one of the poor men ; and I expected to
see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was one with him, or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered wit in shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms the bad man
them 1 but it fell out to my mind another way. AfterI d observe
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed that the three other men

 

.. . .. A... h ' of."
> (E. --=~ _.,_ :<<gm' ,

had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, ver pensxve, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of t 6 first time when I came on shore, anp
barren to look about me : how I gave myself over for lost; how
w' dly I looked around me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and
how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild
beasts. As I knew nothing that night of the supply'l was to re-
ceive by the providential driving of the ship nearer t e land by the
storms and tide, by which I have been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so thcse three oor desolate men know nothing how eertam
of deliverance and supp y they were. So little do we see before us
in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the areal: Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their

deliverance by the means bv which they seem to be brought to their
destruction.
 

SECTION XXVI.

ROBINSON DISCOVER HIMSELF TO THE ENGLISH CAPTAIN--ASSETS
HIM. IN REDUCING HIS MUTINOUS CREW-- WHO SUBMIT T0 HIM.

IT was just at the to of high water when these people came on
shore; and partly whi e they rambled about to see what kind of a
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground. They had left two men in the boat, who, as 1 found after-
wards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them waking a little sooner than the other, and finding the
boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the
heat : but it was past all their strenrrth to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are
perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they ave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; and ].5 heard
one of them say aloud to another, callino' them 011' from the boat,
" Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? s ie'll float next tide: " by
which I was fully continued in the main inquiry of what country-
men they were. All this while I kept myself very close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the till; and very glad I was to think
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no'less than ten hours
before the boat could float again, and by that time it would be dark,mvns'runns or sunrises cnusos. 153

md I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I fitted myself
up for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun,
to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-picces, and
I gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I
had my formidable goats' skin coat on, with the eat on I have
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my be t, and a
gun upon each shoulder.

I t was my dcsinn, as I said above, not to have made an attempt
till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the heat 0 the day,
I found that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any 'of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing ot' their condition; immediately I marched in the figure as
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not makino quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did. I came as near t iem undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
" What are ye, gentlemen?" They started at the noise; but were
ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I
Eereeived them just going to ilv from me, when I spoke to them in

nglish: " Gentlemen," said I, " do not be surprised at me; per-
haps you may have a friend near, when you did not expect 1t."
" lie must he sent directly from Heaven then," said one of them
very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me;
"for our condition is past the help of man."---"All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I: " But can you put a stranger in the way how
to help you? for you s em to be in some great distress. I saw you
when you landed; and when you seemed> to make supplication to
the hrutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face. and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, "Is it a real man or an
angel?"--" Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; " if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
ai~xnedafter another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you
see I have one servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell
as freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"--" Our case,"
said he, " sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so
near us; hut, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men

L
have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murder me ; and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a. passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it."--" Where are these brutes,
your enemies? " said I: " Do you know where they are gone? "--
" There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us all."------"llave they any
fire-arms '9" said Y. He answered, "They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat."----" Well then," said I, "leave the
rest to me; I. see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them
all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that. it was scarce safe to

 

show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were?
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. " Well," says I,
" let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.

" Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me ? " He anticipated
my pro 052113, by telling;r me, that. both he and the ship, if recovered,
should e wholly directed and commanded 1) me in every thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him; and the two
other men said the same. " Well," says I, " my conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island with me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all occasion, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be governed
by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered.
you will carry me andmy man to England, passage free."

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable
demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowled
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. "Well then." said ,
" here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball: tell me
next what you think is pro er to be done." He showed me all the
testimonies of his gratitu e that he was able, but offered to be
wholly guided b me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but t e best method I could think of was to fire 11 on
them at once, as they la , and if any was not killed at the rst
voile , and ofi'ered to an mit, we might save them, and so put it
who y upon God's providence to direct the shot." He said very
modestly, "that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it: but
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors
of all the mutiny in the 5 ip, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all." "Well then," says I, "necessxty
legitimates my advice, for it is the on] way to save our lives.
However, seeing him still cautious of s eddin blood, I told him
they should 0 themselves and manage as they ound convenient."

In the mi dle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him " if
either of them were the heads of the mutiny?" He said "no."
" Well then," said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest esca e you, it is our fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket {had given im in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
in his hand; the two men who were with him going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they tired; I mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own iece. They had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, tiat one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other ver much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, an called eagerly for help to
the others; but the captain ste ping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help, he should c upon God to forfi've his villany;
and with that wor knocked him down with the stoc of his musket,
so that he never s 015% more; but there were three more in the
company, and one 0 them was also slightly wounded. By this time
I was come; and when they saw their danger. and that it was in
vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they \rOuld 've him any assurance of
their ebhorrcnce of the treachery they ha been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards
in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They

ave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
esircd, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which 1 was not against, only that I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were on the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her and bring away the oars and
sails, which they did: and by and by three straggling men, that
were (happily for them) parted from the rest, came back upon
hearing the guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also;
and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
mother's circumstances; I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole
collection of wonders, it aifccte-d him deeply. But when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I secured to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and
he could not speak a word more. After this communication was at
an end, I carried him and his two men into my apartment, lcadin
them in 'ust where I came out, viz. at the top of the house, where
rcfrcshe them with such provisions as 1 had, and showed them all
the contrivances 1 had made, during my long, long inhabiting of
that lace.

i 1 showed them, all 1 said to them, was perfectly amazing; but
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having beer.
now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was
impassable in any part of it, but at that one side where 1 had reserved
my little winding passage into it. I told him this was my castle and
my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither 1 could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him
that too another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there
were still stx-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a
cursed cons iracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the
law, would )0 hardened in it now by desperation. and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought to the
gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
coronies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with
so small a number as we were.

1 mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, somethin was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on boar into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
destroyinw us. Upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a
little whilh the ship's crew, wondering what had become of their
comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat, to look for them: and that then, perhaps, they migh
come armed, and he too strong forus; this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
olf ; and taking everythin out of her, leave her so far useless as not
to be fit to swim; aceor ingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board out of her, and whatever also we found there.

Then we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if the her!
some strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry 0 the

oat.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high, that the tide would
not float her off at high-watermark, and besides, had broke a hole
in her bottom too big to be nickly stopped, and were musing what
we should do, we heard the s_ ip lire a gun, and saw her make a wait
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other signals for
the boat. At last when all their signals and firing proved fruitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my lasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we ound, as the ap reached, that there were no less then ten men
in her, and that t ey rad fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, We had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces ,
because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other
best, they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had landed, and where the boat lay; by this means, I say,
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he said there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too pot'erful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were
past the operation of fear; that seeing almost every condition that
could he was better than that which we were supposed to he in, we
might to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would
he sure to be u deliverance.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the
ship, considered of so arating out prisoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them etiectually. Two of them, of Whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to m cave, were they where remote enough,
and out of danger of heing heard or discovered, or of finding their
way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here
they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and promised them
if they continued there quietly, to ive them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted t ieir escape, they should he put
to death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their con<<
fincment with patience, and were very thankful that they had such
good usage as to have provisions and light 1th them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept

inionod, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust. them:
hut the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us; so with them and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said that there were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other bunt lay, they ran
their boat into the beach, and came on shore, hauli the boat up
after them, which I was glad to see; for I was al'rai' they would
rather have 1th the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able
to seize the boat. Being' on shore, the first thing- they did, they
ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to see they were under
a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her,
and a great hole in her oottom. After they had mused awhile upon
this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions hear, but all was
to no purpose; then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley
of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring ; but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our kee ing, though they heard it we).
enough, yet durst 've no answer to t cm. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that, as the told us afterwards, they resolved
to go all on board again to their s 'p, and let them know that. the
men were all murdered, and the ong-boat stared; acocordingly,

PS1323; immediately launched their boat again and gnt'nll of them an
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.

They had not been long put 011' with the boat, but we perceived
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and 0 up into
the country to look for their fellows. This was a great ' appoint-
ment to us, for now we were at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us, if we let the
boat escape; because they would then row away to the ship, and

 

then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the shi would be lost. However we had no remedy but
to wait and see w at the issue of things might resent.' The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remains in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait
for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat. Those who came on shore kept close together, marehino
towards the to of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and
we could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad if they we d have come nearer to us, so
that we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
farther off, that we ' ht have come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow oimfiie hill, where the .eould see a great way into
the valleys and woods, which lay tower the north-east part, andMO wramnns or nonmemr entrant.

<<here the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were.
weary ; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor
for from one another, they sat down together under a tree, to con-
sider of it. Had they thought (it to have gone to sleep there, as the
other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell Whit the danger was they had to fear.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, viz. that pcrha s they would all fire a voile again, to en-
deavour to make their to ows hear, and that we shoul all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without blood~
shed, I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this even did not happen; and we lay still a longtime, very
irresolufe what course to take. At. length I told them there would
be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they dial not
return to the bout, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the
boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very
impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, alter long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship again,
give their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and
were for going back aoain; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoughts, was read} to sink at the a prehensions of it: but I
presently thourrht of a stratagem to lerclh them back agnin, and
which answered my end to a Little. I ordered Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savryres came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at ahout half a mile dis-
tance, I bade them hulloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till
they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard
!he seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then keep'
i131 out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
it ooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as]
directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they resently heard them, and answering, run along
the shore westward: towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could
not get over, and called for the boat to come no and set them over;
As, indeed, I expected. -When they had set themsetves over, I
observed that the boat being one a good way into the creek, and,"
it were, in a harbour within t is land, they took one of the three men
out of her, to along with them, and left only two in the boat,
naving fastened or to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was what I wished for ; and immediately leaving Friday and the cup-
iain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creek out of their sight, we sur riscd the two men before they
were aware; one of them lying on t to shore, and the other being in
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking,
and going to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, and knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments
to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crow, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield, but after-
wards to join very sincerely with us. In the mean time, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew (hen), by hallooing and answering, from one hill to another,
and from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them,
but left them where they were rerv sure they could not reach back to
the boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also, by the time they came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was
several heurs after Friday came back to me before they came back
to their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along; and could
also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and not able to come any taster, which was very welcome news to
us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast agrotmd in the
crock, the tide ebbcd out, and their two men gone. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.

They had not been lon in that posture, when the boatswain, who
was the principal ringleader of the mutin , and had now shown llinr
self the. most dejected and dispirited 0 all, came walking towards
thmn, with two more of the crew; the captain was so eaoer at having
this principal rogue so much in his power, that he could5 hardly have

atience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only
reard his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their foot, let. fly at them. The boatsw-Jn was
killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in the body, and fell
just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediate) advanced
with my whole army, which was now eitrht men, viz. myse , general-
issimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; tie captain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that. they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if 1 could brin" them to
a parley, and so might f' "mps reduce them to terms; whic I fell out
just as we desired; fo:, indeed, it. was easy to think, as their condi-
tion then was, they would be willing,r tr *apitulate. So he calls oul.
as loud as he cauld, to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith 5"
Tom Smith answered immediately, "Is that Robinson F" For it
seems, he knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay, ay ; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this niOmont."---" Who must we yield to? Where are they ?"
says Smith again. " Here they are," says he; "here's our captain
and lii'iy men with him, have been hunting you these two hours: the
bouiswuin is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost."--" Will they give us quarter
then '5'" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."--" i will go and ask,
if vcu promise to yield," says Robinson: so he asked the captain -,
and the captain himself than culls out, " You, Smith. you know in
voice; if you Lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you s l
have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
XTKINS ENTBEATS THE CAPTAIN TO SPARE HIS LIFE--THE LATTER
RECOVERS HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUTIXEBRS--AND ROBINSON
LEAVES THE ISLAND.

Urox this Will Atkins cries out, "For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what haVe I done? They have all been as bad as 1:"
which, by the way, was not true; for it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they mutiniccl,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious languaoe. However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called me governor. In a. word they all
laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all;
and then my great army of fifty men, which particularly with those
three, were in all but 0 ht, came up and seized upon them, and upon
their boat; only that I- ept myself and one more out of sight for
reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the
ship: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them,
he expostulated with them 11 n the villany of their practices with
him, and at length upon the urther wickedness of their desi , and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in t 8 end,
and perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent and
begged hard for their lives. As for that he told them that they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that.
they thought they had set him on shore on a barren, uninhabited
island ; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was inhabit-
ed, and that the governor was an Englislnnan; that. he might hang
them all there, if he pleased: hut as he had given them all nutter,
he supposed he would send them all to England, to he dent with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
hr the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would he
hung: in the morning.

'l'hongh all this was lint. a (lotion of his own, yet, it. had the desired
ell-ml: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to intercedt:
"ill! the governor for his life; and all the rest. begged of him, for
God's sake, that they might. not be sent to .l'Jnglund.

 

.11. now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most: easy thing to bring these "etlows in to
he. hearty in get ling: possesxion of the ship; so l retired in the dark
from them, that they might. not see what. kind ol' :L governor they
had. and called the captain to me: when l enlh-d, us at. a. good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, " Cnptnin. the commander calls for you ;" and presently the
captain replied, "Tell his excellency Lam just a'eon' 0." This more.
perfectly deeeived them, and they all believed that he connmnnler
was just. by with his titty men. Upon the captain's Coming to me, I
told him my project for sei'tin}: the ship. which he. liked wonderfully
well, and resolved to put. it. into execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure of sneeess.
.l told him we must divide. the. prisoners, and then he should go and
mite Atkins and two more of the. worst. of them, and send them
pinioned to the care where. the others lay. 'l'his wn< committed to
Friday and the two men who came on shore. with the captain. They
were conveyed to the euro as to a prison: and it was indeed a dis:
innl place, especially to men in their condition. The others I
ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have Given a full
description: and as it. was fenced in and they pinioned: the place
was secure enough, eon<idering they were open their hehzu'iour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into
a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether he
thought they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to, and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that it" they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure: but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
he would have the governor's cu, ageinent for their pardon.

Any one may guess how rca 'ly such a proposal would be are:
copied by men Ill their condition; they fell down on their knees to
the captain, and n'omiseri, with the deepest imprecations, that they
nunld he l'ailhl'ui to him to the last drop, and that they should (me
their lives to him, and would go with lnm all over the world : that
they would own him as a father as long as they lived. "Well," says
the captain, " I must go and tell the govenlor what you say, and see
what 1 can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he had found them in, and that he verily be-
lioved they would be faithful. However, that we might be very
secure, I told him he should go back again and choose out those five,
and tell them that they might see he did not want men, that he
would take out those live to he his assistants, and that the governor
would keep the other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to
the castle (my care) as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and
that it they proved unfaithful in execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and
convinced them that the govemor was in earnest: however, they
had no way left them but to near-pt it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
live to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first the
captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom, having their character from the captain, I had
given tluiir liberty, and trusted them with arms ' third, the other two
that I had kept till now in my bower, pinioucd, but, on the captain's
motion. had now released; fourth, these five released at last; so that
mese were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in tho cav
l'or hostages.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the cap-
tain, who told them 1 was the person the governor had ordered to
look after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they did, they would
be fetched into the castle and laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as the governor, 1 now appeared as another

erson, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and. the
lie, upon all occasions. . -

The captain now had no dillieulty before him, but to furnish luI
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his
passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself, his
mate, and five more, went in the other; and they contrived their
business very well, for they came up to the ship about midni ht.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made Robinson ail
them, and tell them they had brought. olf the men and the boat, but
that it was along time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat. till they come to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering: first with their arms, immediately

 

knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the but end of
their muskets, being; very faithfully seconded by their men; they se-
cured all the rest thin. were upon the main and quarter decks, and
began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men entering ut the fore-chains,
secured the forecastlc of the ship, and the scuttle which Went down
into the cook-room, making three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the. captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round-house, where the new
rebel captain lay, who having.r taken the alarm, had got u), and with
two men and a boy had got. fire arms in their hands ; an when the
mate, with a. crow, Split open the door, the new captain and his men
tired boldl among them. and wounded the mate with a musket bull,
which bro e his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody. 'l'he mule (-allingl'or help. rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he. was. and with his pistol shot the new captain
through the head, Upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was
taken efiectuully, without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered sci-"cu
guns to be tired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very glad to
hear, having sat watching u on the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the morning). Having t as heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it aving been a day of reat fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till I was something surprised with the noise of a un; and
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of " governor,
Governor," and presently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing
up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. " My dear friend and dehverer," sa s he,
"there's your shi , for she is all yours, and so are we, and a that
belong to her." cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode
within little more than half a mile of the shore ; for they had weigh-
ed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
beint' lair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of
the little creek ; and the tide beinglup, the captaln had brought the
finance in near the place where at first landed m rafts, and so
anded just at my door. I was at first ready to sink own with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, Visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither
l pleased to go. At first, for some time, 1 was not able to answer
him one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, 1 held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. I embraced him as my
deliverer, and we re'oiecd together.

When we dad taiked a while, the ca )tain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such as t e ship afl'orded, and such as
the wretches that had been so Ion" his masters had not plundered
him of. U on this he called alou to the boat, and bade his men
bring the t ings ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it
was a present as if I had been one that was not to be Carried away
with them, but as il'I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters,
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each),
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of ork, with a bag of peas, and about a
hundred weight of biscuits: re also brought me a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what was a
thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good ncckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and an,
easy, as it was to me lo wear such clothes at first.

After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what
Was to be done With the prisoners we had; for it was north168 wremuus or ROBINSON censor.

considering whether we might. venture to take them awawwith
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree : and the captain said he- knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obligiug them; and it he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malet'aetors, to be delivered
over to justice at the first English colony he eould come at; and I
found that. the captain himself was very anxxous about it. . Upon
this I told him, that if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make. it their own request that he should

 

leave them upon the island. " I. should be very lad of tha ," says
the captain, " with all my heart," "W'ell," says , " Iwill send for
them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday and the
two heslages, for they were now discharged, their comrades havin}.r
iert'ormed their promise: I sayJ caused them to go to the cave. and
liring up the tire men, pinioned as the}r were, to the. bower, and keep
them there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in
my new habit ; and now I was called the governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with mo, 1 caused the men to he brought before
me, and I told them I had got a. full account of their villanous
behaviour to their captain, and how they had rur away with the ship,
and were purine-inf; to commit farther robberies, but. that. Providence
had cnsnui'ed them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into
the pit which they had due; for others. .1 let them know that by my
direction the hllll) had been seized; that she. lay now in the road:
and they might .see by and hr, that. their new captain had received
the reward of his \'illany, and that they would see. him hangin at
the yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they ha toL'H. '-

._,,v,,-' "my

syn.--

mvsnronss or nosmson cnvson. 169

say way i should not execute them as pirates, taken in the Met, as
by my commission they could not doubt but l had authority so to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
tromiscd them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy.

ut Itold them 1 know not what mercy to show them; for us for
mvself, 1 had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken a passage with the captain to go to England; and as for the
captain, he could not carry them to England other than as prisoners,

1n irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the shi : the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would he the lens;
so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the island; if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, if they thought thev could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture to stay there
than he carried to England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them 1 would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the. whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes; and, in a werd, all that was necessary to make
them easy. I told them the story also of the seventeen Smniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and ma e them
promise to treat them in common with themselves. Here it may be
noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was greutl ' surprised
that 1 never hit. upon a war of making ink of charcoal an water, or
of something else, as I had done things much more difficult.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and seeing that I had oil'ered them so much favour, I would he as
good as my word: and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
J would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like
it he might take them again, if he could catch them. Upon this
they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty,
and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence they came,
and 1 would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live very well, if the thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the ship; but tol the captain I would
stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on board,
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore next day for me; orderhlg him, at. all events, to cause the
new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
tnese men might see him.

1 left them my lire-anus, viz. five muskets, three fowling-pieces.

M170 summons or 3031st cruise:

and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder lefi;
l' or after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I
gave them a description of the way I manaoed the oats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to mahe both utter and
cheese: in aword, I gave them every part of my own story, and
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gun owder more, and some arden seeds, which I told
them I would ave been very glad of: o I gave them the bag of
peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. W e prepared innnedintely to sail, but did not weigh that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swunming
to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they
should be murdered, and begged the captain to take them on board,
though he hanged them immediately. Upon this, the captain pre-
tended to have no power without. me; but after some dillicult , and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on board,
and were some time after soundly whipped and pickled: after which
they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men; to which the ca -
tain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were very thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it lay in my power to send any vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.

W hen 1 tool; leave of this island, I carried on board, for rcliques,
the great oat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of m
parrots; so I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentione ,
which had lain by me so long useless that it had nrown rust
tr tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it hadbheen a litt e
rubbed and handled; as also the money 1 found in the wreck of the
Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as
i found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been
upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days.
being delivered from this second on tivity the same day of the month
that I first made my escape in the ong boat, from among the Moors
of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England
the 11th of June, in the year 1637, having been thirty-five yeaa
absent.. mmflflffluj- , ' .f

////l'. }

 

SECTION XXVIII.

ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, WHERE TIE FINDS'THB PORTUGUESE
CAPTAIN, WHO RENDERS HIM AN ACCOUNT OF HIS PROPERTY IN
THE BBAZILS.--SETS OUT ON HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND BY LAND.

WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a. stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I left my money in trust with, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble; but on
the contrary, in atitude for former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as well as my little stock would afi'ord; which, at the time,
would allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when
I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: but my father and mother
were dead, and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one of my brothers, and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me 2 so that in a word, I found nothino to relieve or assist me: and
that the little money I had would not do much for me as to settling
in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the shi whom I so happily
delivered, and by the same means saved the s lip and cargo, hav'

iven a ver handsome account to the owners of the manner how
xad saved t e lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and all together made
me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling.
Hut; utter makingr several reflections upon the circumstances of my
life, and how little av this would go towards settling mo in the
world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, andsee if 1 might. not come by
some information of the state of my plantation in the. Bruzils, and of
"hat. was become or my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had
some years past given me over for dead. With this View [took
shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April l'ollowin ; my man
Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these ram )lings, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. When i came
to Lisbon, 1 l'ound out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction,
my old friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at. s an. oil
the shore of Africa. llc was now grown old, and had left otl' going'
to s '11, having: put. his son, who was far from a \_'oung man, into his
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not: know
me: and, indeed, l hardly knew him: but. I soon brought him to my
rememln'ance, and as soon brought myself to his rememh 'anee,
when l told him who I was.

Alter some passionate expressions oft-ho old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my parlner.
The old man told me. he had not, been in the Brazils for about, nun:
years: but that he could assure me that- when he. enme- away my
partner was living; but. the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizant-c of my part, were both dead: that, however. he
twin-red I would have a very good account. of tho imprm'ennmt. of
the plantation; for that upon the. general belict' of my being,r east
away and drowned, my trustees haul given in tho account of the pro-
duce of my pzwt: ot' the plantation to the proenrator-tiscnl, who had
appropriated it, in 'tlSC 1 never came to claim it, one-third to the
king, and two-thirds lo the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex-
nended for the benefit of the tour, and for the conversion ol'the
lit-.lirms to the Catholic faith: lint that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inluutanre, it would be restored; only that. the,
improvement, or annual prmluetion, being distributod to charitable
uses, could not. be restored : but he assured me that, the steward of
tho king's rovcnuc from lands, and the proviedore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great- caro all along that the incumbent, that.
is to say, my partner, gave every 3' r r a faithful account of the pro-
duce, of which they had duly received my moiety. I asked him it
he ltnew to what height. of improvement he had brought the planta-
tion, and whether he thought. il might be worth looking after; or
whether, on my going thither, I should meet with any obstruction to
my possessing my just right. in the moiety. lle told me he could
not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved, but this
he knew, that, my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjo'v-
in; his part of it. ; and that, to the best of his rennanhram-e, he had
heard that tho king's third of my pa ,, which was, it .\'l_'-('tliS, granted
away to some. other monastery or rcligious house, amounted to above.nveuruuss or nomuson cmrson. -73

two huuired moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no uestion to be made of that, my
partner being alive to witness my tit c, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the country; also he told me, that the survi-
vors of my two trustees were very fair honest people, and very
wealthy : and he believed I would n'ot only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm
while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myself a. little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old ea. tsin how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dispose oi my effects, when he knew that I had made
iii). will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal

cir, &c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my
being; dead, he could not set as executor, until some certain account
should come of my death; and, besides, he was not willing to inter-
meddlc with a. thing so remote: that it was true he had registered
my will, and put in his claim ; and could he have given any account
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and
taken possession of the ingenio (so they called the sugar-house), and
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders, to do it.
" But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you, which,
perhaps, may not he so acceptable to you as the rest; and that is,
)elicvmg you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to nccount with Inc, in your name, for
six or eight of the first years' profits, which I received." There
being at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and buying slut-es, it did not amount to near so
much as afterwards it produced: " however," says the old man, " I.
shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
1 have disposed of it."

After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my plants-
lion, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being always
delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides
rum, molasses, &e., which is the consequence ol- 8. sugar-work; and I
found, by this account, that every year the income considerably in-
creased; but, as above, the disbursements being lur e, the sum at
first was small : however, the old man let me see that e was debtor
to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
in his ship {be having been shipwrecked comin home to Lisbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place. is good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged
to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a. share
m a new shi . " However, my old friend," says he, " you shall not
want a sup y in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you
shall he in y satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and
gives me one hundred and sixty Portu l moidores in gold; and take-
mg the writings of his title to the s i , which his son was one to
the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and is son
another, he puts them both into my hands, for security of the
rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to hear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generousl he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a riend he
was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to
me; therefore I asked him it his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much monev at that time, and if it would not straiten him?
He told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little; but,
however, it was my money, and I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of afl'ection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to n'ive him a
recci t for them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever
I ha possession of the plantation I would return the other to him
also (as, indeed, I afterwards did ; and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, l we d not take it by any means: but
that if I wanted the money, 1 found he was honest enough to pay
me; and if 1 did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to expect, I would never have a penny more from him.

When this was past, the old man asked me if he should put me
into the method to make my claim to m lantation? I told him I
thought to yo over toit myself. He said lmight do so, if I pleased:
but that if f did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appmpriate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil he made
me enter my name in a ublic register, with his allidavit, allirming,
upon oath, that I was 'vc, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This
being regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration afiixed, he
directed 'me to send it, with a letter of his writinrr, to a merchant of
his wiuaiutance at the place; and then proposed my staying with
him ti an account came of the return.

Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.

First, There was the account--current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my
old Portugal ca tain, be" for six ears: the balance a>> ared to
the one thousadd one linmgrdred and seventy-four moidoi'g: in my
avour.

Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as bein the efi'ects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil eath; and the balance of this amounted to
nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being
about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores.

Thirdly, There was the prior of Agustine's account, who had re-
ceived the profits for above fourteen years; but not being to
account for what was disposed of b the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred a seventy-two mordores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account; as to the king's
part that refunded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me affection-
ately upon my being alive, givm me an account how the estate had
improved, and what it produce a year; with a articular of the
number of squares or acres that it contained, how p anted, how many
slaves there were u on it, and making two and twenty crosses for
bleSsiugs, told me he had said so many Ave Marius to thank the
blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to
come over and take possession of in own; and, m the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he shoul deliver my effects, if I did not
coine myself: concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his famil ; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards'
skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better voy-
age than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoincd, not quite so large as moi-
dores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me
one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in old.

I might well say now, indeed, the latter on of the Job was better
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of
my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships came all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the efl'ects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale and

row sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial. l
elieve the sudden surprise of by bad overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot: nay after that 3! continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a ph sician being sent for, and something of the real cause
of my illness being known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
which I had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not
again eased by vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
ve died.
l was new master, all of a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England ; and, in a word, 1 was in a condition which 1 scarce
knew how to understand, or how to c0mp05e myself for the enjoy-
ment of it. The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my end old caplaLn, who had been first charitable to me
in my distress, 'ind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him, that next
to the providence of heaven, which disposed all things, it was owing
to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which 1 would do
a hundred-fold: so I first returned the hundred moidores, I had rc-
ccived of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up
a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and
firmost manner possible. After which I caused a procuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of the annual profits
of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account with him,
and make the. 'eturus by the usual iieets to him in my name: and a
clause in the end, heing a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him
duringr his lift, out of the cll'ects, and fifty moidores a your to his son
after him, for his life; and thus l reunited my old man.

Having.y settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my ell'ects
into good bills of exchuuve, my next dillieulty was, which way to
go to England; 1 had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
i had a strange aversion to go to England by so. at that time; and
though 1 could give no reason for it, yet the diiiiculty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage, in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom
I conunmiimtml ('\-'('i')' thing, pressed mo earnestly not to go by son,
but either to go by land to the Groyne (Coruunn). and cross over
the Bay of lliscny to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
sail: journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In a
word, 1 was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all, except.
from Calias to Dover, that l resolved to travel al.' the way by land;
which, as l was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasantor way: and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me; after which we picked up two
more English iiiereimnts also, and two younnr Portuguese gentlemen,
the last going to l'uris only ; so that in all idlere were six of us, and
five servants; the two uu-rr-hanfs and the two Portuguese conte"in
themselves with one servant between two, to save the charge; an
as for me, I got an 1111;3le sailor to travel with me as a servant.
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of sup lying the place of a servant on the road.

In t 's manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they
did me the honour to call me captain as well because I was the old-
est man, as because I had two servadts, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land 'ournal; but some adventures
that happened to us in this tedious an difiicult journey I must not
omit.

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the Court of Spain, and to see
what was worth observing; but it being the latter art of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid 3. out the middle
of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having
attenmLCd, at an extreme hazard, to ass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itselj, we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that had always been used to a hot climate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insuil'erable ;
nor, indeed, was it more strange than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a. wind from the Pyr-cnean
mountains, so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable,
and to endanger the benumbing and perishing of our fingers and
toes.

We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna ; when seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the
memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to Fonts-
rabin and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little
voyage. But while I was considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of
the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
incommoded with the snow ; for where they met' with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their
horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same wa with no hazard from the snow, provided we
were armed sufiieient y to protect ourselves from wild beasts, for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if he
would ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we were
told we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains, He satisfied us that, there was no danger of that.
kind in the way we. were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish. who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
were obliged to come back again.

Aconrdingly, we set out. from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed two
rivers, and come. into the lain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where t ic countryr was pleasant, and no snow to
be seen; but on a sudden turning to his left, he apnoachcd the
mountains another way: and though it is true the hi 5 and preci-
piecs looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such windinfl' ways, that we insensihly passed the
height of the mountains wiilionr being much incumhcred with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he. showed us the pleasant fruitful pro-
vinces of Langurdoc and Gaseonv, all green and flourishing, though,
indeed, at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass
still.

"'0 were. a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast, that we could not travel _: but he bid
us be easy ; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we
began to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH. A BER--ROBINSON AND HIS FELLOW
TRAVELLERS ATTACKED BY A FIDCK 01' WOLVES--BIS ARRANGE-
MENT OF HIS AFFAIRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETURN TO
ENGLAND.

Ir was about two hours before night, when our ide being some-
thing before us, and not just in sight, out rushe three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, ad'oining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves made at the aids, and (1 he been
far before us, he would have been devoure before we could have
hel )ed him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tached the man with that violence, that he had not time, or presence
of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us
most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up,
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! 0 master!"
but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the Wolf, that attacked him, in the head.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all
mended our ace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, won (I give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had diseng ed the
poor guide, though we did not presently discern what ' d of
creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fi ht m (1 so hardiil'y, and in such a surprisin
manner, as that whic follows between riday and the bear, whic
:"Iw us all. though at first we. were surprised and afraid for him, the
gmnH'M. diversion inuuinnhle, As mo hem" is 2'. henv)', Clumsy erm-
Lnre. and does not gallop us the wolf docs, who is swift and light, so
he hns um mrtienlnr quail . es, which generally are the rule of his
(iciions; first, as to men, who are not. his proper prey (he does not.
n<nulh~ attempt them, except. they first attack him, unless he he
t'M.'\'>.\'l\'t'l)' hungry, which it. is prohnhh: might: now he the case, the
ground lll'lllL: covered with snow), it' you do not. meddle with him, he,
will not meddle with you; but. then you must take care to he wry
rivil In him, and girehim the. road, for he is :1 very niei' gentleman;
he will not go a step out. of his war for n prince: my, if you are
really :it'rnid. your best. way is in tool: another way. and keep going
on; for sometimes if you slop, and stand still, and look steadfastly

 

 

at him. he takes it. fo' :ni :n'i'ront . but. it' you throw or loss anything
at. him and it. hits him, though it were. but a hit of stiek as big no
your linger, he thinks himself nhused' and sets all other hnginew
aside to pursue. his revenge, and will have s: .t'netinn in point of
hr'unourz--this is his first quality : the next is it he boom-e:ill'rnnted,
he will never l 'nve you night. nor day, till he has his revenge, but.
Follows, at :1 gmxl round rote, till he overtakes you. I

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we eume up to
him, he was helping him ell from his horse, for the man wns hoth
hurt. and t'rigluencd, when, on a sudden, we espied the bear come out.
of the wood, and a 'ust., monstrous one. it. w s, the biggest by for
that ever 1 raw. We were all :i lillle surprised when we saw him ;
out when Friday saw him, it was easv to see joy and courage in the
fellow-'5munlenzinee: "U, U, U I" sit-rs Friday, three tiuies,"pointing
to him ; "'0 master! you give me Le leave, me slmkee te hand with
him ; me. nmkec you good laugh."

i was surprised to see. the.-- fellow so well pleased: " You [001,"ADVENTURES or 11091wa (meson. 18]

92.53 1, " he will eat you up."--" Eutce me up! came me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me euiee him up, me makes you good
laugh; on all stay here, me show yod good laugh." So down he
sits, an ets ofi' his boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of pumps
(as we ca 1 the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket),
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun, away he llew,
swift like the wind.

The hour was walking softly on, and ofl'ered to meddle with no-
lnnlv, till Frida coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
could uinlcrstsn him : "Hurk e, hark ye,"suys Friday, "me spenkee
with you." We followed at a. istunee; for now being come down on
the Gaseony side of the mountains, We were entered a vast grunt
forest, where the country was plain and pretty open, though it. hnd
nmny trees in it scattered here and there, Friday, who had, us we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up
a "rent stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
did him no more hurm than if he had thrown it avainst a wall; but
it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of fear, that he
did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some lau h
as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, lie
turns about, and comes after him, taking long strides, and shuflling
on at a strange rate, such as would put a horse to a. middliu gullo ;
away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us 3dr
help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the hear
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially [was angr that he had turned the bear upon
115,1md then run away; and {called out: "You dog, is this your
making us laugh? Come awa , and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature." l-le hear me, and cried out: " N0 shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh;" and as the nimble
creature run two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, be
beckoned to us to follow ; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up
the tree, laying his gun down upon the round, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. The ear soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did, he sto pcd at
the gun, smelt it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into t 8 tree,
climbing like a out, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
fully, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life see any-
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode
near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small end
of a large branch, Md the bear got about half way to him. As soon
as the beer got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaken--"Ila l " says he to us, " now you see me teechee the bear

u'um-c ', " so he falls a Jumping and shalunz the bough, at which the
hear began to totter, hut- stood still, and began to look behind him,
to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartilv.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal; when seeiiig
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as it' he had supposed the
bear could speak English : "' What, you cmne no farther? pray you
come farther-5' so he left jnm )ing and shaking the tree; and the
bear, 'usL as if he understood u' int he said, did come a little farther;
then e fell a jumping again, nnd the bear stopped again. We
thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried
out earnestl)r : " 0 pray! 0 pray! no shoot, we shoot by and then -,"

 

he would have said by and by. However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and
we found that the hear was too cunning for that too ; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what
would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at last. But
Friday puts us out of doubt uicklv, for seeing the bear clin fast to
the bough, and that he would not he persuaded to come any arther :
" Well, well," says Friday, " you no come farther, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you:" and u on this, he goes out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it wo d bend with his weirrht, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till he came
near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun,
takes it u , and stands still. " Well," said I to him, "Friday, what
will you 0 now? Why don't you shoot him P"--" No shoot," says
Friday, " not et; me no shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laug ;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presentl ;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from t e
bough where he stood, but did it might cautiously, loo ' behind
him every ste , and coming backward till he got into the b0 y of the
tree; then w it I the same lunder-end foremost, he came down the tree,

rasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, may
eisurely. At this 'uncture, and just before he could set his bin -
foot on the groun , Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. ' hen the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased, by our looks, he fails a laughing himself very loud.
" So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. " So you kill them ?
says 1, "why you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run much in my
head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, 01' which I have said something already, I never heard any-
thino that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainl have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature off, which was wort saving; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him.
and went forward on our journe .

We were not gone half over the plain, when we bet-ran to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightf manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up b an experienced oflieer. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive t em, but found to draw ourselves-in a close line was the
only way ; so we 'formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only every other man should
tire, and that the others who had not fired should stand ready to give
them a second voile immediate] , if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that t ose who ha fired at first. should not pretend to
load their fuses again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for
we were all armed with a fuse and a pair of pistols each man; so we
were, by this method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at n. time.
However, at present we had no necessity, for upon firing the first
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the (ire; four of them, being shot in the head, dro ) ed;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we coul see
by the snow. I found they stop ed, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering,r that had been told that the fiercest erea.
tures were terrified by the voice of a man. I caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the notion not altogether
nus-taken; for upon our shout, they began to retire and turn about.
1 then ordered a. second volley to be fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us
leisure to charge our pieces train; and that we, might lose no time,
we kept going; we had but iltle more then loaded our fuses, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
some wood, on our left, only that it was further onward, the same
way we were to go.

'1' he night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our side; but the 110158 increasing, we could easily
perceive that it was the bowling and yelling of these hellish creatures;
and on a sudden we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on
our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we secured to
be surrounded with them, however, as they did not fall upon us, we
kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which,
the way beingr very rough, was onlya stood hard trot. In this manner
we came in view of the entrance of the wood, through which we
were to )355, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprised, when, coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. 011a sudden, at
another opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a gun, and looking
that way, out rushed a horse, with :1 saddle and bridle on him, flying
him the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full speed.

But- here we had a most horrible sight ; for riding up to the
em rance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of another
horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures ; and one of
the men was no doubt the same whom we heard lire the gun, for
there lay a gun just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head
and the 11 wet art of his body were eaten up. This filled us with
horror, and we linew not what cow'sc to take ; but the creatures re-
solved us soon, for they gathered about us resentl , in hopes of
prey; and I verily believe there were three undre of them. It

appcncd very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there
for carriage. [ drew my lillle troop in among those trees, and
placing: ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I aclvised them all
to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a
triangle or three fronts enclosing our horses in the centre. We did
I0, and it was well we did: for never was a more furious chargemvenruans or nosrnson 030302. 185

than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
[ said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as be-
fore, every other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they
killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fuses, we thought they
stopped a little; and I hoped they would have gone 03'; but it was
on] a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two
vol eys of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was 10th to spend our shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had char ed my fuse
and his own while we were engaged; but as Isaid, I c ed my other
man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay strain all
along the ioee of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and had ut just time to get away, when the wolves came 11 to it,
and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol e use to
the powder, set it on fire; those t at were'upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we despatehed these
in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired oil' in one valley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallicd immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found stru gling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our swords, whi answered our expectation; for the
crying and howling the made was better understood by their fellows;
so that they all fled an left us.

10 In about an hour more we came to the town where we were to

gfie next morn' our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the ra ' g of his two wounds, that he' could go no far-
ther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful leasant count ,
and no snow, no wolves, nor an hing like them; ut when we to d
our story at Toulouse, they to d us it was nothing but what .was
ei'dinarylin the rest forest at the foot of the mountains, es eoially
when t e snow y on the ground; but they mqnired muc what
kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that way
in such a severe season; and told us it was surprising we were not
all devoured. ,

N
1 have nothinn' uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothingabut what. other travellers have given an account of,
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
to Paris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the Hill of January, after having a severe cold
season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new discovered estate safe about. me; the bills of
exchange which I brought. with me havin, been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counse or was m good ancient
widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no

ains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted

or so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy from the be-
ginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good
gentlcwmnan.

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, if I
could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who having offered it to the two merchants, the survivors of
my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the odor, and
remitted thirtv-throe thousand pieces of eight. to a correspondent of
theirs at Lisbon, to pay for it. Having signed the instrument. of
sale, and sent. it to my old friend, he reunited me hills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate,
reserving the payment 01' a hundred moidores a year to himself
during his life, and fifty moidorcs afterwards to his son for life,
which 1 had romised them.

Though I rad sold my estate in the Brazils, vet I could not keep
the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong inclination
i had to see my island. My true friend, the widow, earnestly dis-
suaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that, for almost
seven years, she prevented my running abroad; during which time 1
took my two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my
care: the eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, after
my (leccasc. The other i put out to a captain of a ship; and alter
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young follow, I
put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, old as I was, to further adventures myself.

In the mean time, 1 in part settled myself hero: for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a
voyage to S ain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity
prevailed, an engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to
~I\e East Indies: this was in the year 1694.
HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND--LOSE") HIS
WIFE--IS TEMPTI'II) TO GO TO SEA AGAIN-- TAKES OUT A CARGO
FOR. 1115 COLONY.

VVIIHX my wife was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. I
was as much a stranger in it,in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to think nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me:
one part labouring for brend, another part squandering in vile ex-
cesses or empty leusures, equally miserable, because the end they
propoSed still fiedpfrom them: for the men of pleasure every day
surfcited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repent-
ance; and the men of labour spent their strcnoth in daily stm gling
for bread to maintain the daily strength they la oured with; soiving
in a. dailyr circulation of sorrow, livinrr but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the ordy end of wearisomc life, and a
wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island,
where I suffered no more com to grow, because I did not want it,
and bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them; where
the money lay in the drawer till it grow mouldy, and had scarce the
favour to be looked upon in twenty years.

My sage counsellor was one; 1 was like a ship without a pilot,
that could only run before 1; 1e wind: my thoughts ran all away again
into the old ull'nir; my head was quite turned with the whimsies ol'
foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements on
my farm, my garden, my cattle, and in family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, ad no relish, and were like
music to one that has no car, or food to one that has no taste; in a
word, I resolved to leave ofl" honsekeepinv, let my farm, and return
to London; and in a few months after I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but
to saimter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to myself: " A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;
and indeed I thought I was much more suitably employed when I
was twenty-six days making me a deal board."

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and
had made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, and
told me that some merchants of his ac uaintanee had been propos-
ing to him to go a voyage to the East ndies and to China, as pri-
vate traders.--" And now, uncle," says he, " if you will go to sea
with me, I will engage to land you upon your old habitation in the
island, for we are to touch at the Brazils.

The scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the
prepossession I was under, and of which I lave said so much, that
i told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants I
would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any
farther than my own island. " W hy, sir," says be, "you don't
want to be left there again, I hope? ' " Why," said I, "can you
not take me up again on your return?" He told me it would not
he. possible to do so; that the merchants would never Allow him to
come that way with a. laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and min'ht be three or four. "Besides, sir,
if I should misearry," said he, "and not return at all, then you
would be just reduced to the condition you were in before."

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it:
which was to carry a framed sloop on board the shi , which being
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, migl t, b the help
of some carpenters, whom we reed to carry wit us, e set up
again in the island, and finished, t to go to sea, in a few days.

I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the ini ortunities of my
nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, t at nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody
concerning themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one
way or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and above all,
my 'oung children. But it was all to no urpose; I had an irre-
sist-i 1c desire to the voyage; andl told ier I thought there was
something so uncommon in the imgressions I had upon my mind for
the voyage, that it would he a kind of resisting Providence it" l
should attem t to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos-
tnlations, an joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my absence, and
providinrr for the education of my children.

In ordiar to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that 1 was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever might befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to the widow, with a sullicient maintenance to herself for her care:
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and as she lived till
1 came home, I also lived to thank her for it.

My nephew was ready to sail about the heginnino' of January
1694-5, and I, with my man Frida , went on board in the Downs on
the 8th; havin v,.besides that soc) which I mentioned above, a
very considerabe cargo of all kin s of necessary things for my
colony, which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to
leave so.

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two-and-t-wcnty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty;
so that while we lay here, wenever touched the ship's stores, but
rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and
two cows, with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good pas-
sage, to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose
otherwise of them.
BOBINSON'B 8H1? RELIEVLS THE CREW Of A FRENCfl VESSEL THAT
HAD CAUGHT HEB.

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As 1 renn-mber, it might be about
the 20th of Fehrnzuw, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, czuue into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of tire,
and heard a gun fired ; and while he, was telling us of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing;
but in a. few minutes we saw a very ereat light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there could
be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for fire
hundred leagues, for it appeared at \V.N.\V. Upon this we con>>
eluded it must be some ship on lire at sea; and as, by our hearing
the noise of guns just before, we concluded that it could not be far
off, we stood direclly towards it, and were presently satisfied we
should diseorer it, because, the farther we sailed, the nrreater the
light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we cotild not per-
ceive anything but the light for a while. In about. half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the
weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a
great ship on lire, in the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I n'csenlly recolleel'cd
my former circumstances, and in what Condition was in, when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more do lorable the
Circumstances ot' the poor creatures belonging to that s lip must be
if they had no other ship in compan with them. Upon this, I im~
mediately ordered that live guns would be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was help for them at hand, and that they mi ht endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for the {T11 we coul see the flames of the
shi , yet they, it being night, conl see nothing of us.

Xbout eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats
by the help of our perspective glasses: found there were two of
them, both thron red with people, and deep in the water. We pen
oeived the rowe , the wind being against them; that they saw om
ship, and id their utmost to make us see them.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come on board
and then made more sail, standi directly to them. In little more
than half-an-hour we came up wit 1 them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.

U on the whole, we found it was a French merchant-shi of three
hun red tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river ot Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the first fire had
gotten into some plart of the ship so difficult to come at, that they
could not effectna y quench it; and afterwards getting in between
the timbers, and wrtlun the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledaments for the kind-
ness shown to them was wanting; the Frendlr, it is known, are
naturally apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day, and desired to s euk with me and
my nephew: the commander began to consult wit us what should
be done with them; and first, they told us that we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for that
kindness received. The captain said they had saved some money,
and some things of value, in their boots, catched hastily out of the
flames, and if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an
offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhe ..
in our way, where, if possible, they might get a pass 0e to Fran '
M nephew was for accepting their mone at first wor , and to con-
siccr what to do with them afterwards; at l overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange country:
and if the Portuguese capt' 'n that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Por-
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse.

I therefore told the French ca tnin that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true, but t at it was our duty to do so, is we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but that we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would he a must hat--bar.
ous thing to take that little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set them on shore and leave them; that this would
be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowning, and abandon them to starvin ; and there-
fore I wotud not let the least thing be taken from t cm. As to
settin them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an cxceedi
difiieu ty to us, for that the ship was bound to the East Indies; an
though we were driven out of our course to the westward a very
great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for
their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our
voyage on their particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighter-s, with whom he was under
charter-party to ursue his voyage by the way of Brazil: and all I
knew we could do for them, was to put ourselves in the way of
meeting with other ships homeward bound from the Vi'est Indies,
and get them a passage, if possible, to England or France.

The first part of the proposal was so nerous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but fife); were in a very great
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of being
carried away to the East Indies; they then untreated me, that scein
l was driven so far to the westward before I met with then?
would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfound-
land, whcre it was prohuhle I might meet with some ship or sloop
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their art, and
therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I eonsidere , that to
carr this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
into crable severity upon the poor people, but would he ruiningr our
.wholc voyage, by devouring all our provisions: so I thought it no
Breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessar to us, and in which no one could say we were
to blame: for the uws of God and nature would have forbid that
we should refuse to take up two boats' full of people in such a dis-
tressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting
ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore some--
where or other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
am: if not, that i would carry them to Martinieo, in the West
In ies.
RELIEVES THE CREW 01' A BRISTOL SHIP, WI") ARE STARVING '-
ARRIVES AT 1115 ISLAND.

Tm: wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty gnarl, and
as the winds had continued in the points between NE. and SE. a
long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Eumpe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
heating up against the wind, that they (lurst take in no passengers,
for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for them-
selves as for those that they should take in; so we were obliged to
go on. It was about a week after this that we made the Banks 0
Newfoundland ; where, to shorten my story, we put all our Fren
people on board a barquc, which they hired at sea there, to put them
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
provisions to victual themselves with. When 1 say all the French
went on shore, I should remember that a young priest on board,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the vovage
with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; which
I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen
entered themselves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course to the West Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
little or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
on the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course
S.E. and by 8.: we soon erceived it was a large vessel, and that
she bore up to us, but eonlii not at first know what to make of her,
till, after coming a little nearer, we found that she had lost her main
topmost, foremost, and bowsprit; and presently she fired a gun, as
a signal of distress : the weather was roll y good, wind at N.N.W.,
a fresh gale, and we soon came to 5 real); with her.

We lound her a ship of Bristo, bound home from Burbadoes,
but had been been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief-mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indill'erent ease for good
artists to bring the shi i home. They had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met with another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to
the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. l'hey
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-emit, by a strong gale of wind
at N .N.""., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work
the ship with but a maineourso, and a kind of square sail upon a
jury l'oremast, which they had set u), they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to staut away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone:
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left
in the ship, and had new 1th for eleven days. The on] relie' they
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had a out half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some suecades, or
sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.

There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board,
who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more do-
plorahlo condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may
be sure, for the poor pa. igers; and they were, indeed, in a con-
ditiou, that their misery is very hard to describe.

1 had perhaps not known this art, it my curiosity had not led
me (the weather beiurr l'air, and tie wind abated) to go on board
the ship. The sceou mate, who, upon this occasion, commzurded
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told me, indeed, they
had three paSsengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable
condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have
heard nothing of them for above two days; and I was afraid to
inqure after them," said he, " for I had notlnng to relieve thorn with."

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare- and, indeed, I haul so far overruled things with my
nephew, that 1 would have vietualled them, though we had he
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to ave
supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

But now they were in anew danger ; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we. gave them. The mate or
commander brought six men with him in his heat; but these poor
wretches looked liked skeletons, and were so Weak, that they could
hardly sit to their ears. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
situ'vetl, for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every hit the ate.

1 cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat be ore him imme-
diately; and he had not out three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stop ed awhile, and our sur con mixed
him 11 somcthi with some broth, which he said woul be to him
both end and p lysie; and after he had taken it, he grew better.
In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it:
they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous,
and had no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so
muclrgreedincss, that they were in danger of their lives the next
momma.

wmie I kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that were left on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack
of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat tn be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men takinrr it to
eat. raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boile , and
then to give every man but a very little at a time: and by this
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the, great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passen ers were in; and if they
were alive, to comfort them, and give tiem what refreshment was
proper: and the sur eon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth whici he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.

I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said above, havin a grea.
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itse i would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could haye itl)
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, Wit
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.

1 found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
vmtnals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate'observed
his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept them all by force: however, he caused some biscuit.
cakes to he dipped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which they called hrcwis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but a litth' at. a time. But it was all
in vain; and had I not come on hoard, and their own commamh-r
and olliccrs with me, and with good words, and some threats also
01' giving tluun no more, 1 believe they would have broken into the
cook-room lrv force, and turn the meat out of the furnace; for
words are indeed of very. small force to a hungry holly -. however, we

 

pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time,
and the next time gave them more, and at last tilled their bellies,
and the men (lid well enough.

But. the misery of the poor passengers in the cabinwas of another
nature, and far beyond the rest; for the ship's company had so little
for themselves, it was but: too true that they had at first; kept them
very low, and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or seven
days it might be said thcv had' really no food at all, and for several
days before very little. 'l'hc poor mother, who, as the men reported,
was a woman of sense and good breeding, had spared all she could
so afl'ectionately for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went, she sat upon the floor or deck,
with her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to revive and
encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth.
$he opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak:
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimatint':
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of
the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls
down; though 1 question whether he could be sure of it or not-
but it was too late, and she died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most afi'ectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone: et he lay in a cabin-bed, as one
stretched out, with hardly any life eft in him. He had a piece of
an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however,
being young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate
got something down his throat, and e began sensibly to revive;
though by givmg him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the oor maid: she la all along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, an just like one t at had fallen down
with an apoplex , and stmggled for life. Her limbs were distorted
one of her an was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard, that we could not easil make her let it go: her
other arm is over her head, and her feet ay both together, set fast
against the rame of the cabin-table: in short, she lay just like one
in the ngonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

We knew not what to do with this poor irl; for when our
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowle gt: and ex erience,
had with great application recovered her as to lite, he had er upon
his hands as to her senses; for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con-
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our
business was to re ieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same course with
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a
ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to
help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his
jur foremast, we did, as it were, lie b him for three or four days;
an then having given five barrels 0 beef, 8. barrel of ork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and w 1: other
things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some ieccs of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them;
taking on oard with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their eds.

The young lad was a at seventeen years of age; a prett , well
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejecte with the one of
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before, at Barbadoes : he beg d of the surgeon to s eak to me to
take him out of the shi : forfife said the cruel fellows d murdered
his mother: and, inde , so the had, that is to say, passively; for
they might have spared a sm sustenance to the poor helpless
widow, that mi rht have n'eserved her life, though it had been but
Just enough to cap her alive : but hunger knows no friend, no rela~
tion, no justice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found them in, that is to sa ',
starvin in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, it
he was at delivered from the terrible crew that be was among ;
that the captain (b which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) ha saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their oods, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his com-
mander sign a writing obligiug himself to go, as soon as he came to
Bristol, to one Mr. R0 ers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, an to deliver a letter which Iwrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow; which I
suppose was not done, for 1 could never learn that the ship came to
Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being in so
disabled 9. condition, and so far from any land, that I am of Opinion
the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder in the
sea; for she was leaky and had damage in her hold, when we met
with her.

I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage m to weather, though, at first,
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of our voy 8;
but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, s iall
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any landmark, 1 did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or not.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenclimen's shallo , which we had found
a convenient boat, and therefore kept her wit their very good will,
at length I came fair on the south side of my island, and presently
knew the very countenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe

to an anchor, broadside with the httle creek where my old habits
tion was.8M10N mm

sonmsou AND rmnu eo "ROBE--THE Luna nee-rs wrm ms
sauna--account or wuu rssssn or run ISLAND Arum
Romxsox's QUi'rrmG IT.

As soon as I sow the lace, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried: "0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there," pointing to our
old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.

" Well, Frida. ," says I, "Do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? an do you think we shall see your father?" The
fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor affectionate creature looked de'ected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plentif y. "What is the
matter, Friday?" says I; " are on troubled because you may see
your father?" "No, no," says e, shaki his head, "no see him
more : no, never more see him again." " by so," said I, "Friday?
how do you know that?" "0 no, 0 no," says Friday; "he long
ago die, long ago, he much old than." "Well, well," an s I, " Friday
you don't know; but shall we see an one else, then? ' The fellow,
it seems had better eyes than I, and re points to the hill just above
my old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out,
" We see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, but I saw nobod , no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, I suppose, because could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day; and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the
shi , not knowing what to think of us.

Ks soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after we per-
ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and hen 'ng out:
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore, ta ' with
me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the sto ' of my
1m there, and the manner of it, and every particular 0th of
myse and those I left there; and who was, on that account,
extremely desrrons to go with me. We had besides about sixteen
men well armed, if we had found any new guests there which we did
not know of ; but we had no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and the first man that I fixed mr
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I know
by his face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe it after.
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore but myself; but there was

 

no kec ing Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had s ied
his fat icr at a distance, a good way oti' the Spaniards, where in' ced
I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of tins poor fellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face,
took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay down by
him; then stood and looked it him, as any one would look at a
strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then down upon
the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then get up
again, and stare at him; one would have thought the fellow be~
witchcd.

It would be needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilitics that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he
came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a flag of
truce also: and he not only did not know me at first, but he had no
thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. "Senhor," said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know me?"
M which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man that
was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in S anish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and emhrs me;
telhug me he was inexcusable not to know the face again, that ho
had once seen as if an el came from heaven to save his life: he
and abundance of very andsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how ; and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me it
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me sees-
siou of my "own house again, and where I should see they made
but mean improvements: so I walked along with him; but, alas! I
could no more find the place again than if had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a
posture, so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could hnd.

I asked them what put them u on all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was nee enou h of it, when they had
given me an account how the had passe their time since their
arriving in the island, especi y after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone.

As to the three barbarians so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, e had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small: and, says he, had the been
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; an with
that he crossed himself on the breast. ' But, sir," says he, " I ho e
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced y
necessity, we were ob ' ed, for our own Ereservation, to disarm them,
and make them our su jeets, who won] not be content with being
moderately our masters, but would be our murderers." I answered :
"I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, andnothing
troubled me at my part' from the island but that they were not
come back, that 1 might ave put them in possession of everything
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they deserved;
but if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad, an should be
very far from finding any fault with it; for I knew they wereo
parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief."

p While I was saying this, the man came whom he hadIsent
lick, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, It
was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he madenll
clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and pomtmg
to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen. who owe
their lives to you ;" and then turning to them, and pomtmg to me.
he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by

0302 ADV'L'S'I'DIAI or nosmson causes.

one, not as if they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and the
like, but really as if they had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I
a monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was to the last de-
gree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
cirilities, much less how to return them in kind.

[shall no louver trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which wfil put me to the expense of ten thousand said 1':
and mid he's, and lie told Inc's, and I lord king's, and the like ; but I
shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them out
of my memory, from what they related to me, and irom what I met
with in my conversing with them and with the place.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where I left oil', was of their own part; and I desired he would give
me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there
was little variety in that. art, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having rad very calm weather and a smooth sea.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were ove 'oyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man
among them, t e captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been dead some time) ; they were, he said, the more sur-
prised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the

ands of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as
they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the
storyr of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for
carrying them awav, it was like a dream to them, and their
astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the stor of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them t to arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a 'ust
share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepare to
come away Wll-ll him.

Their first business was to get. canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part. of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a fishin , or for plea-
sure. In these they came away the next morning. I: seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready; for the had no baggage,
neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in t e world but what
the had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
m 0 their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my esca e, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get off from the islan .leaving three ofO

overruns: or nonrrson causes. 20!

the most im udent, hardened, ungoverne'd, disagreeable villains
behind me, tint any man could desire to meet with; to the poor
Spaniards' great rief and disappointment, you may be sure.

The only just t ring the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do ; also they gave them
the long anger of directions which I had left with them, containing
the partie methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pets, and, in a
word, every thing I did; all this emg mitten down, they ve to
the Spaniards (two of them understood English well euougr): nor
did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else,
for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
sociuhl ; and the head Spaniard, who had seen sretty much of my
metho , and Friday's father to ether, manage all their affairs:
but as for the Englishmen, they id nothing but rumble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home
at night, the S aniards rovided their sup mm for them.

The Spaniar would ve been satisfied with this, had the others
but let them alone; which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The differ-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not
worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began
with all the rudeness, and insolenee that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
when 1 came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word
of it. '

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a
defect in my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set down,
amomy the rest, that first as we were wei hing the anchor to set sail,
tlierediappened a litt e uarrcl on boar of our ship, which I was
afraid would have turne to a second mutiny; nor was it a poased
till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taki :7 us alto his
assistanceelparted them by force, and making two 0 the most re-
fractoryf ows prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to
En land, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
wit l the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for
their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquaint-ed us
with it; upon which it was desired that 1, who still passed for a
great man among them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past
should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my honour-'8
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchOr for that night; the
wind also falling cahu next morning, we found that our two men who
had been laid in irons had stole each of them a. musket, and some
other weapons (what powder and shot they had we knew not), and
had taken the shi 's pmuaee, which was not yet hauled up, and run
away with her to liis com anions in rogucry on shore. As soon as
we found this, I ordered t e long boat on shore, with twelve men and
the mate, and away they went to seek the refilnes; but they could
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they ' fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in 'ustiee to their rowuery, to have destroyed their )lanta-
tions, binned all their househo d-stufl' and furniture, and left t em to
shift without it; but. having no orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, come on board
without them. These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more wicked than the , that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned t 6 two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
to do with them; nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.

When the S aniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the paniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen a ain, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they won (1 not hear of it:
so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards havi a
given them some corn for seed. and es ecially some of the peas whildli
I had left them, they dug, planted an enclosed, after the pattern 1
had set for them all, and began to live pretty well. Their first crop
of corn was on the round; and though it was but alittle bit of
.and which they had fug up first, having had but a little time, yet
it whl enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and othe:
enta es.
THE ACCOUNT COXTIXIIED--QlfARRELS BETWEEN THE EXGLISHMEN
--.-\ BATTLE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES 01' SAVAGES WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND--FRESH MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLERS.

THEY were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and
to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the Governor, meaning me, had given them the posses-
sion of it, and nobody else had any right. to it ; and that they should
bluild no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for
t iem.

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent the demanded; and one of
them merrily said, if they were the groun -Iandlords, he hoped, it"
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease; and
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writinos. One of
the three, cursing and raging, told them they should see they
were not in jest; and going to a little lace at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress t eir vietuals, he takes a. fire-
brand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire; and it would have been burned all down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and

trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty
too.
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the
hut, he had ended his days at once. IIis comrade, seeing the danger
they were both in, ran in after him, and innnediately they both came
out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck at with

no pole knocked the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with
we stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come
to help him ; and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood to-
gether, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand off.

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two hon-
est men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they oll'ered to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute it brought
them to a parlev, and they consented to take their wounded man
with them and he gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded sullieicntly with the blow. However, they were much in
the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm
them ell'ectuzdly, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account of how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villians studied nothing but revenge,
and every day gave them some intimation that they di so.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part. of
the roguerics, such as treading down their corn; shooting three
young kids and a she goat, which the poor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and, in a word plaguing them night and day in
this manner; it forced the two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair oppor-
tunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it. (that was, my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see lair play ; so they
got up in the mornin before day, and came to the dues, and called
the Englishmen by ticir names, telling a Spaniar that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before, two of the Spauiards, having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for
distinction, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad com~
>luint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
iron) their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their plant-a-
tion, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the milch goat and their three kids, which
was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at. night, and
they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, in-
oii'ensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in away to
subsist b their labour, and that it had cost them a great deal at
pains to ring things to such perfection as they were then in.

One of the Eng ishmen returned very briskl : "What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without save; and that they
should not plant or build 11 n the island; it was none of their
ground." " Why," says tie Spaniard, very calmly, " Senhor
Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
rough-hcwn tarpnuling: "They might starve and be hanged; they
should not plant nor uild in that place." "But what must they
do, then, senhor?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes
returned: "Do? they should be servants, and work for them."
"But how can you ex ect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
" they are not bought with your money: you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered: "The island was
ihcjrs ; the Governor had given it to them, and no man had an thing
to do there but themselves;" and with that swore by his 'aker
that they would glo and burn all their new huts; the should build
none upon their and." "Why, senhor," says the paniard, "by
the same rule, we must be your servants too." " Ay," says the
hold dog, "and so you shall too before we have done with on."
The Spaniard onl smiled at that, and made him no answer. ow-
ever, this little 'scourse had heated them; and starting up, one
says to the other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins: " Come
J aek, let's go, and have 'tothcr brush with 'em; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our
dominions."

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportu-
nity oli'ered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly
understand them as to know all the particulars, onl that, in general,
they threatened them hard for taking the two Eng ishmen's part.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening,
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the
place which I used to call m how r, they were weary, and overslept
themselves. The case was t ' : they had resolved to stay till mid-
night, and so take the two poor men when they were asleefix, and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to t eir huts
while the were in them, and either bum them there, or murder
them as trey came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
very strange the should not have been kept awake.

Hnwsver. as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it hap (mod, and ver luckil for them all, that they were up, and
gone a road, before t c bloo -miuded rogues came to their hats.
When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardcst man, called out to his comrade: "Ha,
Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are down. They mused awhile
to think what. should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the S aniards had given them
notice of it; and with that they shook iiands, and swore to one

another that they would be rcvcngod of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this blood bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation : they diti not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce an sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little col ccted house-

old stuff in pieces, and threw ever thing about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards foun some of their things a mile otf
their habitation. When they had done all this, they ullcd up all
the young trees which the poor men had planted; pulled up an em
closure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in
a word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde
of 'l'artars would have done.

The two men were, at this 'uncture, gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout,
resolute follows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged one ano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their different con-
duct presently. When the three came back like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had rut
them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what ticy
had done, b way of scoff and bravado; and one of them, stopping
it to one o the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
p ay, takes hold of his but as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, flooring in his face, says to him: "And you, Senhor
Jack Spaniard, she} have the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as
brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand.
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked
him down, as an ex is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues, as insolcnt as the first, tired lus pistol at the Spaniard imme
diately : he missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went. througl.
his hair, but one of them touchefi the tip of his ear, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made t e Spaniard believe he was more
mrt than he really was, and that ut him into some heat, for before
he noted all in a perfect calm; ut now, resolving to go thron h
with his work, he stoo ed, and took the fellow's musket whom 1e
had knocked down, on was just going to shoot the man who had
fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came
out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stopped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.

 

When the were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards treir enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
began to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be
the best method they could take to keep them from killing one ano-
ther, told them they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, the would be very willin to assist and associate with

hem as they id before; but that t ey could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused thelr arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, dcsplsing their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they offered any injhury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot t em as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them ; and if they
fell into their hands alive, the should certainly be hanged. However
this was far from cooling hero, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies As soon as they were gone, the two men
came back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for, having been at their plantation, and finding it all demol-
ished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell theirs. And it was strange
enough to find that. three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punishment at all

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus
disarmed them, made light. of their threatenings; but the two Eng
lishmcn resolved to have their rcmcd against them, what pain:
sou-er it cost to find them out. But 1. re Spaniards interposed hen
too, and told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and
perhaps kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their
governor, " we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for there is no doubt but they Will come to us
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance: we promise you to make no peace with them, without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition we hope
you will promise to use no Violence with them, other than in your
own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last.
" For," said they, " we are not so many of us; here is room enough
for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends."
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was destroyed.

In about live days' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard,
who, as l have said, was the over-nor, and two more with him walk-
ing by the side of the cree , they came u) in a very submissive,
humhlc manner, and begged to be receive again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to an conclusion without. con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; ut, however, they would

0 to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an

our. It may be gueSSed that the were very hard put to it: for it
seems, as they were to wait this h hour for an answer, they beg ed
they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which t ey
did, sending at the same time a. large piece of goat's flesh, and a
boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry
enough.
After half an hour's consultation, the were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen c argin them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murdert em; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted the moderator between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to and rebuild
their l'ellows' two huts, one to be of the same, an the other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground
again where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
of those pulled up, dig up the hind again for planting corn where
they had spoiled it, and, in u word, to restore every thing in the
some state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being ossible to be recovered. '

Well, they submitte to all this; and as they had lenty of pro-
visions gircn them all the while, they row ver or erly, and the
whole society begun to live pleasantly am agreenb y together again:
Only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, 1
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased; however, the S aniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably and friendly together, and study the good of
the whole plantation, the would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and e as idle as they pleased; and thus hnving
lived pretty well tovether for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
Llipm arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as

(3 (WC.
it was not above a Week after they had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident hep ened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of them , and they
were ob igcd to Jay by all private resentments, and look to the pre-
servation of their lives.

It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him,
that is to say, the Spaniard whose hfe I had saved, who was now
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only found his
thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men fighting and killing
one another, but he was broad awake, and could not by any
means get any sleep: in short, he lay a great while; but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so
many of them, u u goats' skins laid thick upon such couches and

ads as they ma e for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship
beds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they
were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put
on a coat. such as it was. and their pumps. and they were ready for
{going any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up,
no looked out; but, boil or dar , he could see little or nothing; and
besides, the trees which had planted, as in my former account is
described, and which were now rown tall, intercepted his sight, so
that he could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight
night, and hearing no noise he returned and laid him down again;
but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose hillt'
self to anything like rest ; but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and he knew not for what.

Having made seine noise with rising and walking about, goin out
and coming in, another of them waked, and eallm , asked w 10 it
was that was up. The governor told him how it ha been with him.
" Say vou sol' " says the other Spaniard; "such thinus are not to
he slighted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working
near us;" and presently he asked him: "Where are the English-
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, " safe enough." It
seems that the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
and had made a place for the three Englishmen, who, since thei:
last mutiny, Were always quartered by themselves, and could not
come at the rest. " Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something
in it, .l mu persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have. a converse with, and receive intellivence from,
the spirits uncmbodied, and inhabiting the invisible world ; and this
friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make
use ol'it. Come," says he, "let us go and look abroad; and if we
find nothing at all in It to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a. story to
the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing
it."

in a word, they went out, to go to the to of the hill where I
used to go; but they being strong, and a goo company, not alone,
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when
they were surprised with seeing a light. as of fire, a very little way
oti' from them, and hearing the voices of men, not one or two, but 0!
a great number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landingr on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least
discovery of their being any inhabitant u on the place; and when
by any occasion they came to know it, trey felt it so etl'cotually,
that the that got away were scarce able to give any account of it;
for we isappeared as soon as tossible; nor did over any that had
seen me escape to tell any one e se, except the three savages in our
last encounter, who jumped into the bout; of whom I mentioned,
I was afraid they should 0 home and bring more help. 'Whether
1t was the consequence o the escape of those men that; so rent a
number came now together, or whether they came ignorant y, and
by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not,
it seems, uudcrstzurd; but whatever it was, it had been their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any in-
habitants in the lace; or to have fallen upon them so ell'ectuall , as
that not a man oi) them should have escaped, which could only ave
been bv getting in between them and their boats; but this presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquil-
lity for a great while.

We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fel-
lows, iving them an account of the imminent danger they were all
in, an they nin as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible
to persuade tiem to stay close within, where they were, but they
must all run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to View them by the light of
t to three fires they had made at a distance from one another; what
they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
the did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
an were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this s' ht; and
when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over t e shore,
they made no doubt but, first or lost, some of them would chop in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would
see the token of inhabitants; and they were in rent purplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less
than starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first
thingl they resolved upon was to dospatch three men awa before it
was 'ght, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
drive them Into the very cave itself. Could they have seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them , but that could not be obtained: for they were some of them
two miles 011' from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards were of
two difi'erent nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beating their brains in considerin their present circumstances,
they resolvcd, at last, while it was at dark, to send the old_ savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con-
cerning them; as what they came for, what they intended to do,
and the like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away; he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word t at he has
been among them undiscovered; that he found they were two
parties. and of two sm'm'al nations, who had war with one another,
and had a great. hattle in their own country; and that both sides
having had several prisoners taken in lho light, they were, by more.
chance, lauded all on the some island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making merrv, but. their coming so by chance to
the same place. had spoiled all their mirth; that they were in a great
rage at. one another, and were so near, that he believed they would
tight again as soon as daylight lax-gnu to a wear: but he did not.
u'rern-e that they had any notion 0| any ho y heng on the island
mt themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling his story,
when they could perceive, hy the unusuai noise they made, that the
two little. armies were engaged in a hloody light.

Friday's father used all the urguuu-nls he could to pursuade our
people. to lie elose, and not. be. seen: he. told them their safety eon-
sistt'tl in it, and that. they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
savages would lxill one another to their hands, and then the rest
would go away ; and it. was so to a little. But it wa ' upossihle to
prevail, especially upon the l'luglisluneu; their curi sity was so
uuportunatr upon their prtuleutials, that. they must. run out and see
the. battle; however they used some. caution too, viz. they did not
go openly, just by their own dwelling, but went. further into the
woods, and placed themselves to advantage, where. they might.
securely see them manage the. tight, and, as they thought, not he
soon by them; hut it seems the savages did see them, as we shall
find hereafter.

The battle was very lioree; and, it' I might he!ieve one of the.
ltuglishuu'n, one of them said he could perceive that. snow of them
were men of great bravery, of iuriueihle spirits, and of great policy
in guiding the tight. The battle, they said, held two hours before
they could guess which party would he beaten; but then, that part 3
which was nearest our people's habitation hogan to appear weakest,
and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this out
our men :1 din into a great consternation, lest any one of those t. nit
tled shoal run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, hv consequence,
the uu'suers would do the. like in search of tlmm. Upon this they
reso red they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove, they resolved to sally over the. wall and kill them; so
that, it possible, not one should return to give an account of it: they
ordered also that it. should be done with their swords or by knocking
them down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, tor fear of raising an alarm iy the noise.

As they expected, it fell out: three of the routed army tied for
life, and crossin the creek, ran directly into the phloe, not in the
least knowing w iither they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The scout they kept. to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz. that
the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone: upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would
not suffer them to lulhthe three fugitives, but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got- ofi' to
sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawin
themselves into a body together, gave two sereamin shouts, whicr
the supposed was b the way of triumph, and so 1, e fight ended:
an the same day, it out three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
sav res in several years after.

Anita- they were all one, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of attle, they found about two-and-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were hills with great long arrows, some of
which were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were
killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which were
found on the field of battle, and as many bows, with a rest many
arrou's. These swords were strange, rcat, unwieldy tiings, and
they must be very strong men that used them; most of those men
that were killed with them had their heads mashed to ieces, as we
may say, or, as We call it in English, their brains knoc ed out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it was evident they
light with inex ressible ra c and fury. We found not one man that
was not stone- cad, for cit icr they stay by their enemy till they have
quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are not
quite dead away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some
time or other they should fall into the hands of those creatures, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle; and they professed to me, that the thou hts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was suppose that it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that
it nauseatcd their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror, that the were
not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tame even
the three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great
while after, they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalised to the country. But some time after
this, they fell into such measures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.

The had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these three
being usty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and216 am thTllltl'ib' OF ROBINSON CRUSHH.

taught. them to work for them; and as slaves, they did well enough ;
but they did not. take their measures with them as l did by my man
Fridav, via. to begin with them upon the principle ol' having saved
their lives, and then instruct; them in the rational principles of life,-

 

much less of religion, civilizing and reducing them by kind usage
and affectionate arguiings; lmt as they gave them their food every
day, so they gave them their-work too, and kept them fully employed
in drudgery enough: hut thrv I'ailed in this by it, that they never
had them to 'ix'ais't ttn-m, and tight for them, as I had my man Friday.
who was as true to me as the flesh in It)" my hours.

llut to come to the I'amily iart. icing all now good friends, for
common danger, as I said ahove, had etl'eetually reconciled them,
they began to consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing; that came under their (amnideration was. whether, seeing the
mvagcs particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
move their habitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they woald
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they
thought they might hear from their governor a aiu, meaning me;
and if I should send any one to seek them, i shou it be sure to direct
them to that side: where, it they should tind the. place demolished,
they would conclude the savages had killed as all, and we were gone ;
am so our supply would go too. But as to their com and cattle,
they agreed to remove them into the valley where m cave was,
where the laml was as proper for both, and where, indeet , there we!
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of their resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of tieirADVEN'lUnlu or warmest causes. 217

battle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one pan
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had made prisoners, with
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any eatte they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my
coming away But, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation, yet the reed, that as I had carefully covered it
first with a wall or ginniiieation, and then with a grove of trees, so
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the place yet more effectually than before. For this purpose,
as I plantccl trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew
to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my
apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of ground, from the trees l had set, quite down
to the side of the creek, where, as I said, l landed my floats, and
even into the ver ooze where the tide llowcd, not so much as leav-
ing any place to limd, or any sign that there had been any landing
thercuhont; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
as l have noted l'ormerl , they took cure to have them enerally
much larger and taller 1. an those which I had planted; an asthey
grow a ace, so they planted them so very thick and close together,
that w it'll they had been three or four years grown, there was no
piercing with the eye any considerable way into the plantation; and
as for that part which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick
as in man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short
cues, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisade a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to enctrate it, but
wit-ll a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog could hardly
get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for the did the same by all the ground to
the right hand and the left, an round even to the top at the hill,
leavin no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by
the l der placed u to the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and
placed again from the first stage up to the top; and when the adder
was taken down, nothing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist
it, could come at them. This was excellently well contrived; nor
was it less than what they afterwards found occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority 01
Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi
deuce to set it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of
it, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
or lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by
t r way.

2
I return to the story.--They lived two years alter this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given to them one morning, which put them into a.
great consternation ; for some of the Spaniards being out. early one
morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island (which was
that end where I never went, for fear of being,, discovered), they
were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians just
coming on shore. They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all
that. day and the next, going,r out only at night to make their ohser.
ration: but. they had the good luck to be mistaken; for wherever
the savages went, they did not land that lime en the island, but.
pursued some other design.

And now they had another hroil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most. turbulent fellow, heinf: in a rage at. one of the
three slaves, which 1 nn-ntiom-d they had taken, because the fellow
had not. done something right which he hid him do, and seemed a

 

little nntractahle in his showing: him, drew a hatchet. out. of a frog-
hell, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage,
not. to correct him. but to lcill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a harhzu'nus cut. with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, hut struck into his shoulders. so that; he
thought he had cut the poor erealurfis arms oil', ran to him, and en-
trealing him not; to murder the poor man, placed himself hetweeu
him and the savage, to prevent. the mischief. The follow being
enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet.
and wore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage ;
which the Smm'ard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a shovel
which he had in his hand (for they were all working in the field
shout their corn-land) knocked the brute down. Another of the
Englishmen running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked
the Spaniard down; and than two Spaniards more came in to help
their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms, or an other weapons but hatehets and
other tools, exee t this third Enghshman; he had one of my rusty
eutlusses, with w rich he made at the two last Spaniards and wounded
them both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had
been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
with them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, inso many words, that
if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged them;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those
who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it;
but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kind-
ness of an Englishman that they all owed their reservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible nity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them: "For," says he, " I am sure we ought
to sentence them to the gallows 2" and with that he ives an account
how Will Atkins, one of the three, had roposed toisve all the five
Englishmen join together, and murder a the Spaniards when they
were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins,
"How Senhor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to say to that l'" The hardened villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true: and, that they would do it still,
before they had done with them." "Well, but Senhor Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, "what have we done to you, that you will kill
us? And what would you get by killing us P And what must
we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill on, or you kill
us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this, nhor Atkins P"
says the Spaniard, very calmly and smiling. Senhor Atkins was in
such a r e at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not
been helligby three men, and withal had no we: on near him, it was
then ht he would have attempted to have kille the S smard in the
middle of all the company. This heir-brained carriage ob rged them to
consider seriously what was to be done: the two Englishmen, and
the S aniard who saved the cor savage, were of the opinion that
they siliould hang one of the t ee, for an example to the rest; andISO mnnwum or imnmsnn cnuama.

that parficnlarly i1 shunltl he. he that. had twice attempted in commit
murder nilh his linteln'l; anti, intli'ml, Lhercwns some. "fawn 10
believe. he had linnr it. fur the pmr 5.: is was in sneh a miserable
condition will: llll' \rnninl he. had rueeivetl, that il. was thought. he:
could Inn. live. llnl the governor Spaniard still said no; it was nn
Englishman llm: hml saVL-ll all their lives. and In: \mnhl nnvnr enn-
Scnt. to put an Englishman to (lrath, though ht: llllll murdered hall
of lhein; nay. he sziitl. il' ht: had hum: killctl himSI-ll' by an l'ing'lih'h'
man. and had lime lel'L lo spunk, il. shunhl he that. they should
parllnn him.

This was MI Imsilivr'llv insisted on in; lln'. gm-t-i'nnr Spaniard, lhat
lvhm'o "as no gainsaying: its. and as inerx-il'nl <<mum-ls are inna1 :th to
prevail. where iht-y are .<<ai earnestly pl'l'hSt-<l. an they all eanw lulu
1t: hnl than il was lu la- omisitleretl what shunltl in: <<lune to keep
them l'mni cluing the n hit-l they designed: for "ll afxwml,gm'ernnr
and :Ill, that. meanx \w e In he uwtl l'm' tin-st! ing the. sueiely l'l'nln
danger. After :I lungr ill-hale, il. was agreed. lirsl, lhat. Iln-v should
be lllNll'llIt'Il. :lltll llI>l. permitted to haw either gun. 1mm \'llul.
sn'urll. or any wrapnn: and should he. 1nrnutl onl- (yl' lln: sue . _\', and
lull. in live where they would, and how they would. he theuwelres;
lnil. lhal nune ml the rest. either Spaniards or English, slinnltl eon-
V'err-e with them, speak with lhem. or have. writhing: tn lln with
then] : llial lhev :<<hunltl he l'urhitl in Home wilhin a vermin (lislnneu
nl'lhe Plnl't' where. the rest. dwell; and il' lhe)' ull'eretl ln emnmil
niin (lisurtler. so as In spnil, lnn'n. kill. ur destroy any til the cunt,
plantin . building's, fenees. or callle lu-lnnging; I." the. sueiety, they
shunhl (lli' \\'lllllllll mere)", mnl "my would shoot l-hetn \rlnamer they
cnnltl lltlll them.

'l'lms lhe)' (liflnissml "mm the, sm-iely, :tltll l-urnml lln'm out. In
shill for lhenm'lves. 'l'he)' went. |_V sullen anll rel'raclory,
neither eonlem. In gunuay nor to ..la} : but as there was no return}.
they \\'t'l|l. pren-mling in go and chmm- a plat-v "ere they "'(Jlllhl
settle. themselves: nml sunn- pim'isions were. given them, hnl nu
"ll'llllllllfi.

Aliunt fun!" or live (luvs alter, "my (':Ill|(' again lin' simu- \'i('lll;|ls,
and gave the gm'ernnr an neennnl where, they hail [\llCltl'll lheir
tenl. ' and marked litv'nisrlves (ml a haliilmiun anti plantation;
mwl il was a nary vunrenienl lilat'e, intlel'tl. ml the remains! part 0!
llu' island, N.l'i., min-h nhunl =he ninet- where l ltilll pmrith-nlially
landed in my first \'u_\'e,:<<; when l \\'a~' ilriven nnl lo svn, the [arid
niunt' knows whither. ll my l'unlish atlt'ni .'l. ln sail mnntl lln' inland.

llm'e they built lln-iziselrrs ln'u hamllsmne llltlS, aml eunlrivetl
them in n manner liku my lint. liahitaliwn. lml elust- under lln- side
<<if at hill, having sump. trees gruwing already nu lln'ee. sides of it, N)
that by planting others, it. "mild he. very e $ilv covered from the
sight, unless narrowly searched for. They (lesireil some dried mama'-
skins. far beds m' \wcring. which were given them; and nim-mvenrunes or ROBINSON CRUSOE. "1

giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any
of their plantations, they gave them hateln-ts, and what other tools
they con (1 spare; some peas, barley, and rice. for sowing; and, in a
word, :uiytlnng they Wanted, excl-pt arms and ammunition.

They lived in this separate condition ahout six months, and had
got in their first harvest, tho h the quantity was but small, the
parcel of land they had planted eing but. little; for, indeed, having
all their plantation to term, they had a great deal of work upon
their hands; and when they came to make boards and pots, and
inn-h things, they were quite out of their element, and could make
nothing ol' it: and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave
in the earth, they could not keep their rain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humble them much: so tlicv came
and hugged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did;
and in four days worked a hole in the side of the hill for them, hig
(<<tough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was hut .1 poor place, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was then, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made
several new apartments in it.

About, i.limo-quarters of a year after this separation, 11 new frolic
took these rogues, which, together with the former villany they had
eommittml, brought mischief cnounjh upon them, and had very
nearly been the ruin of the whole co (my. The three new associafes
lu-gan, it seems, to he weary of the laborious life they led, and that
without hope of hettering their circumstances; and a whim took
them, that they wouhl make a voyage to the continent, from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
them do the laliorious part of their work for them.

The project was not so preposterous, if they had tvonc no larther :
hut. they (lill nothing, and proposed nothing, but ha either mischief
in the design, or mischiel'in 'he event 2 and, if I may give my opinion,
they seemed to he under a blast from 'llcaven; for il'we will not allow
a visible curse to pursue visible. crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with the divine justice? It. was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
hronght them to the state they were in; and theyr showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villanies to it, such as
tlnv piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding-a poor slave, because he
did not, or perhaps could not, undrrsinml to do what he was directed;
mid to wound him in such it manner as made him a cripple all his
lite, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for
his cure ; and what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it
was, as was afterwards the formed desi they all laid, to murder
the Simuinrds in cold blood and in their 5 con.
'l'lll-I MUTINOIIS ENGLISHMBN lllSMlSSEl) PRO." THE ISLAND--RE-
TURN WITH SEVERAL CAPTIVE SAVAGES--TAKE THE FEMA. ES AS
WIVES--ARRIVAL ()F SAVAGHS.

BUT I leave observingr and return to the story--The three fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms
desired to he admitted to speak with them; the Spaniards very
readily heard what thev had to say, which was this:----<<'l'hat they
were tired of living in the manner they did 3 and that they were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and that having
no help, they found they should he starred; but if the Spaniards
would give them leave to take one of the canoes which they came
over in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned to their
defence, they would go over to the main and seek their fortunes,
and so deliver them from their trouble of supplying them with any
other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were run-
ning into; told them they had sufl'cred such hardships upon that
very spot. that they could, without any spirit of prophecy tell. them
they would be starved, or murdered, and bade them consider of it.

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed
here, for they could not work, and would not work, and they could but
be starved abroad ; mid if they were murdered, there was an end of
them; they had no wives or children to cry after them: and, in
short, insisted im ortunatel u on their demand; deelanng' they
would 0, whetherpthe would give them arms or no.

The 'paniards told t em, with great kindness, that if they were re-
solved to go, the should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to delen themselves: and that though they could ill spsre
their lire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets, a pistol and a cutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to
serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they
could eat while it was sweet, and a. great basket of dried grapes, a
pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
gum; for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles

['03 .

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to mans 0; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood tide with
them, they di well enough. They had made a mast of along pole,
and a sail of four large goats'-skins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enou h ; the S aniards
called alter them, Bum triage,- and no man ever drought o seeing
them any more.

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the two
honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfort-
ably they lived, now these three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their comin again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts
that could e im ined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days'
absence, one of theafinglishmcn, being abroad upon his plantin work,
sees three stranrre men coming towards him at a distance, wit guns
upon their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, comes fri ht-
ened and amazed to t to governor Spaniard, and tells him that t ey
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, but
could not tell who. The Spaniards, pausing awhile, says to him,
" How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the saw es,
be sure." " No, no," says the Englishman: "they are men in clot es,
with arms." " Nay, then," says the Spaniard, "wh are you con-
cerned? If they are not savages. they must be frien s; for there is
no Christian nation upon earth but what will do us good rather than
harm."

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood, which was new lanted, hallooed to them,
they resently knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that kind
cease . But now the admiration was turned upon anothe' question,
viz, Vtht could be the matter, and what made them come back

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring whereiii uvznronns or nonxnsozv ennsom

they had been, and what they had been domg, they ve them a full
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That t ey reached the
land in two days, or something less; but finding the peo le alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to ght them,
they durst not no on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or
seven hours, tillthey came to a. great opening, by which they per-
ceived that the land they saw from our island was not the main, but
an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the riwht hand, north, and several more west; and having
resolved to land, somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which
lay west, and went boldly on shore: that they found the people very
courteous and friendly to them; and that they gave them several
roots and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women as well as the men were very forward to supply them with
anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a.
great way upon their heads.

They continued here four days : and inquired, as well as they
could ol' them, by signs, whet nations were this way, and that way;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost;
every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said, they never out men or women,
except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind;
and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and
to two lingers; and that their great kingr had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to
make them fat for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty
desirous of seeing thOse prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some. of them to carry away for
their own eating; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next
morning at sunrising they would bring some for them; and accor-
dingly, the next rimming, they brought down five women, and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a
seaport town to victual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentrv that could be offered them, and what. to do with them
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the save that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, an six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they did not understand their use,
they seemed particularly pleased with ; and then tying the poor creaa
turres' hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the be>> for
Our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work with
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and per-
haps have invited the donors to dinner. But having taken t eir
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where on either side, they understood not one word they could
say, they put elf with their boat, and came back towards the first
island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at
liberty, there being too man of them for their occasion.

In their voyage, they on eavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of all unbound them ; but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to he killed. If they gave them anything to eat it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink in
flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If the looked at one of
them more particularly, the party presently cone uded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly,
and treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or su per for their new masters.

W zen the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come 11 to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the ot er two
Englishmen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to .go all down
to the place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore, the bound their hands, that they
might not take the boat and make 1; eir escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well'shapcd, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more, not above four or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been Iperfect
white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in ondcn
itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour, es iall when they came afterwards to he clothed and
dressed, as t or cal ed it; though that dress was very indifferent.
it must he confessed.3% A))\'l-'.N'l'll'lth or nomxson causes.

The sight, you may he sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards. who were. to give them a just character, men of the heat
behaviour, of the most ealnl, sedate. tempers, and perfect good
humour. that. ever l met with; and, in particular. of the most
modest, as will presemly appear: I say, the sight was ver uncouth,
to see three naked men and live naked women, all toget ier hound,
and in the most. miserahle. eireumstaaees that human nature could
be, supposed to he, viz. to be expecting every moment to be. dragged
out, and have. their hrains knoeked out, and then to he eaten up like
u ealt' that is killed for a dainty.

'l'lle tirst thing; they did was to cause the old Indian. Friday's
father, to go in. and see. tirst, it he knew any of them. and thenI if
he understood any at their speech. As soon as the old man eana:
in, he. looked seriously at them, but knew none. of them; neither
eould any ot' them understand a word he. said, or a sign he eonld
Make, except one of the. women. However. this was enough to
answer the. end, whieh was to sat isty them that. the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they ahhorrml eating
area or women; and that they might be sure. they would not he
killed, As soon as they were assured of this, they dise. vered such
a joy. and hy sue-h a\\'k\\-'ard gestures. several ways, as is hard to
deserihe; for, it seems they were. of sereral nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was hid, in the. next place,
to ask them it they were. willing to he servants, and to work for the.
men who had brought them away. to save their lives; at which they
all tell a dancing; and presently one tell to taking' up this, and ano-
ther that. anything that lay next, to earry on their shoulders, to
intimate that they were willing: to work.

The. governor, who found that the having wmnen moon them
would presently he attended with some incmm~nienee, am miuht
oeeasion some. strife, and Ierhaps hlood, asked the three men w art
they intended to do with these women, and whether they intended to
make them servants or wives? One of the Englishmen answered
very holdly and readily. that they would make them hoth; to which
the governor said: " I am not going to restr a vou from it; you
are your own mmters as to that; hut this .I think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you
for that reason only, viz. that you will all engave, that if any of you
take. any of these women. that while you stay tore, the woman any
of you takes, should he. maintained by the. man that takes her, and
should be his wife." All this appeared so jult, that every one agreed
to it without any diliicnlty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards it' the designed ta
take any of them? But every one of them nuswere no: some of
them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like
women that were not: Chriltiuus: and all together declared that they
would not have one. of them. On the 0th" hand, to be short, tlu
live l'higliislnnen took every one of them a wile: and so they set up
s: new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's lather lived in
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The
three servants which were taken in the late battle of the savages

 

lived with them; and thezse carried on the main part of the colony,
supplictl till the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as
they could. or as they found necessity required.

But the wonzler of the story was, how live such refractory, i11-
mutehed fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison more agreeable than the
others; but they took it good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves, for they set the live women by themselves in
one of their huts, and they went all into the other hut, and drew
lots among them who should choose first.

Ilethut drew to choose first went away by himself to the but
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that
was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the live, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but
the fellow considered better than any of them, that it was appli-
cation and business they were to expect assistance in, as much
as inl anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
wee .

l When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one hv one. the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and they firmly believed they were now going to be de-
voured. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and affec-
tion as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; not
was it asihle for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they we"
not to 0. immediately nun-tiered, till they fetched the old mun,
Fridu 's hither, whn immediately let them know that the five men,
who nut t'etehed them out one by one, had chosen them for their
wives.

When they hzul done, and the. fright. the. women Were. in wns n
little over, the men went. to work, and the Spaniards emne and
'Ielped them ; und in a few hours they had huilt I hem every one a. new
hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those the had ..lrem|y were
crowded with their tools, household atntl', run provxsiens. The
three wicked ones had piIened farthest 011', and the two honest (mes
nearer, but both en the north shore of the. ish-nu, so l-llat they enn-
timml separated us before; and thus my isltutei was peepted in three
duet-s; and. us 1 might. sny, three towns were (mmmeneed In he
lmilI,

And here it is verv welt wnrth uhserving. tim', it often happens
in the werld (what the wise ends of God's providence It"), in such It
disposition nt' things, 1 ennnet.::Iy),t.he.tn'n honest fellows had the turn
worst wives; and the three. reprehn. s thnI were s 'm'ee worth hang-
ing, Ilmt were. tit for nothing. Inul neither seemed hurn In de them-
Jelves good, nor any one else, Imd three elerer. diligent, careful. and
ingeniuur wives: net that. the first. twu were haul wives, us In their
temper or humour, fer nll the live. were must, willing. quiet. passive,
and snhjeL'tI-d erentnres, rnther like slnres Ilnni \viV'es; hnt my
nu-nning is, they were not alike capuhle, ingenious, orimluatriens, 0r
nlihe eh-nnly mnl neat.

Another ehservuliun i must make, to the hennnr of n diligent
nppliealinn. on une hand, mid to the disgrnee of n stutht'ul. negli-
gent, idle temper. on the other. that. when l eume to the place, and
viewed the. severnl imprm'enwnls, plantings, and management of the
severnl little eelnnies, the two men had sn t'nr nntgmie the three,
that there. was In) emnlnu'isun. They lmd. indeed. huth uf them Its
mueh ground laid out t'nr enrn us they \rnnted, and the re: son was,
heennse, Inwnrding to my rule. nntnre (lit 1 thnt it 'ns to no
purpose to sew nmre mm than they wanted; but the difierenee ei
Ihe enlti 'ntien, of the planting, of the. fences, and, indeed, of every-
thing else, "as easy In be seen at first View.

The two men Imd innumerable young: trees planted nhmlt their
huts, sn that. when yen ennn' t0 the pl:1ee.lmthing was II) he seeu
hut. weed; and though they had twu'e hml their Ilnnlutinn demu-
lished. unee by their own eouutrymen. and enee h lhe enemy, us
shall he strewn in its" place, yet the hnd l't'Sl-ul'tflf all again, and
everything n'ns thriving and tlouris ting: nhnnt them . they had
$33" planted in urder, and managed like a vineyard, thnugh they

; themselves never seen anything of tlmt kind ; and by their gnod
ordering,r their vines, Iheir grates were as gum! ngnin its any (It the
nthem. They had also t'mmdt amaelves out. a retreid in the thiekes'
tart ot' the woods; where, though there was not a. natural cave, as I
lnnl l'ouml, yet they made one with incessant. labour of their hands,
and where, when the. mischief which followed happened, they
snout-ed their wives and children, so as they could never be found;
thrif having, hy stinking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood
width as I, said. grow so readily, 1""th the grove un mssahle, except
in soon: plat-vs where they climhml up to gvt over he outside part,
and than \wnt mt hy ways of their own leaving.

 

As to the three roprolmtms, as l justly call them, though they
were much cirilizml by tzln-ir settlmnont, compared to what they
were hot'nrr. and were not so qnart'clsotne, having not the same
opportunity _: yet. one of thr ('('l'litlll companions of a profligatc mind
ll('\'\'l' h-t't them, and that. was their idleness. .lt is true, they planted
mm. and made tenet-s; but Solomon's \\'Ul'(l$ were never hatter verified
than in llfl'lll, " l went by the vineyard of the slothtul, and it was
all overgrmrn with tlmrnsf' for when the Spaniards 0.:th to View
their l'l'Ol), the)r rould not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge
had several ga is in it, whet". the wild goats had got in and eaten up
the mm; per taps horn and there adrad hush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-
tlnul' after the steed \\ as stolen '. whereas, when they looked on the
rnlony ot' the other two, there was the very face of industry and
mun-v>>- upon all thrv did; there was not a wood to be seen in all
their corn, or n gap in any of their hedges: and they, on the other
hand. \'rritiod Solmuou's Words in another place, "that the dili ent
hand nnnkcth rich ;" for every thing grow and thrived, and they ad
plenty within and without: they'll-ad more tame cattle than the
others, more utensil>>: and naccssarivs within doors, and yet. more
pleasure and diversion too.930 wvwrimm or maniacs censor.

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly
within doors, and having learned the English ways at dressing and
cooking from one of the, other Englishmen, who, as 1 said, was a
cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals
verv nicelv and well: whereas the others could not he brought to
understand it: but then the husband, who, as I say, had been
eook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands ol' the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eg s, and caught tish and
birds; in a word, anything but labour, and iiiey fared iweordingly.
'l'ho diligent lived Well and comfortably: and the slotlit'ul lived hard

and begigarly; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over
the. wor i

l.
But. I now come to a scene difl'erciit from all that. hail happened
before, either to them or tome; and the original of the story was
this: Early one morning, there came on shore live or six canoes of
Indians or savages, call them which you dense, and there is no doubt
they came upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves; but
that. part was now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves aioiit it, as I did: but having
been made sensible, by their experience, that their oiin business was
to lie eoneealed, and that. it' they were not seen by any of the
savages, they would go otl' i 'ain quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the east notion of there being any inhabi-
tants in the island; 1 say, having been made sensible of this, they
had nothing to do but. to give notice. to all the. three plantations to
keep " ithiii doors, and not show themselves, only placnig a scout iii
a. proper place, to give notice when the boats went to s 'a again.
This was. Vt'It-lltlllt doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these. measures, and made it known among the savages that. there
were inhabitants there; wliieh was. in the end, the. desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the. canoes with the sava res were
gone olT, the Spaniards peepeil abroad again ; and some of t iem liiid
the curiosity to '0 to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they l'ound
three. sn 'ages lel't. behind, and lying fast aslee ) upon the ground.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it ha pened, was
with them, and his advice was asked, but he rot'essed ii -. knew not
what to do. [\s for slaves, they had enoiigi already; and is to
killing them. they were none or them incliiied to that: the S )anish
governor told me, they could not think or shedding: innocent )lood:
t'or as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And here I must, in Justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that. let. the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what. they will, I never met. with seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, tern ernte, virtuous, so very od-humoured. and
so courteous, as these pnniards; and as to cruel y, they had nothing
of it in their very nature: no inhumanity, no burbsrity, no out-
rageous lllSSlOllB; and yet all of them men of reat cour e and
s irit. 'i'heir temper and calmness had appeared in their caring
tie insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humnnity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above
After some consultation, they resolved u n this: that they would
lie still it while lon er, till, if possible, ticse three men might be
gone. But then 1. e governor Spaniard reeolleeted, that the three
snvnges had no heat; and if they were left to rave about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so
thev should be undone that way. U on this they went back again,
and there lay the fellows fast asleep Sit-Kl, and so they resolved to waken
tin-m, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows
were strangely frightened when they were seized u on and bound;
and nfruidflike the women. that they should be mur ercd and eaten:
for it seems those people think all the world does as they do, eating
men's ilesh; but they Were soon made easy as to that, and away
they curried them.

it was very happy for them that they did not curry them home to
their castle, 1 mean to my palace under the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c. ; and after-
Wurtls thry carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was b negligence in guarding them, or
that they thou ht the fellows eouid not mend themselves, I know
not, but one 0 them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in
some other heels or canoes of savages who cums on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels as usual
went off in two days time. This thought terrified them exceedingly;
for the concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if
this fcl ow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island, and also how
low and week they were: for this snv "'e, as I observed before, had
never been told, and'it was very happy re had not, how many there
were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any
of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their other
retired )lsccs; such as the cove m the vslle , or the new retrest
which he two Englishmen had made, and the ike.

The first testimon they end that this fellow had given intelligence
of them was, that, ut two months after this, six canoes of savages,
with about seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing)e on;

the north side of the island, where they never used to some fore,m ADWN'HTRII or murmur mum.

and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a side from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped
man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of
room would have escaped ; but the case difi'vrcd now very much, for
two men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happi-
ness to discover them about a league off, so that it was above an
hour before they landed ; and as they lauded about a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now.
having great reason to believe that. they were betrayed, the lirst
thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three men who were brought with the women (who
it seems proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two
wires, and whatever they could curry away with them, to their re-
tired places in the. woods. which I have spoken of above, and there
to bind the two follows ln'oul and foot, till they heard further.

in the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore. and
that they had hrnt their course directly that way, ihcy openvd the
fences where the milch goals were kept, and drove them all out ;
leaving their {routs to struggle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that the savages might think they were all hrcd wild; but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for they went. directly to the place.

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent the other slave lhey had of the three who came with
rho women, and who was at the place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and, in lhc mean time, they look their urns and what. ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated lowards the place in the wood where their
wires were sent; hm'ping' at u dis-tuner, yet so that they might see,
if possible which way the savages took.

They had not gone fur, but that from a rising: ground they could
ace the little army of their enrmirs come on directly to their
huhitnrinu. and, in :1 minute more, could see all their huts and house-
hold shill' flaming up together, to their great grief and mortilication ;
for they had uvery great loss, to them irretricvahlc, at least for some
time. They kept their station for a while, till they found the savages,
like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way and every place they could think of, in search of prey;
and in particular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared
they had intelligence.

The two Englisnmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it' was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they might come too many together, though'
it proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther; believin

as it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together./// j; ,

<<57/,

SECTION XXX \" I.

SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMAINDER LEAVE THE ISLAND--
A FLEET OF THEM APTERWARDS ARRIVEHA GENERAL BATTLE--
'lHE SAYAGES ARE OVEKCOME, AND TRANQUILITY RESTORED.

THEIR. next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown art of
the woods and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was rollow
and vastly large ; and in this tree they both took their standing, re-
solving to see there what might offer. They had not stood there
long, before two of the savages appeared running directly that way,
as if they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up
to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more com-
ing after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at adistance run-
ning another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sports-
men heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great pcrplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fl ; but, after a very short debate
with themselves, they censidere , that if the savages ranged the
country thus before help came, they mi ht perhaps find out their re-
treat in the woods, and then all woul be lost: so they resolved to
stand them there; and if they were too many to deal with, then they
would get up to the top of the tree, from whence they doubted not
to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition

0
meted, though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.

llaring resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should the al the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the
middle party, by which the two and the fire that followed would be
separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, un-
1055 they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them.
The first two savages confirmed than also in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards another part of the wood; but
the three, and the mo alter them, came forward directly to the tree,
as it" they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them
come so straight Inward them, they resolved to take them in a line
as they came; and as May resolved to fire but one at a time, )erhaps
the. first shot. might hit. lhcm all three: for which purpose, the man
who was to fire put three or four small bullets into his piece; and
having a fair loop role, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within
abour thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not. miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, il' possible, he should not osmipe, though they should both fire ;
so the. other stood ready with his piece, that. if he did not drop at the
first shot, he shmdd be sure to have a second. lint the first was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the savages kept near one
uuol her, a little behind, in a line, he fired, and hit two of them
directly : the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head ; the
second, which was the runaway lndian, was shot through the body,
and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, n-rnaps by the same ball that went through the
body of the. second; and being dreadfull frightened, though not so
much hurt, sat down upon the grown, scrczuning and yelling in u
hideous manner.

The live that were behind, more frightened with the noise than
sensible ol' the danger, stood still at first: for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling
from one side to another, and the [owls rising from all parts, scream-
ing, and every sort nmkimr a dill'erent noise, according to their kind;
just as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever shot
oil in the island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowinn' what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the 13am where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough ; and here the
poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that the were within reach of
the some mischief, stood all of a huddle over t 1e wounded mm, talk-
ing, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt: and who. it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flush
of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from their (is, had
killed those two and wounded him: this, I say, is ratio ; for no-
thing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a gun in all their hves, nor so much as heard of a
gun ; neither knew t ev any thing of killing and woundin at a dis-
tance with fire and bullets: if they had, one might reasons ly believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of
their fellows, without some a prehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, not ey confessed to me, it grieved them
to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
rower, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let it;

' g out, by agreement, whim

oth together among them; and swim
to aim at, they shot together, and ' ed, or very much woundnl.

four of them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt,
fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns,
which was a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when
the came to the place, and found no less then four of them alive,
an of them two-ver little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged
them to fell upon em with the stocks of their muskets; and first
they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of
all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put
them out of their pain: then the man that was hurt not at all came
and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous means to them, by jestures and si , for his life, but could
not say one word to them that they can dunderstand. However,
they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by;
and one of the Englishmen, with apiece of rope twined, which s
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: and with what speed they could made after
the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once
in sigtllit of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however
they ad the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the
sea, quite the contrary way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afraid of ; and being satisfied with that, they went
back to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as the suppos-
ed, was delivered by his comrades, for he was gone, an the two

ieces of rope-yarn, with which they had bound him, lay just at the
oot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers;
so they resolved to go away to the place were their wives were, to236 wvsmonm or 'Roninson causefi.

see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough, to be sure; for though the sav fires were their own country-
folk, yet they were most terribly atrdid of them, and perhaps the
more for the 'knowlcd e they had of them.

When tney came tiere, they found the sava es had been in the
wood, and very near that place, but had not foun it: for it was in>
deed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as unless the
persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not: they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in a terrible fright. While they were here, they had the
comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance -, the
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's
father, were gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country, but they (lid not spread so for.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the thm- sarages who, as 1
said, were their prisoners formerl ; and with them also came the
savage whom the Englishmen h. left bound hand and foot at the
tree: for it seems, they came that way, saw the slaughter of the
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they
had the two others who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to be a burthcn to them; and thev were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to kill them
all, believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for
their owa preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not
consent to it; but, ordered, for the present, that the should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be 'ept there, with
two Spaniards to uztrd them, and give them food for their subsis-
tence, which was one; and they were bound there hand and foot
for that night.

When the S aninrds came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they coud not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there;
but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, With four mnskets
and a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-strives, away they
went in nest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men ay that had been killed; but it was eas to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they hat? attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a rood way, but.
had given it over. From thence they advanced to, tie first risin
ground, where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, ant
where they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke: but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible caution, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came thither, com' in sight of
the sea-shore, Ihev saw plainly the savages all r'mbfii'ied again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed aon'y, at first, that
there was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
hint, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
t em.

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their im-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and hel them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needl'ul sup lies. '1' ieir three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for havin t e least inclination
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard 0 it all" they living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till was over), came
and offered their help and asslstanee, and did, very friendly, work for
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for
them. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon their legs
again.

About two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driv' on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: y which the had
reason to believe that the had met with a storm at sea, whic had
(overset some of them; or it had blown very hard the night after
thev went ofi.

owcver, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature; which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with sutlicient force to carry all before them: for except what
the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could as little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man, an the fellow
being killed that had afiirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm
it to them.

It was five or six months after this before they heard 1:13 more
of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they either
forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when,
On a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no
less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of save , armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, an such-like e ' s of
war ; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in s ort, it
put all our people into the utmost consternation

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved,
first of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two
Englishmen, and drive awa their goats to the old cave ; because they
sup osed the savages woul go directly thither _as soon as it was da ,
to p ay the old game over again, though they did not new land wrt -
in two leagues of it. In the next lace, the drove weigh the
flocks of goats they had. at the old wet, as called it. w ' h be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants any where as was ossiblc: and the next morning early
the; posted themselves, with all) their force, at the plantation of the
two men, to wait for their comin . As they guessed, so it hap en-
rd: these new invaders, leaving t eir canoes at the east end 0 the
island, came ranging alone the shore, directly towards the place, to
the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could
judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that which was worse,
they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account,
it seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five En-
glishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with
the women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who
lived with the Spaniards. 'l'o arm these, the ' had eleven mnskets,
five pistols, three fending-pieces, five mus cts or fowling- ieces
which were taken by me from the mntinons seamen whom I re need,
two swords, and three old halberds.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuse, but they
had every one a halberd, or a long stall, like a quarter--staff, with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a
hateth ; also every one of Our men had a hatchet. Two of the women
could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the light,
and they had bows and arrows, which tue Spaniards had taken from
the saw. es when the first action happened, which I have spoken of,
Where t 6 Indians fought with one another; and the women had
hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded
the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness, was a most during, bold fellow, eonnnzmded under him.
The savages came forward like lions; and our men, which was the
worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situation -, only that
\Vill Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men,
was (planted just behind a small thicket ol' bushes, as an advanced
guar , with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then lire into
the middle of them, and as soon as he had tired, to make his retreat
as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in be-
hind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees be-
fore them,

When the savages came on, they ran str "glint; about every way

in heaps, out. of all manner of order, and l" l Athins let about lift
of them ass by him; then seeing the rest come in a ver thic:
throng, e orders three of his men to fire, having loade their
muskets with six or seven bullets a piece, about as bit? as large
pistol bullets. How man they killed or wounded they inew not,
nt the consternation an surprise was inexpressible among the
sav es; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such a
drew in] noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see
nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, Will Atkim
and his other three let ll again among the thickest of them; and in
less than a minute the first three being loaded again, gave them a
third volley.

llad Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
the had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the
be y been at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among
them came rincipally from this, viz. that they were killed by the
gods with t under and lightning, and could see nobod that hurt
them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovers the cheat;
some of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
u on them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at them
a , two or three times, and illed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow-Englishmen, with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
S mniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most allaut fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing five of them with his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a risinrr ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after firing three vollleys upon them, retreated also;
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that
though above fifty of them were killed, and more than as many
wounded, et they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, an shot their arrows like a crowd; and it was observed
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made
outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen.

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English-
man that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they
came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner,
breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages; but finding our men were gone, they did
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves 11 in a ring, which
is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
victory; after which they had the mortifieation to see several of
their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little bod up tooether
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounde , would, have
had them march and charge again all together at once; but the
Spaniard replied: "Senhor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fight; let them alone till morning; all the wounded men will
be still' and sore with their Wounds, and faint with the loss of blood:
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was good;
but Will Atkins replied merrily: "That is true, senhor, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would on while I am warm."
" Well, Senhor Atkins," says the Spaniar , " you have behaved gal,NO mun-runs or memoir mm.

hntly, and done your part; we will light for you, if you cannot
come on; but I think it best to stay till morning.' So they
waited.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their cod and wounded men, and a great
noise and hurry among them where they lay, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night, especially if they could come
to ive them but one vollev before they were discovered. which they
be a fair opportunity to do; for one of the Englishmen, in whose
quarter it was where the light began, led them round between the
woods and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them: in half a minute more, eight others fired
after them, pouring in their small shot in such quantity, that
abundance were killed and wounded; and all this while they were
not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition. and then
divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to full in among
them altogether. They had in each body eight persons, that is to
say, twenty-two and the. two women, who, by the way fought des-
peratel . They divided the lire-arms e ually in each party, and so
the h herds and staves. They would (have had the women heit
back. but they said they were resolved to die with their husbnn s.
Having thus formed their little army, they nmrehed out from mnon
the trees, mid came up to the teeth ol the enemy, shouting an
hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood altogether, but
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shoutina
from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had
seen us; for as soon as we cmue near enough to be seen, some
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dangerously; but our men gave them no time, but, runni up to
them, fired ,amon them three ways, and then fell in with lilie butt~
ends of their mus 'ets, their swords, armed stoves, and hatehets, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a. dismal
screamin and howling, flying to save their lives which way socver
the con d.

ur men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them;
the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the
woods and over the hills, with all the. speed fear and nimble feet
could help them to; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disasters were not at an end
yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
to that it was impossible for them to go 03' ; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most 0!
tnem driven by the surge of the see. so hi h upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them off ; an some of them were even
dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.

V Our men, thouvh glad of their victor , yet get little rest that ni ht;
but having refreshed themselves as wel as they could, they reso red
to march to that part of the island where the savages were tied, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the

 

poor creatures not quite (lead, and yet est reeoverin life; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous min 3; for a tr y great man,
though obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
delight in his misery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dispatched these poor creatures with their hal-chcts.

At length, they came in View of the place where the more miser-
able remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about
a hundred still: their posture was generally sittln upon the
ground, with their knees up towards their mouth, and t no head put
hetween the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.

When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to he fired, without ball, to
alarm them: this he did, that by their countenance he might know
what to expect, viz. whether t ey were still in heart to light, or
were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discouraged, and so
he might manage accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as
the savages 'heard the first gun and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation ima-
ginable; and as our men advanced swiftly toward them, they all
ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before: and thus
they ran up the hills into the country."42 wvnnrms or 11013116302: canton.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might robably have been the occasion of their coming again
in such in titude-s as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so
many, and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve
them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstandi 0 his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in t is case: his
advice was, to take the advantage that oifered, and clap in between
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacrty of ever
returning any more to plague the island.

They consulted long about this; and some were against it, for
fear of making the wretches fly to the woods and live there des--
perate, and so they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be
afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plantation
continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, he
reduced to a life of continual distress.

Will Atkins told them the had better have to do with a hun-
dred men than with a hundre nations; that as the must destroy
their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them de-
stroved themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it
so plainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-
diately with the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a
dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire, but they were so
wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as
boats. When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them
came run ' <<7 out of the woods, and coming as near as they oculd
to our men, 'neelcd down and cried: "0a, 0a, Warnmokoa," and
some other words of their language, which none of the other:
understood anything of ; but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was eas to understand they begged to have their
boats spared, and that t ey would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men were now satisfied that they" had no way to
preserve themselves or to save their colony, but e actually to (hire.
vent any of these people from ever going home again; depen ' g
upon this, that if even so much as one of them got back into their
country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, letting
them know that they should not have any mercy, they fell to wort:
With their canoes, and destroyed them every one that the storm had
not destroyed before: at the siwht of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island like distracted men, so that,
in a word, our men did not really know at first what to do with
them. Nor did the S aniards, with all their prudence, consider
that while they made 1'; cse eople thus desperate, they ought to
have kept a good guard at t 6 same time upon their plantations;
for though, it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and themvsmuass or stomach 0311803. 243

Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines
and gra es, being just then almost ripe, and did our men an inesti--
mable amage, though to themselves not one farthing's worth of
semce.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they
found them single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had
no weapons; for though they had hows, the had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had t ey any edge-tool or
wea on among them.

T e extremity and distress they were reduced to was great and
indeed deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances by them; for thong their retreats were
preserved, get their revision was destroye , and their harvest
spoiled; an what to 0, or which way to turn themselves they knew
not. The on] refuge they had now was, the stock of cattle they
had in the v ey by the cave, and some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his
comrades, who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed
by an arrow, which struck him on the side of the head, just under the
temple, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable,
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and
rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn and
my tame cattle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves
upon the island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the
farther part of the island, south-west, that if an more savages came
on shore the might not find one another; t en that they would

' y hunt an harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if the could
at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they wo d fie

3"

them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live upon their
labour.

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified tnem win

their ,thatinafewdays,ifan ofthemfiredagunatanImiiz,
if he mot hit him, yet he wouhifall down for fear ' ami so dreadp
fullv frightened they were, that they kc t out. of sight farther and
l'an'r'ner; till, at last, our men followmg 1. mm, and alinost every dnv
killing or wounding: some of them, they kept up in the woods or
hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the utmost miserv
for Want of food _; and many were afterwards found dead in the wood;
without any hurt, absolutely starved to death. ,

When our men found this, it made their hearts relont, and pitv
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
gentlennm-like, generous-minded man that I ever met with in my
life; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
living hnn to understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go among them, and see. if they might be brought
to some conditions that might be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm. '

 

It was some while hefore any of them could be taken; but bcins1r
weal: and half-starved, one of them was at. his: surprised and made in
prisoner. lie was sullen at, first, and would neither eat nor drink :
hut finding himself kindly used, and vietunls given him, and no vio-
lence otl'rred him, he at his" grew tractable, and come to himself.
They brought, old Friday to him, who talked ol'urn \rilh him, and mid
him how kind the others would he to them all: that they would not
only save their lives, hm would give them part of the island to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction That they would keep in
their own hounds, and nor. come beyond it to injure or prejudice
others; and that lll('_\' should have com given them to plant and
make it grow for thvir bread, and some bread given them for their
present subsistence ; and old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with
the rest of his countrymen, and see what the said to it ; assuring
them, that if they did not. agree immediate y, they would be all

dastroyed.wvemnea or mnmsox cursors. Ma

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first odor, and
begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards
in: two Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to
:akes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of ; for, except when they came
to beg victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds
aiid there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see
t cm.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they
soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a. neck of
land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying lain
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the is d.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a. half broad, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives; and there they hved, the most subjected, innocent creatures
that ever were heard of.

After this, the colony enj ycd a perfect traniiluillity with respect
to the savages, till I came to revisit them, w ich was about two
years after; not. but that, now and then, some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trium hal, unnatural feasts; but as they
were of several nations, and pcriaps had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make an search or
inquiry after their countrymen; and if they had. it woul have been
very hard to have found them out.

Thus, I think, 1 have given a full account of all that happened to
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them. and they frequently
went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them, because they would not have their settle-
ment betrayed again. One thine was very remarkable, viz. that they
taught the savages to make wic er-work, or baskets, but they soon
outdid their masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious
things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
cagcs, cupboards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
and abundance of other thing's, being very ingenious at such work.
when they were once put in t e wav of it.
RUBINSOX LEARNS FROM THE Sl'ANIARDS THE DIPPICULTIES THE!
HAD TO ENCOUSTER--HE FIZRKISHBS THE PEOPLE WITH TOOLS,
VIC--TEE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC.

ILWING thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the may body oi the family, and in whose
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that
country; that. they were a. poor, miserable, and dejected handful of
people; that if means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of
their misfortunes, that they thoun'ht of nothing but starving. One
of them, a grave sensible man, told me he was convinced they Were
in the. wrong; that ii. was not the part of wise men to give them-
selves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which
reason ofl'cred, as well for present. support as for future deliverance:
he told me that icf was the most senseless insignificant passion in
the world, for hot it re ardcd only things past, which were gone--
rally impossible to be reca led, or to be remedied, but had no views
of things to come, and had no share in anything that looked like
deliverance, but rather added to the affliction than proposed a
remedy ; and upon this he repeated 3 Spanish proverb, which though
I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own thus :

In trouble to be troubled.
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in my solitude; m unwearicd application, as he called it; and
how I had made a con 'tion which in its eiremnstnnces was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs
was even now when they were all together. He told me it was
remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than any people he ever met With; that their unhappy
nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in the world to
struggle with misfortunes; for that their fiist step in da ers, after
the common efforts were over, was to despair, lie own un er it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
esca e.

IItold him their case sad mine difi'ered exceedingly; that the
were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of foo ,
or resent sustenance till they could provide it ; that, it was true, I
had) this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the
supplies I had providentinlly thrown into my hands, by the unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I
had done. " Seiilior," says the Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been
in your case, we should never have got half those things out of the
slii , us you did; nay," says he, "we should never have found means
to ave got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone!" Well, I desired him to abate his complaint,
and go on with the history of their comi on shore, where they
lauded. He told me they unhappily lande at a place where there
were peo le without provisions; whereas had they had the common
sense to iave ut off to see. again, and gone to another island a little
farther, they liad found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were
provisions, though no ople ; that is to say, that the Spaniardsof

'rinidad had frequently? been there, and had filled the island With
goats and bows at several times, where they had bred in such multi-
tudes, and w iere turtle and seafowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, tho h they had found no
bread; whereas here, they were only sustaine with a few roots and
herbs, which they understood not and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they woul turn cannibals,
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country. _

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to cmhne
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it
upon them, as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them food; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the
instructors of others but those who could live without them. '

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes they were many days Without food at all, the
Island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that
liven more indolent. and for that reason were less supplied With the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in the
same part of the world ; and yet. they found that. these savages were
less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of
food. Also they added, they could not. but see with what demon-
strations of wisdom and goodness the ovcming providence of God
directs the events of things in the worl ; which, they said, appeared
in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the lmrrcnncss of the country where they were, they had
searched after a. hotter to live in, they had been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to no out with them into their wars; and, it.
was true, that as they had fire-arms with them had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have been serviceable
not only to their friends, but have made l-ll!' nsnlres terrible both to
friends and enemies ; but being without powder and shot, and yet in
a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars, so when they cann- into the field of battle,
they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves; for
they had neither hows nor arrows, nor could they use those the
savages frave them ; so they could do nothing- but stand still, and be
wounded, with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three halbcrds they had were of use to them:
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with
those halbcrds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their
mnskets; but that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not,
and these covered them from the arrows of the savages; yet, not-
withstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken risoner,
that is to sa , the Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at rst they
thought ha been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest icf imaginable,
and would willingly have all Ventured their lives to live rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they
were come to themselves, all but him who they thouvht had been
dead; and then they made their way with their halbercfs and pieces,
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
sail-ages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victor"
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was wit
the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding him alive,
curried ed", with some others, as I gate an account before.mummies or scam-ox causes. "9

They described most affectionately how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who, they
thought, had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, vim,
by wild men; and yet how much more the were surprised
with the account he gave them of his errand, an that there was a
Christian in. any place near, much more one that was able, and had
humanity enough, to contribute to their deliverance.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
I sent them, and at the appearance of leaves of bread, things they
had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; how often
they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a revivin r cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things Iliad sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat
and pilots, to carry them awuv to the person and lace from whence
all these new comforts came, but it was impassib e to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally drivmg them to unbeco '
extravaganccs, they had no way to describe them, but by telling me
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them
through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark
mad, and others immediately faint. This discourse extremely aifected
me, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father,
and the poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at see after their
ship was on fire; the jo of the mate of the ship when he found
himself delivered in the p ace where he expected to perish; and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years' captivit , I found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All t ese things made
me more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more
afi'eeted with it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the con-
dition in which I left them. It was their 0 inion, and mine too,
that they would be troubled no more with t e savages, or, if they
were, they would be able to cut them elf, if they were twice as
many as before; so they had no concern about that, Then I entered
into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not be just to carry off some and leave others,
who, perhaps, would be unwillin to stay if their strength was
diminished. On the other hand, told them I came to establish
them there, not to remove them: and then I let them know that I
had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had
been at 3 eat charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for t eir convenience us their defence; and that I had such
:md such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit

R
their number, as by the particular necessary employments which
they were bred to, being urtificers, to assist them in those things
in which they were at present in want.

They were altogether whenl talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by
one, if they had entirety forgot and buried the first anilnosities that
had been among them, and would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict frie :dship and union of interest, that so there
might be no more misunderstandings and jealousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said,
they had met with alliietion enough to make them all sober, and
enemies enon'rh to make them all friends; that, for his part, he
would live an die with them; and was so far from designing any-
thing against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to him but what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and pcrha is worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if 1 esired it, for the foolish and brntish
things he had done [0 them, and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years.

The Spaniards said they hurt, indeed, at first disarined and exclu-
ded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as
they had let me know, and they appealed to me for the necessit-V
they were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself
so bravely in the. great ii ht the had with the savages, and on
several occasions since, and; had stowed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they had for-
gotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them:
and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the
command to him, next to the overnor himself; and as they had
entire confidence in him, and a his countrymen, so thcv acknow-
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that
they would never have any interest separate from one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed the next day to dine. all together; and, indeed, we made a
s lcndid feast. 1 caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
s ore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four
pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision. with our punchbowl and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
French claret, and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither
the Spaniards nor the English had tested for many years, and which
.1: ma be an sed, they were ve lad of. The Spaniar' ds added
to org feast iii): whole kids, whieliyt e cooks roasted: and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the semen,
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did with
their salt meat from on board.

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods: wherein that there might be no dis-
pute about dividi , I showed them that there was a sufiieicnc for
them all, desiring [that they might all take an equal uantity o the
goods that were for wearing: that is to say equal vghen made up.
As, first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards" request, afterwards made them up
six; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what,
is I may say, they had long since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat like a frock, which I jud d
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered t at
whenever they decayed they should make more, as they thought fit:
the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &e.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenanccs of all these 001- men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how wefi I had furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that havi such a comespondent as I
was in so remote a part of the worl , it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place; and they all voluntarily
en aged to me not to leave the place without my consent.

l'hen I presented to them I. to people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most necessary people; but, above all, my general artificer,
than whom they could not name anything that was more useful to
them: and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt, the
first thin 7 he did; and, which was still more, he tau ht the women
not only ow to sew and stitch, and use the needle, ut made them
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful the were;
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, an made
them clever convenient tables, stools, hedsteads, cupboards, lockers,
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But, to let them
see how nature made artificers at first, I carried the ca enters to see
Will Atkin's basket'house, as I called it: and they bot owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything
so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind: and one o the
when he saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me,
" I am sure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need no-

' but 've him tools."
hen brought them out all my store of tools, and gave an!)
man a diggin spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no barrows or
ploughs; am to every separate laccn pick-axe, a crow, a broad-axe,
and a saw; always appointing t lat as often as any were broken or
worn out, they should be supplied without rudging, out of the
general stores that 1 left behind. Nails, step es, hinges, hammers,
chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work, they had with-
out tale, as they required: for no man would take more than he
wanted, and he must. be a fool who would waste or spoil them on
any account whatever; and for the use of the smith, 1 left two tons
of unwrought iron for n supplv.

My magazine of )owdcr and arms which I brought. them was such,
even to wofusion, tint they could not but re'oice at them; for now
they could march as 1 used to do, with a mus 'et upon each shoulder,
it' there was occasion; and were ublc to fight a thousand savages, ii
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they
could not. miss, it they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also ; she was a sober, well educated,
religious young: woman, and behaved so iuotl'ensiv th. that every one
Irave her u good word; she had indeed on 11.11:: py life with us, there
being no woman in the ship but, herself, ut she here it with
intienec. Alter a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so
inc a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither business or acquaintance in the East, Indies, or reason for
making so long it voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered amour? the family, as they called it. I agreed
to this readily; and they had a. little plot of ground allotted to them,
where then had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a
basket-work pallisndoed like Atkins's, ad'oining to his plantation.
Their tents were contrived so that they ad each of them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay
their goods m, and to eat and drink in. And new the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the sumo place ; and so the
island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the lull, which was, in a word, the capital cit ; and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as wel under
its on the outside of the bill, that they lived, though perfectly
concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a. little city in a
wood, and so hid, in any part of the world: for I verily believe a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if they
had not known there was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it,
they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but
cutting them down first could discover the place, exec t the 0:13
No narrow anti-woes where they went in and out will be fen ,munchies or mums onum. $153

which was not very easy : one of them was close down at the water's
edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice,
as [ have already formerly described it; and they had also a large
wood thick-planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre,
which grew space, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily to be dis-
covered, to enter on that side.

The other colon was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Enqlis men, I mean those I had left there, with their
wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishmen that was killed; the oung man and
the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of her liefore we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them ; also the smith, who was a very necessary
mnn to them, especially as a u smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I c cd Jack-of--all-trades, who was in him-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a very mcrr fellow; and before I went away
the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before.

Having now done with the island, 1 left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship-
again on the 6th of May, having been about twenty-live days amo v.
them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till"?
came to remove them, I promised to send them further relief from
the Brazils, if I could possibly find an Opportunity; and, particu-
larly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and
cows; as to the two cows and calves which I had brought from
England, we had been obliged, by the length of cor voyage, to kill
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.
ENCOUNTER WlTll SAVAGES AT SEA--FRIDAY'S DEATH--"ROBINSON
FINDS ills FORMER PARTNER IN THE BRAZILS--SAILS FOR THE
EAST INDIES.

T112 next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this : that about three days after we had sailed, being heealmed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
buy or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out: " Land to the east-
ward; " but whether it was the continent or islands we could not
tell b any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smoot , and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered
towards the land with something very black. Our chief mate,
going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a
Rerspeetive, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what

e meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
sir," says he, " don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are comincy towards us apaee."

I was a. little sur rised, then, indeed, and so was my ne hew the
captain; for he had ieard such terrible stories of them in t e island,
and lmVln never been in those seas before, that he could not tell
what to t-iink of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be
devoured. I must confess, considering we were becalmed, and the
current set strong towards the shore, 1 liked it the worse; however,
I bade them not. be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon
as we came so near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on space towards us;
so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails: as for
the savages, I told them the had nothing to fear but fire, and there-
fore the should get their cats out, and fasten them, one close by
the hes , and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
Wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men in the boats
might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire these
savages would endeavour to fix to the outside of the shi .

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little w! ' e they came
up with us; but never was such a. horrid sight seen by Christians:
though my mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their num-
ber, yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and
twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,
some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, the seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sig t which doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we
called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without
our desi 'ng it: for five or six of the large canoes came so near
our lono oat that our men beckoned with their hands to keep them
back, which they understood very well, and went back, but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and
one of our men in the 10 Iboat was very much wounded. However,
1 called to them not to re by any means; but we handed down
some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of
the savages, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern
of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what they were,
though we could not tell their design; and I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a short time more they rowed a little
further out to sea, till they came so near that they could hear us
Teak: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
s ould shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; but.
bein so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out union
the eck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know w at
they meant; which, accordingly he did. Immediately afterwards,
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him,
uoor fellow, the let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpressi 1e grief, killed poor Friday, no other man being-in
their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than t es
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unluckv
marksmen they were!
1 was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and con>>
panion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with smal.
shot. and four with great, and gave them such a broadside as they
had never heard in their lives before, to be sure. They were not
above half a cable length otf when we fired; and our gunners took
their aim so well that three or four of their canoes were overset, as
we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufficiently; but
when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially as they had ki led my poor Friday, whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been
very glad if 1 could have upset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.

i can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded,
at this broadside, but sure such a {right and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a. swimming; the
rest, fri htened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking at little care to save those whose boats were 5 lit or spoiled
with our shot; so I suppose that many of them were ost; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were all gone.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve
himself to death; but I took a way to cure him; for I made them
take him and turn him into the longboat, and make him believe they
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak; nor would that do, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came awa from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, an called to them,
in his tongue, though they understood not one word of what he
said; however, at last the took him in again, and then he began to
be more tractable; nor di I ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconsolate
creature alive for want of my man Friday.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him: or honest Friday! We buried him with ad the
decency and soemnity possible, by putting him into a. coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most ali'ectionate servant that ever man had.

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line, being the northeastermost land on all that part of
America, We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days.
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an
anchor of the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil fate.

Never ship came to this ort that had less business than I had,
and yet it was with great Lfliculty that we were admitted to have
the east correspondence on shore; nor my partner himself, who
was alive, and made a great figure amo _ them, not my two mer-
chant trustees, not the fame of my won erful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner remembering
that I had given five hundred moidores to the priory of the monas-
tery of the Augustincs, and two hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was, to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more; and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any

erson away without licence. They were so strict with us as to
ending any goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on
shore three bales of E lish goods, such as fine broadcloths, stuffs,
and some linen, which had brouOht for a present to my partner.

He was a very generous, 0 en- earted man; though, hke me, he
came from little at first; an tho h he knew not that I had the
least design of giving him anything, e sent me on board a present
of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmcats, worth about thirty moi-
dores, inc uding some tobacco, and three or {our fine medals of gold;
but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, E alish stuffs, lace, and fine hollands; also,
I delivered him about the va ue of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the
sloo , which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for t e use of my colony, in order to send the refreshmentinntended
to my plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I re the master of her such
instructions as that he could not miss t e place; nor did he miss
them, as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and one of our sea-
men, that had been on shore with me there, olfered to go with the:
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to-
allol: him a sufiicient quantity of land for a plantation.

The cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily su pose, was very'
welcome to my old inhabitants, who were now, wit this addition,
between sixty and seventy eople, besides little children, of which
there were a teat many. _ found letters at London from them all,
by way of Lis u, when 1 came back to England, of which I shall
also take'some notice immediately.

I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse
about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do
well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not warned b his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost
forty years' miseries and disappointments; not satisfied with )ros-
perity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by alllietions an (.lISv
tress beyond imitation.

From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course
generally south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was
as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-cargo on board
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party,
at the several ports she was to go to. This was none of my busi
ness, neither did I meddle with it: my nephew, the captain, and the
Eupcrcnrgo, adjusting all those things between them as they thought

t.
THE SAILOR! urn-n T0 SAIL WITH BOBIXSON, WHO IS L3?! 3!
HIS NEPEEW, THE CAPTAIN, IF BENGAL.

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh
water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel.
We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of fifty fun.'
and two large merchant ships, were one for the Indies; an as I
knew we were at war with France, had some apprehensions of
them; but they went their own way, and we heard no more of
t rem.

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious descri tion of places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, titudes, trade-
Winds, &c. ; it is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to
another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
thouOh the poo le are fierce and treacherous, and verv well Armed
witlillances and ows, which they used with inconceivable dexterity,
yet we fared very well with them awhile ; they treated us very civilly ;
and, for some trifles which we fiave them, such as knives, scissors,
&c. they brought us eleven goo fat hullocks of a middling size,
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship's use.

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Commandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supereargo's des' lay at the bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outwerdfiound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.

The first disaster that befel us was in the in." of Persia, where
five of our men ven ' n shore on the Are in side of the guts
were surrounded by the bins, and either all killed or cerri
way into slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue

them. andhad hutjunt- time to get of their boat. I began to upbreigi260 Iii-revokes or nomnsox cumon.

them with the just. retribution of Heaven in this case for cruelty
they had exercised on the natives of Madagascar.

But. my frequent. preaching to them on the subi'cct had worse
conscqucnccs than I expected ; and the honiswain W10 had been the
head of that. alfuir, cumu up boldly to me one time, and told me he
found that I brought that: all'air continually upon the stage; that I
made unjust. rcllt'clions upon it, and had used the men very ill on
that. account. and himsi-ll' in particular; that as 1 was but a passenger,
and had no connnundin the ship. or cnncorn in the voyage, they were
not. obliged to hour it; that they did not. know but. i might. have some
ill design in my head, and perhaps to call them to an account for it
when they came to England: and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself any
further with him, or any of his :itl'uirs, he would leave the ship; for
he did not, think it. was safe to sail with me among them.

I hcurd him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him,
that. as to haying no command in the ship, that. was true; nor did I
exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concorncd us all; and what. concern I had in
the voyage was none of his business; that. 1 dose considerable owner
in the ship ; in that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even
further than I had done, and would not. be accountable to him or any
one else; and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at. that time, and I thought the affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being willing to see
the place, I went- on shore with the supercargo, in the ship's boat,
to divert myself; and towards evening was reparing to goon board,
when one of the men came to me, and to d me he would not have
me trouble myself so come down to the boat, for they had orders not.
10 carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what no rise
I was in at so insolcnt a message; and I asked the man who ade
him deliver that. message to me? He told me, the cockswain. Isaid
no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he had delivered
his message. and that I had given him no answer to it.

I immediately went and found out the snpercargo, and told him
the story; ridding, which I present] foresaw, that. there would be in
mutiny in the ship; and entreatcd im to immediately on board
the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint tic captain of it. But]
might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him
on shore the matter was cti'ected on board. The boatswain, th(
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior oificcrs, as soon as I was
gone all in the bout, came up, and desired to 3 oh with the
captain; and there the hoatswain making a long arungue, and
repeating all he had said to me, told the ca tain, in a few words,
that as 1 was now going peacebly on shore, t ey were loth to use
any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on shore, the would
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone; they t erefore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselua to serve
in the ship under his command, they would erform it well and
faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or t e captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which
all the seamen, being got together there, cried out, One and all!
one and all .'

My nephew, the captain, was a man of s hit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was an rise uyou may be sure.
at the thing. yet he told them calmly that e we (1 consxder of the
matter; out that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them to show them lhe
nureasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain;
they swore and shook hands round before his face, that they would
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to
come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them; told them that I was at very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to servin him as the famous pirate Kidd had
done, who made a mutiny in t e ship, set the captain on shore on an
uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship ;_ that let them go
into what sni they would, if ever they came to England ain it
would cost t em very dear; that the ship was. mine, and t at he
could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship
and the voyage too than disobli e me so much; so they might do as
they pleased; however, he we (1 no on shore and talk with me, and
invzted the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter with me. But they all rejected the proposal,
and said they would have nothing to do with me any more; and if I
came on board they would go on shore. " Well," sai the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him." So
away he came to me with this account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the coekswaiu.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess : for I was not
without apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set
' sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been stri ped-

naked in a remote country, having nothing to help myself: in s ort,
1 had been in a worse case than when I was alone in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction;
and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one and all, leave
the ship if I was suflered to come on board, I told him he should
' not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore: I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things 0W.
shore, and leave me n sufficient sum of money, and I would find my
way to England as well as 1 could. '

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no
way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the
ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to'thcir
importuuity, and had sent for his oods from on board the ship: so
that the matter was over in a few ours, the men returned to their
duty, and l began to consider what course 1 should stccr.
MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH W'HOM. IKE MAKES
SOME TRADING VOYAGES--THEY ABE MISTAKEN FOB. PIRATES--
VANQUISH THEIR PURSUEnS--VOYAGE T0 CHINA--RENCONTRE
WITH THE COCIIIN CHINESE--ISLAND 0F TOMOBA--GUL'B' OI
NANQUIN~APPREHENSIONS OF FALLING INTO TIE HANDS OI
TILE DUTCH.

I WAS now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I
may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther of
from England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persia, and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and
Scanderoon; from thence by sea again to Ital , and so overland into
France; and this put togct er might at least he afull diameter of the
globe, or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither Without rag concern with the English East India Com-
pany, so it would be di cult to go from hence without their license,
unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, or the Company's
factors, and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortificution to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment I think a man in my ciromnstances scarce ever met with,
except from pirates ru ' awe with the ship, and setting those
that would not agree with t eir vi y on shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways ;however, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk to the
purser, whom he engaged to go with me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me also a. good lodging; in the house of an Ex lish-
womnn, where several merchants lodged, some French, two It "ans,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was handsomely enough
entertained : and that I nnght not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and honr to man e myself. lhad some English goods with
me of value, and a eonsi emble sum of money ; my nephew furnish-
ing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that. I might not he straitencd wherever
might ha ten.

I uichiv disposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I originally
intent ed, I bought here some very end diamonds, which, of all
other things, were the most proper 'f'or me, in my present circum-
stances; bccausc I could always carry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who
lodged with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance
with, came to me one morning. " Countrymau," says he, " I have a
project to communicate to you. which, as it. suits with my thourrhts,
may, for ought I know, suit with yours also, when you shall tare
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and
I by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own
country; but it is in a eouutry where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great. deal of money is to be got. If you will ut
one thousand pounds, to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a s tip
here, the first; we can get [0 our minds ; you shall he captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage to China."

I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got. a vessel, it was not easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a beatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three foremastmen. With these we found we
could do we'd enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were, to
make up.

We made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium
and some crunch; the first a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
there. In a word, we went u to Susham, made a very eat voyage
were eight months out, an returned to Bengal; an I was very
well satisfied with my adventure
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money
by my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty ears vounger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, an sought no farther for making any
fortune: but what was all this to a man upwards of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?

But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be
nearer home, and yet the mest unsettled resolution imaginable which
Way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, roposed another voyage
to me amo the S ice Islands, and to bring home a loading of
cloves from t e Mani las, or thereabouts; places, indeed, where the
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the S aniards; thou h
we went not so far, but to some other, where t ey have not tie
whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in brin ing me to come into it: however, at last, nothing else
oll'ering, an findin that really stirring about and trading, the profit
beino so great, ani as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it,
and had more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
me especially, was the unhappiest part of In life, I resolved on this
voyage too, which we made ver successful y, touchin at Borneo,
and several islands whose namesl do not remember, an came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf; and making near five of one, we really got a great
deal of money.

But, to be short with m speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch ship rom Batavia; she was a coaster, not an
European trader, of about two hundred tons burthen, the men, as
they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and havmg, it
seems, got money eunuch, or being Willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave pub 'e notice that he would sell his ship. This
came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a
great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him of it. _H.e
considered awhile, for he was no rash man; but musi some time.
he replied, " She is a little too big; but, however, we ' have her."
Accordin ly, we bought the ship, and reeing with the master, We
paid for er, and took possession. men we had done so, we
resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with mono
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they harms
received not their wages, but their share of the money, as we after-
wards learned, not one of them was to be found ; we inquired much
about them, and at. length were told that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and fron
thence to travel to Surat, and go by sea to the 1f of Persia.

Nothing had so mueh troubled me a 006 w ile as that 1 should
miss the 0p ortunity of going with t em; for such a ramble, I
thought, an in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and
I should have both seen the world and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know
what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was,
that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that after the captain was killed,
these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
ship, which they did and brought her to Bengal, leaving the mate
an five more men on shore; of whom hereafter.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired anything of
the seamen, who would certainly have {altered in their account,
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted themselves; or
one how or other We should have had reason to have suspected
them: but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one
Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name, for I suppose it was all
a. forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not con-
tradict him; and withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went
through with our bargain.

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch ; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the south-east
for cloves, &e.; that is to saw, among the Plihppine and Molucca
isles; and, in short, not to fill up this art of my story with trifles,
when what is to come is so remarkabl , I spent, from first to last,
six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and
forward with very great success, and was now the last year with my
new partner, going in the ship above-mentioned, on a voyage to
China, but demgning first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, being by contrary winds oblirred to beat u and
down a great while in the straits of M alacce, and among the is nds,
we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas than We found
our ship had 5 rung a leak, and we were not able, by all our
industry, to fin out where it was. This forced us to make some
porn: and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
dixcted the ca tain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
maue the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, ca tain, not being
wining to take the charge of the ship upon mysel . This river lies
on me north side of the great bay or gull which goes up to Siam.
While We were here, and going often on shore for refreshment. the"?
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a
firmer's-mate on board an English East India ship which rode in
t e same river, at or near the city of Cambodia; what brou ht him
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and spca ' lish,
" Sir," says he, " you are a stranger to me, and I to you, at I ave
something to teildyou that very nearly concerns you."

I looked ste sstly at him a good while, and thought at first 1
had known him, but I did not: "If it very nearly concerns me,"
said I, " and not lyourself, what moves you to tell it to me P"--"]
am moved," says e, " y the imminent dan 1you are in, and, for
aught I see, vou have no knowledge of it."--" know no danger I
am in," says I, " but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out;
but I intend to lay her ound to-morrow, to see if I can find it."
" But, sir," says he, "1:13; or not leaky, find it or not find it, you
will be wiser t an to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you
hear what I have to as to you: do you know, sir," said he, "the
town of Cambodia lies a out fifteen leagues up this river? and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and
three Dutch."--" Well," said I, " and what is that to me P"--
" Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such adventures
as you are, to come into a port and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I sup-
pose you do not think you are a match for them ?" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not
conceive what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
" Sir, I wish you would explain yourself; I cannot imagine what
reason 1 have to be afraid 0 any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
shi s ; 1 am no interloper; what can they have to say to me? He
loo ed like a man half angry and half leased, and pausinv awhile,
but smiling, "Well, sir," as he, "i? you think onrseii secure,
you must take our chance; am sorry our fate s ould blind you
against good a vice: but assure yourse f, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked b five long-
boats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you wi be h
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I tho 1:,
air," added he, "I should have met with a better receptionutgian
this, for doing you a piece of service of such importance. --" I can
never be ungrateful," said I, " for any service, or to any man that
ofi'ers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design u on me for: however, since you say
there is no time to he lost, an that there is some villanous design
on hand Tinst me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sea
immediate y, if in men can sto the leak, or if we can swim with-
out stopping it: at, sir," said , "shall I go away ignorant of the
cause of all this? Can you ire me no further light into it P"--
" I can tell you but part of t e sto , sir," says he; "but I have a
Dutch seaman here with me, and I elieve I. could persuade him to
'Jcll you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short oi
the story is this, the first part of which, I sup use, you know well
enough, viz., that you was with this ship at umatra; that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or some of those that were on board with you. ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum
of the story, and you will all beseized as pirates, I can assure you,
and e. outed with vet-v little ceremony; for you know merchant
ships show but little law to irates, if they get them into their
power."----"Now von speak p ain English," said I, " and 1 thank
you; and though i know nothing that we have done like what you
talk of, for 1 am sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship ; yet
seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly, I will be upon my guard." <<" Nay, sir," says he, "do not.
talk about being upon your guard; the best defence is, to be out of
danger; if you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without. fail, at. high water; and as you have
u. whole tide before you, you nill be gone too far out before they can
come down; for they will come away at high water, and us they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by
the dill'erence of the tide, not reckoninrr the length of the way;
hcsides, as theyr are only boats, and not slii is, they will not venture
to follow you tar out to sea, especially if it Ll)lo\vs."------" Well, said I,
"you have been very kind in this; what; shall I do to make
amends ?"--" Sir," says he, " you may not he willing to make any
amends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it: I
will make an otl'cr to you; 1 have nineteen months' pay due to me
on board the ship ""2 which 1 came out of England m; and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven month's ay due to him; if
you will make good our pay to us, we will go ong with you: if
you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do
convince you that we. have saved your lives, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you.

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on heard, and
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called
to me, with a great. deal of joy, "0 he! 0 ho! we have stopped
the leak! we have stopped the leak l"-----" Say you so?" said I,
"thank God; but weigh anchor then immediately."--"Weigh!"
says he: " what do you mean by that? What Is the matter?"
"Ask no quest-ions," said l, "but all hands to work, and weiOh
without losing a minute." He was surprised, but, however, 19
called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got
up; and though the. tide was not quite down, yet a little land
breeze hlowin~ , we stood out to sea. Then I called him into the
cabin, and tel him the story; and we called in the men, and they
l-Old us the rest of it : but as it took up a areal 'lvul (if time... ltelfltfi
we had done a scaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. " Cbased l" says
I; "by whot?"---"B five sloops, or boats," says the fellow, "full
of men."----" Very we ," said I; " then it is apparent there is some-
thing in it." In the next place I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take
us for pirates, and wked them if they would stand by as, and by
one another: the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them ; for resist them I
was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily
that the way was to keep them oi? with our great shot as long as we
could, nnd then lire at them with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to break open our bulk-heads, or get in u on us.

The gunner had, in the meantime, OI'H'IS to bring two guns to
bear fore and aft, out of the steer we, to clear the deck, and load
them with musket bullets and em l pieces of old iron, and what
came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats
at a distance, being live large long-boats, following us with all the
sail they could make.

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could see were
Envlish) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
and, gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up with us; upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate
that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a
signal for parlcy; but they came crowdin after us, till they came
within shot, when we took in our white a , they having made no
answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and hred at them with shot.
Notwithstandin this, they came on till they were near enou h to
call to them with a s eakmg trumpet which we had on boar ; so
we called to them, and bade them keep 03', at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern, so as to board us on our quarter; upon which,
seeing the were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
strength t at followed them, I ordered to bring the shi to, so
that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we ired five
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry
away the stern of the hindcrmost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of tnkin down their sail, and running allto the head of the
boat to keep her rom sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it;
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made read [to
fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one or the t ree
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
w the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see
her take out the men: we called again to the foremost host, we
offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her business was
with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run
out his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing,
the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but
the gunner, getting quickl ready again, fired among them a. second
time, one shot of wlnch, tlio h it missed the boat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we con d easily see had done a great deal of
mischief among them; but we took no notice of that, were the ship
again, and brought our quarter to hear u on them, and firing three
guns more, we found the boat was most split to pietcs ; in
particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away;
so they handed her sail innnediately, and were in rent disorder.
But to complete their misfortune, our gunner let ytwo guns at
them again : where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
hlml was sinking. and some of the men already in the water: upon
this I immediately manned out our pinnnce, which we had kept close
by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowning, and immediately come on board the
ship with them, became we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood further out to sea;
and we found that when the other three boats came up to the first,
they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than 1 up )rehended,
l resolved that we should change our course, and not iet any one
know whither we were goin": so we stood out to sea, eastward,
quite out of the course of all European ships, whether they were
bound to China or any where else within the commerce of the
Euro )enn nations.

When we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this could be; and the Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that
sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too
he told us, though I do not remember it now, was treacliorously
murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, get into the
woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at leneth he,
in particular, in a. miraculous manner, made his escape, an swam
off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not come to that part of the shore where the heat was. but maderoves-runes or aoamson meson. 271

nifl. in the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great
while, at last the sili '12: boat took him up.

He then told us t it he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
men belon ing to the ship arrived, havin deserted the rest in their
travels, an ave an account that the is ow who had run away with
the ship sol her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were one a
cruising in her; and that the had already taken an Englis ship
and two Dutch ships very rich y laden.

This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we knew
it to be false; et as my partner said very justly, if we had fallen
into their hen , and they had such a pre ossession against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have efended ourselves, or
to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and especially con-
sidering that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictated,
and an ungoverned passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengali, from whence we
name, without putting in at any port whatever; because there we
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were
when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity
of bringing it before the proper Judges, we should he sure to have
some justice, and not to be hange first and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returnin to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of ilelacca, and that if the alarm was given, we
should be sure to he waylaii 9: ever side, as well b the Dutch of
Batzwia as the English elsewhem. at if we should e taken, as it
were, running away, we should ever. condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's o inion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly e taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and all
.he ship's company, and we immediately resolved to o away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; an pursuin the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose e the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as
we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered aw y N.N.E., kee ing above
fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. his, how-
ever, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the winds, when we
came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily
against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E, and
E.N.E., so that we were a lo a while upon our voyage, and we were
but ill provided with victuals or so long a run; and, which was still
worse, there was some d er that those En lish and Dutch shi s,
whose boats pursued us, w ereoi' some were and that way, 11115 t
be got in before us, and if not, some other ship bound to. China
might have information of us from them, and pursue us with the
same Vigour.

I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in-
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, tohave been in the most
dangerous condition that ever I was in through my past life; for
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a
thief before; nor had I ever done anything that merited the name
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiefly been
my own enemy, or, as 1 miSSht rightly say, I had been nebody's
enemy but my own; but now was embarrassed in the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken,
it had been under a su pescd guilt of the worst kind. This made-
mc very anxious to ma 'e an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what ort or place we could go to. My partner seeing.
me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at first, beSSzm
to encourage me, and describing to me the several ports of t :at-
coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the
Bay of Tonqnin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a great many Euro--
pean families resided; and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going lorward to China.

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though alter a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitcned for provi-
sions, we came \\'1tlll.n sight of the coast very early in the morning;
and upon reflection on the past circumstances we. were in, and the
danger if we had not csca ed, we resolved to put into a small river,
which, however, had deptli enough of water for us, and to see if we
could, either overland or by the ship's yinuace, come to know what
ships were in any port thereabouts. l'his happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any Euro-
pean ships in the Bay of 'l onquin, yet the next. morning there came
into the be two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colours
3 read out, ut which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
3 out two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon went by two English ships steerinv the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset wit 1 enemies both one
way and the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous;
the people thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though, it
is true, we had not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few
provisions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet- it- was
with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them, several ways. we were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east, to the point of land which 0 ens the
great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along t e shore
that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The 1e
we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the
coast, having no corres ondence with any other nation, and dealing
only in fish and oil, an such groes commodities; and it may be par-
ticularly seen that they are, as I said, the mest barbarous of any of
the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one, viz.
that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, they presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it
was not orig before we found a spice of their kindness this way,
on the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said,
it was stop ed unexpectedly in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by 1 re Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam -, yet as
we did not find the ship so perfectly sound and ti ht as we desired,
we resolved, while we were at this place, to lay er on shore, and
take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom;
and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having hghtcned the ship, and brought all our guns and other move-
ablcs to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come
at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,'
acme wondering down to the shore to look at us ; and seeing the ship
he down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing' our men, who were at work on her bottom
with stages, and with their boats on the ofi-side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so fast on the
ground On this supposition, they came all about us in two or
three hours" time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the ship; and if they had found us
there, to have carrie us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew nothing of who was governor.

When they came 11 ) to the ship and began to row round her, they
discovered us all her at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their design was;
but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there should
he occasion; and it was no more than need: for in less than a quar-
ter of an hour's comultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship
was really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
save her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats; and when we
handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by that motion,
that We were endeavouring to save some of our goods; upon Shir
they took it for granted we all belon ed to them, and away they
came directly upon our men, as if it he been in a line of battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we
lay but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what
they should do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon
the stages, to slip them down, and get u the side into the shi ; and
bade those in the heat to row round, an come on board; an those
few of us who were on board worked with all the strength and hands
we had, to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the. men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were Ordered,
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them ; and two of their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English seamen, a stout,
strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never ofl'ered to
fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a tool, as I thought; but he
understood his business better than I could teach him, for he grappled
the i)&tf.,j'2111,:ttld dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours, where taking him by the ears, he beat his head so against the
boat's gunnel, that the fellow died in his hands; and, in the mean
time, u Dutchman, who stood next, taking up the musket, with

' the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down [ire of
them who attempted to enter the boat>>. But this was doing little
towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant
of their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where
we had but live men in all to defend it : but the following accident,
which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as
well to pay the seams where he had eaulked her, to stop the leaks,
had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with resin, tallow, and oil, and such stull
as the Shipwrights use for that work, and the man that attended
the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his hand, with which he
supplied the men w 0 were at work with the hot stulf ; two of
the enemy's men entered the boat 'ust where this fellow stood,
being in the foresheets; he immediately saluted them With a handful
of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being
half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and enraged With the fire,
1 ed both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out .
" ell done, Jack; give them some more of it; " and steppi o for-
ward himself, takes one of the mo 5, and dipping it in the pite --pot
he and his man threw it among t em so plentitully, that, in short,
of all the men in the three boats there was not one who escaped
being scalded and burned with it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner,
and made such a howling and crying, that I never heardaworse
noise; for it is worth observing, for that though pain naturally maka
all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way u. exclama'
tion, and makes horses as different from one another as their speech.
I cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never heard
anything more like the muse of the wolves, which, as I have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, exec t of
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which was
much concerned at, for I was sick of killing such poor savage wretches,
even though it was in my own defence, knowing they came on
errands which they thought just, and knew no etter; and that
though it may he a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature?) yet I thought it was a sad life, when
we must be always obliged to e killing our fellow-creatures to pre-
serve ourselves; and, indeed I think so still, and I would even now
suffer a great deal, rather than I would take away the life even of
the worst person injurin me; and I believe all considering people
who know the value of ife would be of my opinion, if they entered
seriously into the consideration of it.

But to return to my story :--All the while this was doing, in
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had wit
great dexterity bro ht the ship almost to ri hts, and having got
the guns into their p aces again, the gunner ed to me to get our
boat out of the way, for he would et fly among them. I called
back ' (rain to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for the carpenter
would 0 the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of; but the
enemy was so terrified with what they had met with in their first
attack, that they would not come on again: and some of them who
were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, u right, began,
as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over t e enterprise,
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear of this
merry fight, and having got some rice, and some roots and bread,
with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to
stay here no lon er, but 0 forward, whatever came 01 it; for we
made no doubt shut we a ould be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of
for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next moraine were ready to sail; in the mean time, la '
at anchor at some distance from the shore, we were nor. so mue
concerned, being new in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing
posture, if an enemy had presented. The next day, ha ' finishe
our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly caled of
all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the Bay of
Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to beknown276 .mvnnruruas or 11031330)! causes.

concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but we rlurst not
Itund in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we
sup osed, but a. little before: so we kept on NB. towards the island
of ormosa, as much afraid of beintr seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in the Medi-
terranean is of an Algerinc man-ot-war.

When We were thus got to sea, we kept on N.E. as if we would go
to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did that we
might not fall into the way of the European ships; and then
we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 30 min, by
which means we made the island Formosa directly, where We came
to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who Were very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with
us in all their agreements and bargains, which is what we did not
find among other people, and mar be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planted here by a Dutch missionary of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what 1 have often observed, viz.
that the Christian religion always cirilizes the poo lo and reforms
their manners, where it is received, whether it wor 's saving cti'ects
upon them or no.

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come; being resolved, it
possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country;
when-cl, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
K'Ullh'll .

Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to
put into the first trading port we should come at ; and standing in
for the shore, a boat came olt' two leagues to us, with an old Portu-
guese pilot on board, who knowing us to be an European ship,
came to offer his service, which, indeed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board; upon which, without asking us whither we
would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back.

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about
carrying us to the gulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part
of the coast of China. The old man said he knew the gulf of
Nanqnin very well, but smiling, asked us what we would do there?
I told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c., and so would return by
the same course we came. He told us our best port had been to
have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed ot' a market
[or our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have
pYurchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at

an urn.

th being able to put the old mm out of his talk, of which he-aovm'runns or nonixsox entrant. $77

Was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well as merchants, and that we had a mind 10 see the great citv of
Pckin, and the famous Court of the monarch of China. "Why
then." says the old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where by the
river that runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a miVigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers,
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and
goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and
seventy leagues.

" W ell," said I, " Scnhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of
Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Peking afterwards?" He said
he could do so very well, and that there was a, reat Dutch ship gone
up that way just before. This 0are me a little shock, fora Dutch
ship was now our terror; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them ;

. all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named a Dutch shi ); and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of the Dutch ; I su pose they are not now
at war with your nation?"--"No," said I, " liut's true; but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the
laws of their own country.--" Why," says he, " you are no pirates;
what need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merch-
ants, sure."

I f I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels a pointed by
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest 'sorder and
confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so;
but that the old man easily perceived it.

" Sir," says he, " I find you are in some disorder in mr thoughts
at my talk ; pray be pleased to go which way you t ' k fit, and,
depend upon it, I'll do you all the service I can."--" Why, seuhor,"
stud I, "it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go in particular; and I am something more so for
what you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
seas; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see
we are but a small force, and are but very weakly manned.' --" O,
sir," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except one, which
was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but
you may be assured she is gone, to the southward; nor was she a
ship of any great force, or fit for the work. She was not built for
a privateer, but was run away with by: reprobate crew that was on
board, after the captain and some of ' men had been murdered by278 mums or summer cnoson.

the Malayans, at or near the island of Sumatra." What!" said
I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did they murder the
captain?" " No," said he, "I don't understand that they murdered
him; but as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is enerally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the alayans,
who did murder him; and perhaps they procured them to do i 3'--
"Why then," said I, " they deserve death as much as if they had
done it themselves."--" Na ," says the old man, "they do deserve
it; and they will certainly ave it, if they lie-ht u on any English
or Dutch shi : for they have all agreed together, t at if they meet
that rogue tiey'll give him no quarter."--" But," said I to him,
" you say the pirate is one out of these seas; how can they meet
With him then?"---" W y, that's true," says he, "they do say so ;
but he was. as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia;
and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the
ship, and who were left on shore when they ran away with her; and
some Enolish and Dutch traders being in the river, they were within
alittle 0? taking him: nay," said he, "if the foremost boats had
had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;
but he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about,
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came up,
and then standing ofi' to sea, the others Were not able to follow, and
so he at away; but they have all so exact a description of the
ship, trat they will be sure to know her; and wherever they find
her they have vowed to ivc no quarter either to the captain or sea-
men, but to hang them a up at the yard-arm."--" What i" said I,
"will they execute them right or wrong; hang them first, and
judoe them afterwards l' "------" O sir," says the old pilot, " there is no
need to make a formal business of it With such rogues as those; let
them tie them back to hack, and set them a diving, 'tis no more
than they deserve."

I knew I had my old man fast- on board, and that he could do no
harm, so that I turned short upon him: " Well now, senhor," said
I, "this is the very reason why I would have you carry us up to
Nanquin, and not ut hack to Macao, or to any other part of the
country where the nglish or Dutch ships come; for be it known to
you, senhor, those captains of the English and Dutch ships are a
parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither know what

elongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
God and nature direct, but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish
robbers; would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry : and perhaps I may live
to bring some of them to account for it, when t ey may be taught
how justice is to be executed; and that no man ought to be treated

as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and
that he is the man "
With this I. told him that this was the ve ship they attacked.
and gave him a full account of the skirmisfi we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told him all
the stor of our buying the slip, and how the Dutchmen served us.
I told rim the reasons I h to believe the story of killin tne
muster by the Mala ans was true, as also the running away wit the
shi ; but it was al a fiction of their own to suggest that the men
h turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to
resist them ; adding, that they would have the blood of those men.
whom we killed there in just defence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were
very much in the right to go awe to the north ; and that if he might

-advisc us, it should be to sell t e ship in China, which we might
very well do, and buy or build another in the country ; " and," saidhe,
" though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one able
enough to carry you and all your goods back'again to Benigal, or
any where else." I told him I would take his advice when came
to any port where I could find a ship for my turn, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied, I s iould meet with customers
enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would
serve me very well to go back "am; and that he would procure me
people both to buy one and sc the other. "Well but, senhor,"
said I, " as you say they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental to bring some honest innocent
men into a. terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the
men, by proving this was the ship, and so innocent men ma pro-

babl he overpowered and mnrdered."----" Why," s3, 3 the 01 man,

"I'llfind out away to prevent that also; for as know all those

commanders you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on board at first mi ht run away with the ship,
yet it was not true that they had tume pirates; and that, in ar-
ticular, these were not the men that first went off with the ship, ut

innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded they ml]

so far beheve me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come."

While these things were pas-ing between us, b way of discoune,
we went forward directly for Nan uin, and in 9. out thirteen dnys'
sail came to an anchor at the sout i-west pomt of the great gull of
Nnnquin; where, by the way, I came by accident to understand
that two Dutch ships were gone that length before me, and that}
should certainly fell into their hands. I consulted my partner again
in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would
very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere: however, I
was not in such pcrplexity neither, but I asked the old ilot if there
was no creek or harbour which l might ut into an pursue my
business with the Chinese private-l , and )e in no danger of the
enrtny. lle told me, if 1 would sai to the southward about forty
two leagues, there was a little )Ot'l. called (Quinchang, where the
fathers of the m' siou usually [on cd from Macao, on their pron-rcss
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no Lure-
pean ships ever put. in; and if 1 thought to mt in there, I might
consider what further course to take when l was on shore. He
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except. that at
some. certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the
merchants front Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
clnuidist's.

We all agreed to go back to this place. ; the name of the port, as
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for 1 do not particularly
rt'uu-mher it, having lost this, together with the names of many
other )luees set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water Jyun accident; but thisI reniemhet',tliat theChincsa or Japanese
merchants we corresponded with called it by a dill'erent name from
that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,
Quiuehznig.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we
weighed the next. day, having only gone twice on shore where we
were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the
country were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things
to sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls, but nothing without. money.

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till live
days, but it was very much to our satisfaction; and I was joyful,
and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
rtfects any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on board that: unhappy vessel more; and,
indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life
that ever i had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com-
pletely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the
Scripture say, "The fear of man brings a snurcf' it is a life of
death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
of no relief.

The hrst thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
so uainied with three missionary Romish priests who were in town,
an who had been there some time converting the people to
Christianity; we thought they made but oor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they ha done : however, that
was none of our business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese, and the third,
3 (latrines-o; Father Sin-on was courteous, easy in his manner,anemones or license)! causal. 281

and very wrreenble company; the other two were more reserved,
SW'lIiCll rigid and austere, and a plied seriouslyto the work they
came about, viz., to talk with, an insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants, wherever they had an opportunity. We often ate and
drank with those men; and though, 1 must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true
conversion required to br' heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to 'ttle more than letting them know the
name of Christ, and say some rayers to the Virgin Mary and her
son, in a tongue which they un erstand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like; yet it must he confessed that the religionists, whom
we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will be
savrxl, and that they are the instruments of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most
violent tortures, for the sake of this work.

tut to return to my story. This French riest Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chic of the mission to go
up to l'ekin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but
he was invrting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world: a city, said he, that your
London and our Paris put together, cannot he equal to. This was
the city of l'ekin, which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely
full of people; but as I looked upon those things with different
eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in afew
words, when I come in course of my travels to speak more par-
ticularly of them.

We had something eke before us at first, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to he
very doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very
little business ; and once I was about. to venture to sail for the river
of Kilaun,zuid the city of Nanquin: but Providence seemed now
more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
ull'airs; and 1 was encouraged, from this very time, to think I should
one way or other get out of this entangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, thOugh I had not the least
view of the manner. Providence, I say, began here to clear up our
way a little: and the first thing that offered was, that. our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what
goods we had; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good rice for it, paying us in gold by weight, same
In small pieces of t eir own com, and some or small we. shot
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing wit ban
for our opium, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for

'1'
the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him :' he
shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him;
but in a few days aft er he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of code of us,
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the
ship; and that, therefore, he had not money enough to pay for the
ship: but if I would let the some men who were in the Sll navi-
gate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; and won d send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another leading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went to Japan, and
that at their return he \vouldhuy the ship. I began to listen to his
pro nsal, and so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that 1
con d not but begin to entertain a notion of going myself with him,
and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South Seas;
accordin 1157 I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us
to the Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, "No,
he could not do that, for then he could not have the retnm of his
carve ; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's return."
"'0 1, still I was for taking him at that roposal, and going myself;
but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a. false,
cruel, and treacherous cople; likewise those of the Spaniards at
the Philip )ines, more fa so, cruel, and treacherous than they.

But to ring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion: the
first thing we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship,
and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan:
and while I was doing this, the young man whom my nephew had
left with me as my companion for my travels came to me, and told
me that he thought that voyage promised very fair, and that there
was a great prospect of advent e, and he would be very "lad if I
undertook it; but that if I woul not, and would give him Ieave, he
would go as a merchant, or how I leased to order him; that if he
ever came to England, and I was t ere and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, which should he as much mine
as I pleased. I was really loth to part with him ; but considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, and that
he was a. youn follow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I
inclined to let rim go; but I told him I would consult my partner,
and give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it, and my partner made a most generous offer- " You know
it has been an un ucky ship," said he, "and we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again: if your steward (so he called my man) wiL
venture the vo age, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and
let him make t e best of it; and if we live to meet in England, and
he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the
profits of the ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with in young man.
made him such an offer, I could do no less than offer 'm the same:
and all the ship's company being willing to go with him, we made
over half the ship to him in propeity, and took a writing from him,
obliging him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan.
The Japan merchant proved a ver punctual, honest man to him;
protected him at Japan, and got iin a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually; sent him to the Phili pines, loaded
with Japan and C but wares, and a su erear of t eir own, who,
ti-allicking with the Spaniards, brought back 'uropean oods again,
and a rent quantity of cloves and other spices; and t ere he was
not on y aid his frei ht very well, and at a very good price, but not
being wil 'ng to sell tie ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on lus own account; and With some money, and some 5 ices of his
own which he brought with him, he went back to the .Ianillas to
the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having
got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he t his ship made a free
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired iim to go to Acapulco in
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him alicenee to land
there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Europe with all his men. He made t e voyage to Acapulcom
happily; and there he sold his ship; and havmg there also obta'
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means, some-
how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure; and about
ei lli. years after came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
titsf'e notice in its place: in the mean time, I return to our particular
a BUS.

Being now to part with the ship and the ship's company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should glve
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design against
us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a very
considerable service, and deserved well at our hands; though, by
the way, they were a couple of to es too: for as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and t at we had really mi} away With
the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design that was
formed' trainst us, but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them
confesse afterwards that nothing else but the ho es of gomga
roguing brought him to do it: however, the service t ey did us was
not the less; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the money to be paid them which they said
was due to them on board their respective ships; over and above
that, I ve each of them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented t em very well; then [made the Englishman gunner in the
ship, the gunner being now made second mate and purser; the
Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well pleased,

pug proved very serviceable, being bo h able semen. and very stout
e oweMTION ILL}.

)O'JBNEY 1'0 PEKIN -- ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PBOCBBDXSS
TO MOSCOW--RENCONTILES WITH. THE TARTARS.

I WAS now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon im-
oortuncd me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or
not; so I referred him to my armor, and left it wholly to his
choice, who at length resolved it in the allirmative; and we pre-
pared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as
to finding: the way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one
of their Mandolins, a kind of Viceroy or principal magistrate in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great. attendance, and with much homage from the
people, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, being
obliged to furnish provisions for hem and all their attendants in
their journeys. That which I particularly observed, as to our tra
veiling with his baggage, was this, that though we received sufficient
rovisrons both for ourselves and our horses from the country, as
elonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every-
thing we had, after the market rice ot' the coxmtry, and the Man-
darin's steward collected it duly rom us; so that our travelling in
the retinue 01' the Mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a great advantage
to him, considering there were about thirty other people travelled m
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his rctiuue;
the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet
he took our money for them.
We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a country
afinitely populous, but 1 think badly cultivated; the husbandry, theshimmers or nonmsos causes, 28:)

economy, and the way of living miserable, though the" beast sc
much of the industry of the people: I say miserable, ii compared
with our own, but not so to these oor wretches, who know no
other. The pride of the people is in' 'tely eat, and exceeded by .
nothing but their poverty, which adds to t at which I call their
misery; and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have nothi , so they desire
nothing: whereas these are mud and insolent, an in the main are
mere beggars and drudges; t eir ostentation is inexpressible; and, if
they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, and,
which is to the last degree ridiculous, have the greatest contempt
of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary than here; and yet
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers: but nothing was .more awkward to me than to see
such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of the
grossest simplicity and ignorance, and my friend Father Simon and

used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
of? the city of Nunquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with
the muster of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His

shit was very roper for a scaramouch, or merry-Andrew, being a
dirty calico, with) hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes on
almost every side; it covered a tefi'ety vest, as greasyas a butcher's,
and which testified that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had
two slaves who followed him on foot to drive the nor creature
along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboure the beast as
fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, goin from the city
to his country sect, about half a league before us. e travelled on
gently, but this * me of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a. v1 lage about an hour to refresh us, when we came
by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but
he was very easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased. He set
under a tree, somethin like the palmetto, which effectually shaded
him over the head, an on the south side; but under the tree was
also placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough
He sat lollin back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, co ulent
man, and had his meat brought him by two women slaves; e had
no more, one of whom fed the squire with a. 's con, and the other
and the dish with one hand, and scraped ofl' w he let fell upon
his worshi '5 board and tafi'cty vest with the other; while the great
tat bmte t ough' it below him to cm iloy his own hands in any of
those familiar offices, which kings an monarchs would rather do
than be troubled with the clumsy fingers of their servants.

At length we arrived at Pekin: .l. had nobody with me but the
youth whom my nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a
servant, and who prove-d very trusty and diligent; and my partner
had nobodyr with him, but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for
the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we here
his charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for
he understoml the langua e of the count ry, and spoke good French,
and a little English; am, indeed, this old man was a most- useful
implement to us everywhere; tor we had not been above a week at,
l'ekin, when he came laughing: "Ah, Senhor lnglesc," said he, " 1
have something to tell you will make your heart. glad I " " My heart
glad ! " says I g " what can that he? I don't know anything in this
country am either give me joy or grief, to any great degree."
" L's, yes," said the old man, in broken English, " make you glad,
mo sorry." "Why," said I, "will it. make you sorry?" "Be-
cause," said he, " you have brought me here twenty-live days' jour-
ney, and will leave me to go back alone, and which \-'a_\' shall 1 get to
my oort afterwards without a ship, without. a horse, without peczuze: "
so no called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. ln short, he told us there was a
great. caravan of Muscovitc and Polish merchants in the city, pre-
paring to set out on their journey by land to Museovy, within four
or five weeks, and he was sure we would take the opportunity to go
with them, and leave him behind, to go back alone.

I confess I was greatlyr surprised with this good news, and had
scarce power to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to
him: "How do you know this?" said I. "Are you sure it, is
true?" " Yes," says he; " I met- this morning in the street an old
acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is among them: he came
last from Astracan, and was designing to go to 'l'onquin, where I
formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now resolved to
go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga to
Astracnn." "Well, senhor," says I, "do not he uneasy ahout
being left to go back alone; if this he a method for my return to
England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at. all." We
"mu went. to consult. together what was to be done; and l asked my
partner what. he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would
suit with his atl'airsi' He told me he would do just as I would. for
he had settled all his affairs so well at. Bengal, and left his cll'ccls in

uch good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here, if he
could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as mi ht. lu-
worth the cam-i e, he would be content to go to En rtand, an the:
nuke his voyage aek to Bengal by the Company'l 5 'ps.
Having resoneu upon this, we "reed that if our Portuguese ilot
would go with us we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to rig-
land, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over gene-
rous in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, the service
he had done us being really worth more than that; for he had not
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about
it, and be' willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
and very mm; also to have him with us besides, for he was a most
necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to ive him a quantity of
coined gold, which, as I com ute it, came to a out one hundred and
seventy-five pounds sterling, etwcen us, and to bear all his charges,
both for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had com lained of our
being to let him (go back alone, and I was now to te him we were
resolved he shoul not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go
to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us:
and that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and
said it was a long journey, and he had no pecune to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told him we
believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something
for him that should let him see how sensible we were of the service
he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which he might lay
out as we would do our own; and that as for his charges, if he
would go with us we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Muscovy or England, which he would, at our
own charge, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal "e a man transported, and told us he would go with us
over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants:
they had man things to do; and instead of be' ready in five
weeks;; it was our mouths and some days before all-firings were got
to t er.

g1: was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back
.0 the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods
which we had left there: and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I
had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on his
own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bou ht ninety pieces of fine
damasks, with about two hundred ieces 01 other very fine silks of
several sorts, some mixed with go d, and had all these brought to
Pekin against m partner's return: besides this, we bought a very
large quantity 0 raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount
ing, in these goods only, to about three thousand five hundred288 munrvm or normsox CRVSOS.

pounds sterlin ; which, together with tea, and some fine calicoes,
and three came 3' loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode upon ; which, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our rctinue.

The company was verv great, and, as near as I can remember,
made between three and tour hundred horses, and upwards of one
hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all
events: for as the Eastern caravans are subject to be attacked by
the Arabs, so are these by the 'l'nrtnrs; but they are not altogether
so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous, when they prevail.

The company consisted of poo [C of several nations; but there
were above sixty of them mercmuts or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians; and to our particular sntis~
faction five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great. experience in business, and of very good substance.

When we. had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who "we
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to
say, all the. passengers except the servants, to a rear. council. as
they called it. At this council every one dcposite a certain quan-
tity to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying
the guides, getting horses, and the like: and here they constituted
the journey, as they culled it, viz. they named captains and officers
to draw us all up, and give the word of command, in case of an
attack, and give every one their tum of connnand; nor was this
forming us into order any more than what we found needl'ul upon
the way, as shall he observed.

In two days more we passed the rent China wall, made for a for-
tification against the Terms; an a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are
impossible, and the preeipices such as no enemy could ossihly
enter, or indeed climb u ), or where, if they did, no wall coul( hinder
them. 'l'hey tell us its ength is near a thousand English miles, but
that the country is five hundred in a straight measured line, which
the wall hounds, withom measuring the windings and turniugs it
takes: it is about four fathom: high, and as many thick in some
places.

I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far off, I mean that was within mv View;
and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for the wou-
der of the world, was mi lny eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excel ent thing to keep out the Tartnrs; which
he happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for I
oomphment; but the old pilot laughed; "O, Senhor Inglese," so
a, "you speak in colours."--"'In colours!" said I; what
you mean by thatP"--"Why, you speak what looks white thll
wayhand black that way: gay one way, and dull another. You tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that, it is

od for nothr but to keep out Tartars. I understand you,
tcnhor Inglese; understand you; but Senhor Chinese understood
you his own way."-----"Wcll," says I, "Senhor, do you think it
would stand out an army of our country people, with a ood train
of artillery, or our engineers, with two com anies o? miners?
Would not they batter it down in ten days, trat an army m' ht
enter in hattalia; or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, t at
there should be no sign of it left? "--" Ay, ay," says he, " I know
that ." The Chinese wanted mi htily to know what I said, and I
gave him leave to tell him a few ays after, for we were then almost
out of their countr , and he was to leave us in a little time after
this; but when he ' cw what I said, he was dumb all the rest of
the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese
power and greatness while he stayed.

After we passed this mightv nothing, called a wall, something like
the Piets' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans,
we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the
inroads and depreciation: of the Tau-tars, who rob in rest armies,
and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inha itants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of keepin
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops 0%
Tartars roving about; but when I came to see them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire could be con ucred by such
contemptible fellows; for they are a mere horde 0 wild fellows,
keeping no order, and understanding no discipline or manner of
fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit
for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which
was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our. leader for
the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they
call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep: however, it may be
called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swil'test of
feet that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they
appear generally thirty or fort-y in a flock, and, like true sheep,
r. ways keep to rether when they fly.

We were a this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild deem, which held us three days and
nights' march; and we were obliged to carry our water with us in
great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard
the do in the desert of Arabia.

{asked our uides whose dominion this was in: and they told me
this was a ki of border, and might be 'called No Man's Land, being290 anvnurms or nonmsou 0110803.

apart of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it was
reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no care taken
here to reserve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was
reckons the worst desert in the whole march, though we were to
go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me,
we saw, two or three times, little parties of the Tanars. Once, a
party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it
was to consider if they should attack us or not, we knew not; but
when we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile or thercahouts before us: but after a while they
marched ofl' ; only we found they saluted us with five arrows at their
parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and
we left him the next day, poor creature, in great need of a good
farrier; they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us,
but we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not bein so good
as at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of ' , but
lay for the most part in villages, some of which were fortified,
because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we were come to
one of these towns (it was about two (13. s and a half journey before
we were to come to the city of Naum), i wanted to bu a camel, of
which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon t at road, and
horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans coming that
way, they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me
a camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool,
must be oflicious, and go myself along with him: the place was about
two miles out. of the Villagc, where it seems they kept the camels and
horses feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being very
desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a
low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it, like a ark, with a little uard of
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having hought a camel, an a eed
for the price, I came away, and the Chinese-man that went wit me
led the camel, when on a sudden came u five Tartars on horseback;
two of them seized the fellow and too the camel from him, while
the other three stepped up to me and my old ilot, seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me ut my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came
up stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for the are errant
cowar s ; but a second coming upon my left, gave me a low on the
head, which I never felt till afterwards, and wondered, when I came
to in self, what was the matter, and Where I was, for he laid me flat
on L e ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Providence, unlocked for, directs deliverances from dangers which to
us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing
of, nor the Tartars neither: if they had, I stppose they would not
have attacked us ; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
den or. The old man seeing me down, with a. bold heart stepped up
to t 1e fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one
hand, and pulling him down by main force a little towards bun with
the other, shot rim in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot.
He then immediately stepped up to him who had sto ped us, as I_
said, and before he could come forward again, made a. low at him
with a scimitar which he always wore, but missing the man, out his
horse in the side of his head, out one of the ears off by the root, and
a great slice down by the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed y his rider, though
the fellow sat well enough 100, but away he flow, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising upon his
hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no weapon: however, seeing; the Tartar down, and his
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizi upon an ugly
ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something e a pole-axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift
to knock his 'l'artarian brains out with it. But m old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still, and seeing he id not fly, as he
expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand
stock-still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle,
to charge his pistol again; but as $00n as the Tartar saw the pistol,
away he scoured, and left my pilot, my champion I called him after--
wards, a complete victory.

By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought when I first
negan to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I saitY
above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and
what was the matter. But a few moments after, as sense returned,
I felt pain, though I did not know where; so I clapped my hand to
my head, and took it away bloody: then I felt my head ache; ano
then, in a moment, memory returned, and every thing was present
to me again. I jumped upor. my feet instantly, and got hold of my
sword, but no enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse stun ' very quietly by him; and, looking further, I saw on
champion an deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great
deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed ; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it was not much, only what
we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great
islconvenienee from the blow, for it was well again in two or three

aye.

We made no great gain, however, by this victory. for we lost a
camel and gained a horse; but that. which was remarkable. when we
came back to the village. the man denmuded to he paid for the
camel; l disputed it, and it was brought to a litarin;r before the
Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted with a
great deal of prudence and impartiality: and, having:r heard lmth
sides, he <<nuvetf asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy
the camel, whose servant he was? "1 am no servant," :'i '5 he,
" but went with the st 'anger."--" At whose request?" says the
justice. "At the stranger's request," says he. "\'l'lty, then,"
says the 'ustice, " you were the stranger's servant for the time; and
the camel being delivered to his servant, it. was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it."

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a Word to
say: but, admiring to see such just. reasoning upon the conse-
quence, and an accurate stating ot' the ease, l paid willingly for
the camel, and sent. for another; hut, you may observe, I did
not go to l'rteh it 'o'._\':<<t'il. any more, for 1 had enough of thnt.

The city ol' Nnutn is a frontier (it. the Chinese empire: they 'ail
it t'ortilird, and so it is, as l'ortitientions go there; for this I will
venture to afiirm, that ail the 'l'artat's in Karaltathay, whit-h I
believe, are some millions. could not hatter down the walls with
their hows and arrows; hut to call it strong, it it were attacked
with cannon, would he to make those who understand it laugh at
you.

We wanted, as l have said, above two days' journey of this city,
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell
all travellers and (-araraus to halt till they had a guard sent. for
them; for that an unusual hotly of 'l'arlars, making ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the
City.

'PhAS was very hud news to travellers; however, it was carefully
none of the gorernor, and we were very glad to hear "'0 should have
a guard. _\t.~cordiugly, two days nt'tt , we had two hundred soldiers
sent. us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our it". and three
hundred more from the city of Nauru, and with these we advanced
boldly, the three hundred soldiers from Xaum nun'ched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each side ol' our
camels, with our lizwgage, and the whole caravan in the centre- in
this order, and wet? prepared for battle, We thought ourselves a
match for the whole ten thousand Mogul 'l'artnrs, if they had
upppcared; hut. the next day, when they did appear, it was quite
another thing.

It was early in the morning, when, untrehiueF from a well situated
little town, called Clmngu, we had a river to pass, which we were
ohli ed to ten" ; and had the 'l'artars had any intelligence, then
had can the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind ; hut they did not appear there. About.
three hours after, when we were entered upon a. desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold. by a cloud of dust the raised,
we saw an enemy was at hand; and they were at hand, in ced, for
they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the
day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready
to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me,
called out, "Senhor Inglese," says he, "those fellows must be en
couragcd, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tarth come on, they
will never stand it.."---".l am of your mind," said I; " but what
must he dorm?" ----" Done l" says he, "let fifty of our men advance,
and ilauk them on each wing, and cncour 0c them; and they will
light like brave follows in brave com any: u'., without this, they
will every man turn his back. Immediately I rode up to our leader,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right mug, and lift y to the lel't, and the rest
made a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last two
hundred own to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels: only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last titty.

in a word, the Tart-51's came on, and an innumerable com any
they were: how many we could not tell, but ten thousan , we
thought, was the least: a party of them came on first and viewed
our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and, as
we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot,
which was done; but they went oil', and I suppose hack, to give an
account of the recention they were likely to meet with; and, indeed,
that salute cloved I. icir stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood
awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over
their design, and said no more to us for that time; which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for
a battle with such a number.

Two days after we came to the city of Noun, or Naum; we
thanked 1.! c governor for his care of us, and collected to the value
of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers
sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison,
indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the
reason of it was, that. formerly the Muscovitc frontiers lay nearer to
them than they now do, the Muscorites having abandoned that )art
of the country, which lies from this city west [or about two hun red
miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being so
very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence;
for we had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so
called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadfid
deserts; one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and
which, as 1 said, was to be called No Man's Land; and, on the 13th
of April, we came to the frontiers of the MuseOVite dominions. I
think the first town, or fortress. whichever it may be called, that
belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argun, being on the
west side of the river Argun.

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in u coun-
try governed by Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my
opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, ct such they pre-
tend to be, and are very devout in their way. twould certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and who had
any power of reflection, what u blessing it is to be brought into the
world where the name of God and a Redeemer is known, adored and
worship co; and not where the people, given up by Heaven to
strong delusions, Worship the devil, and prostrate txemselvcs to
stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped ani-
mals, and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city we
passed through, but had their pagods, their idols, and their temples,
and ignorant. people worshipping even the works of their own hands.
Now we came where. at. least, a face of the Christian worship
appeared ; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignor-
antly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of
the true God was called u )on and adored, and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. 1 saluted t re brave Scots merchant I mentioned
above with my lirst acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the
hand, I said to him, "Blessed be God, we are once again amongst
Christians." llc smiled, and answered, " Do not rejoice too soonI
countryman! these Muscorites are but an odd sort of Christians;
and but for the name of it, you ma)r see very little of the substance
for some months farther of our journey." " Well," says 1, " but
still it is better than paganism and worshipping ol' devils." "Why,
I will tell you," says he, "except the Russian soldiers in the gar-
risons, and a low of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all
the rest of this country, for above a thousand miles farther, is inhu-

bited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans ; " and so indeed wr
found a
MUTE THROUGH MUSCOVY--ROBINSON AND A score "ROMAN!
DESTROY AN IDOL--THE WHOLE CARAVAN IN GREAT PERU.
FRO)! THE PURSUIT OF THE PAGANS--TOBOLSKI--DEPARTUBE
FRO]! TOBOLDKI--ENCOUNTEB. WITH A TROOP 0F ROBBERS IN
THE DESERT--ROBINSON BEACHES ARCHANGEL, AND FINALLY
ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I
understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to be found
in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve hundred miles to
the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea,
westward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea and went
on west, to the British and French channels; we had full live thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about ei ht
hundred to the Frozen sea, north. Nay, if some people may be e-
lievcd, there might be no sea, north-east, till We came round the
pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of land into America; though I could give some reasons why I be-
lieve that to be a mistake. '

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before
we came to an considerable towns, we had nothing to observe
there but this: irst, that all the rivers run to the east: as I under-
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it
was Vlain all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, or Amour;
whici river, by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sea,
or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous owth, viz. three
feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must e allowed to say,
I believe nothing of it; but, as its navxgation is of no use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom it alone belongs.
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has
been curious enough to go down to the mouth of it inboats, or came
up from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find: but this in
certain, that this river, running east, in the latitude of about fii'tr
degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an
ocean to empty itself in that latitude: so we are sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river there are several consider
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs
east, and these are all found to join their waters with the great river
Tartarus, named so from the northermost nations of the Mogul Tar-
tars; who, as the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Ma 0g men-
tioned in sacred story. These rivers running all northward, as well
as all the other rivers I am yet to Speak of, make it evident that the
northern ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does
not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itscll
to join with America on that side, or that there is not a cmmnnnica-
tiou between the northern and eastern ocean: but of this I shall say
no more ; it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take
notice of it in this place.

We now advanced {mm the river Argun by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Mus-
covy has taken to have cities and towns built in as many places as
it is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, some-
thing like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the
remotest countries of their empire ; some of which that I had read
of were placed in Britain, for the security of commerce, and for the
lodging travellers; and thus it was here: for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were
Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were merc
pagans; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the
heathens and p trans that ever I met with, the most barbarous,
except only that t icy did not eat men's flesh, as our savages ol' Ame>>
rica did.

Some instances of this we met within the countryr between
Argun, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of
Tartars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which is a
continued desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel
over. In a village, near the last of these places, I had the curiosity
to o and see tieir war of living, which is most brutish and in--
s crable; they had had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day ; for
there stood out, n on an old stump of a tree, an idol made of
wood, frightful as 1; 1c devil ; at least, as any thine we can think of
to represent the devil can be made : it had a headD not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears as big as
goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece; a. nose like
a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended four-corned, like that
of a liOn, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill: it
was dressed up in the filthiest- manner that you could suppose: its
upper garment was of shoe skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the has with two horns growing through it:
it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other
proqurtion of parts.

' is scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and,
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinc-
tion by their habits, all lying flat u on the ground round this
formidable block of shapeless wood: i) saw no motion among them
any more than if they had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and
at first I really thought they had been so ; but, when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a howling cry,
as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away,
as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way
ofl' from the idol, and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of
sheepskins and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers,--I thought
they were such: when I came nearer to them, I found they had
long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared
three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it seems,
were sacrifices to that senseless 103 of an idol; the three men were
priests belonoing to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were
the people w 0 brought the ofi'ering, and were making their prayers
to that stock.

I confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of ahobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life;
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had
granted so many advantages, even by creation above the rest of
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothin , a
mere imaginar ob'cct, dressed up by themselves, and made tem is
to themsetives y their own contrivanee, adorned only with clout-s
and rags; and that this should be the eifect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envyin"
to his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded
them into such sordid and brutish things as one would think should
shock nature itself!

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts ~
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes. and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossible: all my admiration turned to
rage, and I rode u to the image or monster, call it what you will,
and with my swor made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its
head, and out it in two; and one of our men that was with me too):
hold of the shoe skin that covered it, and pulled at it; when,
behold, a most ideous outer and howling ran throughout the
village. and two or three hun en people came about my ears, an

n
that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again.

Our caravan rested three ni, his at the town. which was about
four miles ofl', in order to provi e some horses which they Wanted,
several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with the badness
of the way, and long march over the last desert; so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my
pi'gect to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I had
su cient testimony : I told him what I had seen, and with what indig-
atiOn I had since thought that human nature could be so degenerate:
I told him if I could get but four or five men well armedto go
with me, I was resolved to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol,
and let them see that it had no power to help itself; and conse-
quently could not be an ob'ect of worship, or to be prayed to, much
less help them that oli'ere sacrifices to it.

He laughed at me: says he, " Your zeal may be good, but what
do you propose to yourself by it ?"--" Propose!" said 1 ; "to
vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-worship."
--" But how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, " while
the people will not be able to know what. you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them, and tell them so? And then they will
light you, and beat. you too, I'll assure you; for they are desperate
fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry."--"Can we
not," said I, " do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons
and the causes in writingr in their own language P"--" Writing!"
said he; " why there is not a man in five nations of them that knows
anything of a letter, or how to read a word any wa '."--" Wretched
ignorance!" said I to him: "however, I have a great mind to do
it ; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them, to let them
see :ow brutish they are to worship such horrid things."---"Look
~mu, sir," said he, " if your zeal prompts you to it so Warmly, you
must do it; but in the next place, I would have you consider, these
wild nations of poo le are subjected by force to the Czar of Mus-
covy's dominion, an if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and demand
satisfaction; and if he cannot ive thorn satisfaction, it is ten to
one but they revolt; and it wil occasion anew war with allthe
Tartars in the country.

This, I confess, put new thoughts into m head for awhile, but I
harped upon the some string still ; and all t at day I was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the evening the Scots
merchant met me by accident in our walk about the town, and
desired to speak with me: "I believe," said he, " I have put you oi!
yoru' good design ; I have hccna little concerned about it since : for 1
abhor idolatry as much as you can do."--" Truly," said 1," you haVo
put it oil" a little, as to the execution of it, but you have not put it
out of my thoughts: and I believe I shall d.) it beforeI quit this place,
though I were to he delivered up to them for satisfaction."--" No, no,"
said he, "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew 01
monsters! They shall not do that neither; that would be murdering
you indeed."-" Why," said 1, "how would they use me ?"--" Use
you!" said he, " I'll tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
afi'ronted them in their worship, just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after the had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not run
away: they took rim and stripped him stark-naked, and set him upon
the top of tlie idol-monster, and stood all round him, and shot as many
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and then the burnt
him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the i 01."--
" And was this the same idol?" said I. " Yes," said he, " the very
same."--" Well," said I, " I will tell you a story." So I related
the story of our men at Ma vascar, and how they burnt and sacked
the village there, and kille man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before; and I added,
that I thought we ought to do so to this village.

He listened ver attentively to the story; but when I talked of
do' so to that v' age, said he, " You mistake very much; it was
not t ' village, it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but
it was the same idol, for they carry him about in procession all over
the eountr ."--"Well," said I, " then that idol ought to be punished
for it; an it shall," said I, " if I live this ni lit out."

In a word, finding me resolute, he flied the design, and
told me I should not go alone, but he would go Wltll me,
and hrin a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with
us: "an one," said he, "as famous for his zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these." In a word, he
brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain
Richardson; and gave him a full account of what I had seen, and
also what I intended; and he told me readily, he would go with me
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, roposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he
was rea y to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence; but this was an adventure quite out of his way: so,
I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man.
servant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight, with
all the secrecy imaginable.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till
the next night, because, the caravan being to set forward in the
morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to ive them
any satisfaction upon us when we were out of his power. he Scots
merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or wn of shee skins, and
a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and h provided t e same for
himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw is. should
not be able to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter
with aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could
pet; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about on
tour after night we set out upon our expedition.

We come to the. place ahout eleven o'clock at night, and found
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their
idol. The night was cloudy ; yet the moon gave as light enough to
see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest; only, that in the
great hot, or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priest-s
whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light; and going up close
to the door, we heard people talking as if there Were five or six of
them; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild-fire to the idol,
these men would come out immediately, and run up to the place to
rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it; and what to
do with them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away
and setting tire to it at a distance, but when we came to handle it,
we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a 1053 again.
The second Scotsman was for setting: fire to the tent. or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they
came out; but 1 could not join with. that; l was against killing
thorn, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well then," said the Scots
merchant, I will tell you what we will do: " we will try to make them
risoners, tie their hands, and make them stand and see their idol
( cstroycd."

As it happened, we had twine or packthrcad enough about us,
Which was used to tie our firwcorks together with: so we resolved
to a1tack these peo le first, and with as little noise as we Could.
The first thing we id, we knocked at the door, when, one of the
priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to lhe idoi, where
we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also
together, and left him on the ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would
come out, to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till
the third man came back to us; and then nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the some manner, but were obliged to go all
with them, and lav them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, going back, we found two more were come out to
the. door. and a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third stepping back,
and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and, taking
out a composition we had made, that would only smoke and stink,
he set fire to it and threw it in among them: by that time the
other Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the two men ahead
bound. and tied together also by the arm, led them away to the idol.wvnmuus or nonmson 6311803. 301

and left them there to see if their idol would relieve them. making
haste back to us.

When the fuze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so much
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and follo '
it in, we found there were but four people, who, as we supposed,
beenabout some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid,
and not able to speak neither, for the smoke.

in a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all without any noise. I should have said we brought them out
of the house, or hut, first ; for indeed we were not able to bear the
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we
carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to
work with him; and first we daubed him all over, and his robes also,
with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes and ears and mouth full
of gunpowder; then we wra )ped up a great piece of wild-fire in his
bonnet; and then stickinw a the combustibles we had brought with
us upon him, We looked 8. out to see if we could find anything else
to help to burn him, when my Scotsman remembered that by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a hoe of dry forage,
whether straw or rushes I do not remember; away e and the other
Scotsman run and fetched their arms full of that. When they had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brouvrht them, havin
untied their feet and ungafigged their mouths, and, made them stan
up, and set them before tioir monstrous idol, and then set fire to

Ii.llC whole. .
We stayed by it a uarter of an hour, or thereabouis, till the

powder in the eyes an. mouth and cars of the idol blew up, and as
we could perceive, had split and deformed the she e of It; and In a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or 0g of wood; and
settin dry forage to it, we found that it would be soon quite con-
sumedgg so we began to think of going awa ; but the Scotsmau'said:
" No, we must not go, for these poor eluded wretches will all
throw themselves into the fire, and burn themselves With the idol."
So we resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then
some away and left them. _ _

After the feat was performed, we appeared in the morngng among
our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in ttmg ready for our Journey;
nor could any man suggest that We as been an where but in our
'beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to t themselves for the
'faligues of the day's Journey

But the affair did not end so: the next day came a great number
of the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the Russmn governor for the m-

snlting their priests, and burning their Chanr Chi-Thungn. The
people of Ncrtzinskoi were at first in a great consternation, for they
said the 'l'artars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave
them all the good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from an body there; but if they
could let him know who did it, they shouhgbe exemplarilv punished.
They returned hanghtily, that all the country reverenced the great
Chum Chi-'l'hanugu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would
have dared to ofl'cr violence to his imavc but some Christian miscre-
ant; and they therefore resolved to denounce war against him and
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
have any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having
strictly charged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness
and civility, gave them still all the good words he could. At last
he told them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that morn-
ing, and perhaps it was some. of them who had done them this
injury ; and that if they would be satisfied with thatI he would send
aficr them to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little;
and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it, they should make their escape ; but that, whe-
zher we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward
that was possible; and that, in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long: as he could.

This was very friendly in the ovemor: however, when it came
to the caravan, there was nobody 'new anythin of the matter; and
as for us that were guilty, we were least of all suspected. How-
ever, the captain of the caravan for the time took the hint that the
governor gave us, and we travelled two days and two nights without
any considerable stop, and then we lay at a villa (2 called Plothus:
nor did we make any long stop here, but hastene- on towards Jara-
wcnu, another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we
expected we should be safe. lint u )on the second day's march
from l'lothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a great distance,
some of our pco le began to be sensible we were pursued. We had
entered a great esert, and had passed by a great lake called Schanks
()sicr, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake, to the north, we travellin west. We
observed they went away west, as we did, but h supposed we
would have takcnrhat side of the lake, whereas we very happily took
the south side; and in two days more they disagpeared vain: for
they, believing we were still before them, pushe on till t cy came
to the river lldda, a very great river when it asses farther north,
but. when we came to it we found it narrow an fordable.

The third day, they had either found their mistake. or had intelliaADVEXTUBEB 0! ROBINSON 01111502. 303

gence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the
even' . We-had, to our great satisfaction, just itched upon a
place or our camp, which was very convenient for t e night -. for as
we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was
above five hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, in-
deed, expeeted none but the city Jarawena, which we had yet two
days' march to: the desert, however, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that
we pitched our camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.

Nobod knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it
was usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves eVery night against
them, as against armies of robbers: and it was therefore no new
thing to be pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be sur-
rounded, or attacked in any way but in our front or rear. We took
care also to make our front as stron & we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, in a line on the inside of the
river, and felling some trees in our rear.

In this posture we eneam ed for the night; but the enemy was
upon us before we had finis ed our situation. They did not come
on us like thieves, as we ex ected, but sent three messengers to us,
to demand the men to be elivered to them that. had abused their
priests, and burned their god Chain Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they
might burn them with fire; and upon this, the said, they would go
away, and do us no further harm, otherwise t ey would destroy us
all. Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces:
but nodod was the word ; nobody did it. The leader of the caravan
sent word, he was well assured that it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our busi-
ness ; that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and
that, therefore, they must look further for their enemies who had
injured them, for we were not the people; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we shoal defend ourselves.

They were far from oeing satisfied with this for an answer; and a
great crowd of them came runni..g down in the morning by break
of day, to our camp; but seeing as in such an unaccountable situa-
tion, they durst come no farther than the brook in our front, where
they stood and showed us such a number that indeed terrifiedus
very much: for those that s oke least of them spoke of ten thou-
sand. Here they stood and ooked at us awhile, and then setting up
a great howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were
well enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not remember that one of us was hurt.

Some time after this, we saw them move a little to our right, and
expected them on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of
Jarewena, in the pay of the Muscoritcs, cullin to the leader of the
caravan, said to him, " I'll go send all these peo e away to Sibeilka : "
this was a cit y four or five days' journey at east to the right, and
rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and gettinrr on
horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it were buci to
Nertzinskoi; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on the army of the 'l'artars, as if he had been sent ex mess
to tell them a long story, that the people who had burned the ham
Chi-'l'huungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants,
as he called them, that is to say, Christians; and that they had
resolved to burn the god Schal-lsm'g, belon ing to the Tonguescs.

As this fellow was himself mnere Tartar, ant perfectly spoketheir lan-
guage, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it from him, and
away they drove in it most violent hurry to Sibeilkn, which, it seems,
was live days' journey to the north; and in less than three hours
they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more
of them, nor whether they went to Sibcilka or no. So we passed?
away safely on to Jurawena, where there was a garrison of Museum
vites, and there we rested live days, the caravan being exceedingly
fatigued with the last days' hard- march, and with want of rest in:
tuc night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which hold us twenty--
three days' march. W'e furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night ; and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons of the country,
for carrying our water or provisions; and these carri. <<as were our
defence, everyr night, round our little camp; so that brill the 'I'urtars
appeared, unless they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us.

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long jour--
ney : for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bulb; though we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, who are all
Torture oi the Mogul Tartary, of which this country is a part; and
they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw no numbers of
them together.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty
u all inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled
by the Czar of Muscovy, with fiarrisons of stationary soldiers, to
protect the caravans, and defer) the country against the 'lfal'lurs,
who would otherwise make it very dauucrous travellin"; and his.
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the well uardinc'
the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartan; eard oil:
in the country, detachments of the garrison are always sent to seer
the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, b
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offer
us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the
next station.

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we
should find the country better inhabited, and the people more civil-
ized; but I found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet the
nation of the Tongueses to ass thro h, where we saw the same
tokens of aganism and bar arity asubefore ; only, as the were
conquered _y the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; at for
rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no peo 1e in the world ever went
beyond them: they are clothed all in sins of beasts, and their
houses are built of the same; you know not a man from a woman,
either by the ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
underground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to an-
other. If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-T ungu for a whole vil-
laSSe or country, these had idols in every but and every cave: be-
si es, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a
word, every thing they do not understand, and they understand but
very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing, sets them
a sacrificing. I met With nothing eculiar to myself in all this
country, which I reckon was, from t e desert I spoke of last, at
least four hundred miles, half of it being another desert, which took
us up tWelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as
bread. After we were out- of this desert, and had travelled two
days, we came to J anezay, a Museovite city or station on the great
river Janezay (Yenisay), which, they told us there, parted Europe
from Asia

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Moseovite garrisons ; all the country between the river Oby and
the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any when in Asia or
America. I also found, which I observed to the Museorrte govern-
ment ; which they acknowledged was true enough; but that, as they
said, was none of their busmess; that if the Qzar ex ected to
convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar subiects, 1t shoul be done
by sending elergymen among them, not so diers; and they added
with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was'not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
it was to make them subjects. _ '

From this river to the eat river Oby, we crossed a Wild unculti-
vatcd country, barren 0 people and ' ood management; other
wise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruit- ul, and agreeable country.
What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, except such as are306 snvnm'unes or ROBINSON cnososi

hem among them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on
both sides the river ()by, whither the Muscovite criminals that are
not put to death are banished, and from whence it is next to impossible
they should ever come away.

I have not hing material to sav of my particular all'airs till I came
to 'I'oholski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time
on the following occasion.

We had now been almost. seven months on our journey, and
winter began to come on apace; whereupon m partner and I called
a council about our )articular affairs, in whic we found it pro er,
us we were bound to liugland, and not for Moscow, to consider low
to dispose of ourselves. They told us of rein-deer to carry us over
the snow in the winter time; and, indeed, they have such things
that it would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the Russians travel more in the Winter than they can in
summer, as in these sludges they are able to run night and day; the
snow being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the
hills, vales. rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
they run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.

But 1 had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; I
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways;
either 1 must go on as the caravan went, till Icamc to Jarcslaw, and
than go 011' west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so to
Dantzic. where 1 might possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage;
or 1 must leave the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from
whence I had but. six days by water to Archangel, and from thence
might be sure of shipping either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous: for as to Dent-tic, the Baltic would have been frozen
up, and I could not get passage ; and to go by land in these coun-
tries was far less safe than among the Mogul 'l'artars ; likewise, to
go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone from thence,
and even the merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of
provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter; so that,
upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan
go, and make )rovision to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in
Siberia, in the iatitudc of about sixty degrees, where 1 was sure of
three things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. leuty of provisions,
such as the country all'orded, a warm house wit: fuel enough, and
excellent company.

1 was new in quite a ditl'crent climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt cold, except when 1 had my ague; on the con-
trary, 1 had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never
made any fire but without doors, whic; was necessary for dressing
my food,&c Now 1 made me three good vests, with large robe:
or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them sulfieiently
warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in
England 01' making tires in everv room in the house in open chimneys,
which, when the fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold
as the climate; but taking an apartment in a. good house in the
town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke
went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and
all the rooms were kept e ually warm, but no fire seen, just as they
beat the b rmios in England. By this means, we had alwn s the same
climate in a l the rooms, and an equal heat was preserve ; and how
cold soevcr it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we
saw no lire, nor were ever ineommodcd with smoke.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I
thought. it; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my
face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight;
the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months,
not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the snow lying
on the ground continually, and the weather clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were kept, or rather starved, underground, and
as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and
horses, we had, every new and then, their fingers and tees to thaw
and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall oil.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton and of the buffaloes, which is (pretty good meat. All
the stores of provisions for the winter are lei up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua~vitie instead of
brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they
have excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers
l're uently brought us in line venison, and sometimes benr's flesh, bu:
we id not much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, wit!
which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and well,
all things considered.

It was now March 15; the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to (prepare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get thin 5 tea ll to be
going: but my measures be' 0 fixed, as I have said, or Are angel,
and not for Museo or the B tie, I made no motion ; knowing very
well that the shipsvfl'om the south do not set out for that part of the
world till Mav or J one, and that if I was there by the beginning oi
August, it wouldbeas soon as any ships would be ready to go away;303 Mirror-nouns or nonrusox meson.

and therefore I made no haste to be gone, as others did : in a word;
Isaxv a great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me.
It seems, every year they go from thence to Muscovv for trade, viz.
to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which the bring back with them
to furnish their shops : also others went on i. to same errand to Arch-
angel ; but then they all being to come back again, above eight huu~
drod miles, went all out. before me.

In the month of May I began to make all ready to pack up; I
had bought- a considerable quantity of sablrs, black fox-skins, line-
crmines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city, in exchan c
for some of the goods 1 had brought from China: in particular fort re
cloves and nutmt-gs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and the'
rest. afterwards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could
have got in London ; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit,.
and whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
was mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the tratfic we made-
here.

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a city,
I believe, little heard of in the world : and, indeed, it is so far out of'
the road of commerce, that. I know not how it. should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a very small caravan, having only
lhirty-two horses and camels in all. "'0 had now the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole journey ;
I call it. the worst, because the way was very deep in some platens,
and very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops of 'l'artnrs or robbers to fear, and that.
the never came on this side the river Oby, or at least; but very
scl om; but we found it. otherwise.

W 0 had just ooh-red Europe. having passed the river Kama, which
in these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and tho first
city on the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as
much as to say, the gr ll city on the river Kama; and here we
thought to see some evident. alteration in the people; but. we were
mistaken: for as we had a vast. desert to pass, which is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we )assed it, so, till we came past that. horrible place, we
found very little dilfcreucc between that country and the Mogul Tar--
tary : the people are mostly pagans, and little better than the savages
of America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of
living wholy barbarous, except. in the cities, as above, and the villages
uour tin-m, where they are Christians, as they call themselves, of the
Greek church; but have their religion mingled with so many relics of

uperstition, that- it is scarce to be known in some places from more
orccry and witchcraft.

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must. (after all our
dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before) have been plun-
dered and robbed, and perl'saps murdered, by a troop of thieves oi
what countr they were 1 am yet at a loss to know, but they were
all on horse aek, carried bows and arrows, and were at first about
forty-five in number: they came so near to us as to be within two
musket shots, and asking no questions, surrounded us with their
horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice: at length they
)laeed themselves just in our way; upon which we drew up inalittle
'ne, before our camels, being not above sixteen men inall; and being
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out a. Siberian servant, to see
who they were. The man came up near them with a fix of truce,
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their an ea,
or dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word 1: ey
said: however, after some si to him not to come nearer to them,
at his peril, the fellow cmne aek no wiser than he went : only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of Kal-
muck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more ot
them upon the great desert, though he had never heard that any of
them were seen so far north before.

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and
rode round our little wood to see where they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again; and we
resolved not to stir for that night.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there
was on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
grove, and very near the road: I immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees, and fortif ourselves as well as we could
there: for, first, I considered that t e trees would in 8. eat measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place, he could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old ortuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him,
that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us
in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what
speed we could, and gained that little wood; the Tartar-5, or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not ,
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the
one side a very SSreat 3 ring of water, which running out in a little
brook was, a litt e fart er, joined by another of the like size; and
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this sprin were not above two
hundred, but very large, and stood Pretty thic , So that as soon as
we got in we saw ourselves perfect y sale from the enemy, unless
they attacked us on foot.

While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese,
with some help, out several arms of trees half otf, and laid them
hangin across from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us
in. A out two hours before night they came down directly m310 mvsnrurtns or summer censor.

us; and though we had not perceived it, we found tley had been
Fpined by some more of the some, so that they were near fourseoro
norse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
czuue on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when we
fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the Russian
tongue to know what they wanted, and bade them keep 011': but
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not. imaginin~
we were so barricaded that they could not easily break in. Our 01

pilot was our captain, as well us our engineer, and desired us not to
tire upon them till they came within pistol--shot, that we might be
sure to kill; and that when we did fire, we should be sure to take
good aim: we bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes'
length of us when we let. fly. ""8 aimed so true that we killed four-
teen of them, and wounded several others, as also several of their
horses; for We had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets at least.

They were ierrihly surprised with our fire, and retreated imme-
diately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our
pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and
notched four or tire of their horses, whose riders we supposed were
killed; and coming u to the dead, we judged they were 'l'urters,
but knew not how t ey came to make an excursion of such ar.
unusual lengi h. .

We slept little, you may be sure, but. 5 cut the most part of the
night in strengthening our situation, an berriezuliug the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. we waited for daylight,
and when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery, indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they met with, were now greatly increased, and had set. up eleven or
twelve huts or tents, as if the were resolved to besierve us; and
this little camp they had pitche upon the 0 )en plain, dbout three
uuarters of a mile from us. We were in ced surprised at 'his
discovery ; and new, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all
that I had; the loss of my eti'ects did not lie so near me, though
very considerable, as the then hts of falling into the hands of such
barbarians, at the latter end 01 my journey, after so manyr difficulties
and hazards as I had gone throu h, and even in sight. of our port,
where we expected satiety and deliverance. As to my partner, he
was raginrr, and declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and that Phe would rather die than be starved; and he was for
fighting to the last drop. -

We spent the day in debates of what we should do; but towards
event we found that the number of our enemies still increased, and
we d1? not know but by the mo ' they m' Id. be a still greater
number: so I began to enquire of t ose peoifie we had brought
from Tobolslti. i" there were no private ways, by which we might
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get
help to guard as over the desert. l'he Siberian servant, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would 8 e to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, tows the river
Pctrou, by which he made no question but we might ct away, and
the Tar-tars never the wiser. I told him that if e thou ht it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to 0 but
to attempt it, and we immediately prepared for putting it in
practice.

And, first, as soon as it be an to be dark, we kindled a fire in our
little camp, which we kept urni , and repared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars mig it cone ude we were still there ;
but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not stir before), having all our horses and camels ready
loaded, we followed our new guide, who 1 soon found steered
himself by the north star.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter
still ; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to
rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be;
but by six o'clock the next mornimg we wer' got above thirty miles,
nuvin r almost spoiled our horses Here we h. und a Russian village,
name Kermanzinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours before ni ht we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, t ough not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river, called Kirtza, and came to a orood large tow: inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomys: there we heard that several troops of
Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but we were now com-

letely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.
lilorc we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and having need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and I agreed to
give the honest Siberian who had brought us thither the value of
ten pistoles.

in five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Wit-zogda,
and running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily, near the
end of our travels by land, that river being navigable, in seven days'
passage, to Archangel From hence we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d
of Jdl ; and providing ourselves With two luggage boats,_ and a
barge or our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five months, and
three days on the journe , including our stay of eight months
at 'l'obolski. We were obliged to stay at this place so: weeks
for the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longE', had
not an Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when after some consideration that the art of
Hamburg ht ha pen to be as good a market for our as
London. we too freight with him.
We then set sell from Archangel the 20th of August, the same
year; and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Ellie
the 18th of September. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods, as well those of China, as the sables, 8:0. of
Siberia; and dividing the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three )ence, including about six hundred pounds worth of
diamonds \r rich I purchased at Bengal.

To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburg-h,
I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the

acket, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, having
liven absent from England ten years and nine months. And here I
am, preparing for :t longer journey than all those, having lived a
a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, and learned sufficient-1v to
know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days
in peace.

 

v_____--_..-.__.____'.--__--___,

THE IOTOIJ'K PRINTING WORKS. CROSSKBY SQUARE, LITTLE BRITAIN, LONDON, 3.6.

 

_--_-....--..--.. a...
 

, z Scott. "Waverley,""Kenilworth,""Ivanhoe,"&"Antiqnary."

l

 

 

 

POPULAR NOVELS.

________________-----------

FAVOURITE AUTHORS.

In picture boards, price 2!. each.

6 Running the Blockade. By

Lieutenant Wannlroxn.
8 MaryBunyan,theDreamer's
Blind Daughter. By S. R. Form.
9 Back Log studlee,&c. By

CHARLES Dunner WARNER.

10 Beeton's Book of Riddles

and Acting Charades. illust.

u Josh Billings and Major
Jack Downing.

x2 Blglow Papers, by J. R.
LowsLL, and Sue's Poems.

' 13 The Redskins. FLACK.

:7 Choice Anecdotes and
Good Stories.

I8 TheCard Player'sManual.
By Captain Cruwmzv.

19 Helen's Babies, and other
People's Children. Illustrated.

 

' 20 Little Miss Mischief. By
Susan Coounen. Illustrated.

2x Grown - up Babies and
Other People. Illustrated.

25 Hood's WhimeacOddlties.

26 Struggles and Triumphs;
Recollections of P. T. Barnum.

(Also cloth gilt, 28. 6d.)

27 Hunting Adventures
Forest and Field.

28 Autobiography of a Mer-
chant.

29 Horses and Riders. Os.
warn Cannon>>. [sures-

30 Book of Country Plea-

. 3: Travels In Portugal. By

I Jon-m Lnoucun.

32 Beeton's Popular Stories.
Illustrated.

in

 

BOY'S OWN STORY 'BOOKS of DARING 8; ADVENTURE.

(Double Volumes of Amuzn's TALES.) Crown Svo. picture boards, 23. each.

r The Foster Brothers.
4 The White Buffalo.
5 The Robbers ofthe Forest.

. 6 Pale Face and Red Skin.
7 Loyal Heart;
8 Eagle Head.

' r Anecdote, Wit 8t Humour.

LIBRARY on "STANDARD Novnms'rs.

Demy 8vo. cloth gilt. price as. 611. each.

2 Bulwer. Containing " Pelham," "Paul Clifford," "Last Days
ol Pompeii," and " Eugene Arm."

3 Marryat. Containing " Midshipman Easy," " Japhet in Search
at a Father," " Jacob Faithful," and " Peter Simple."

Charles O'Malley. By Cannes LEVER. New Library

Edition. With Plates by P312. and Illustrations by Canon TEOIPSOR.
Royal 8vo, cloth gilt, price 73. 6d.

COMIC HOLIDAY BOOKS.

Demy avo, with Illustrations, picture wrapper, price 13. each.

5 Fun for All.

6 Fun for the Million.

7 Funny People.

8 Wonderful Travellers.

 

 

2 Beeton's Jokes and Jests.
3 Comic Holiday Book.
4 Fun for Everybody.

.-_.--___--___.__-------.--

 

WARD, LOCK & C0., London, Melbourne. and New York.
95

 

KPOPULAR BOOKS OF HUMOUR.

 

WARD & Loews Humoeous Booxs.

In picture wrapper, price ls. each.

HHH
06" C10 wV C'UIJLW I.)

19
2O
21
22
23
24

26

 

Artemus Ward : His Book.
Beeton's Riddle Book.
Burlesques.
Book of Charades.
The Biglow Papers.
Saxe's Poems.
Joe Miller's Jest Book.
Connubial Bliss.
Pusley. By C. D. WARNER.
Back-Log Studies. Ditto.
Sandy Bar. BRET HARTE.
Roaring Camp. Ditto.
The Heathen Chinee. Do.
Hood's Wit and Humour.
Whims. By THOMAS Hoot).
Oddities. Ditto.
Innocents Abroad. TwAm.
New Pilgrim's Progress.
By MARK TWAIN.
Jerrold's Jokes and Wit.
Marjorie Daw. ALDRICH.
Jumping Frog. M. TWAIN.
Letters to Punch. By
Aeruus WARD.
Artemus Ward among the
Mormons.
That Dreadful Boy,Trotty
Eye Openers. M. Twmx.
Practical Jokes. Ditto.

Screamers. Ditto.
Awful Crammers.

Babies and Ladders.

Holmes'WIt and Humour.
Josh Billings: His Sayings.
The Danbury Newsman.
Mystery of Mr. E. Drood.
Shaving Them.

 

 

Mr. Brown & Mrs. Brown. I

Sensation Novels. By
Burr "Aura.

Mr. Sprouts: His Opinions.
Major Jack Downing.

The Pagan Child.and other
Sketches. By Baa-r HARTB.

 

5X
52

53

80
8x
82
83

WARD, LOCK & CO., London, Melbourne, and New York. |

96

Helen's Babies. Illust.

Bessie's Slx Lovers. By
T. B. ALDRICH.

The Mississlppl PIIot. By
MARK TWAIN.
The Jericho Road.
Some other Babies
Story of 9. Honeymoon.
Hans Breitmann's Ballads
Other People's Children.
Sequel to " Helen's Babies."
Cent. perCent. BJERROLD.
That Husband of Mine.
Two Men of Sandy Bar.
By BRET l-IARTB.
Growmup Bables.
Other People.
Folks in Danbury.
My Wife's Relations.
My Mother-in-Law.

The Scripture Club of
Valley Rest. JOHN HABIIERTON.

That Girl of Mine.

Mark Twain's Nightmare.
Illustrated.

Bret Harte's Hoodlum.
Band, and other Stories. '

Bret Harte's Deadwood
Mystery.

The Tradesmen's Club.
Illustrated by MA". Smut-run.

Mrs. Mayburn's Twins.
By Author of " Helen's Babies."

The Adventures of an
Amateur Tramp. Illustrated.

Transformations. By
MAX Ant-:LHR. Illustrated.

The Drolleries of a Happy
Island. Illustrated.

Illust.
Ditto.

Mischievous Boys; or,
Aunt Saracen's Legacies.
Random Shots. By MAX
Amman. Illustrated.

An Old Fogey. By NIAX
Ant-:um. Illustrated.POPULAR NOVELS AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

 

WARD & Locx's SHILLING NOVELS.

1 Capt. Macdonald. LANG.
2 Clever Criminals. Ditto.
4Flyers ofthe Hunt. MILLS
5 The Forger's Wife. LANG.
6 LifeofaRacehorse. MILLS.
8 My Friend" 3 Wife. LANG.
9 The Secret Police. LANG.
10 Stable Secrets. MILLS.

I 1 A Story with a Vengeance
A. B. REACH and S. BROOKS.
:3 Too Clever by Hall'. LANG.

; 4Too Much Alike. Ditto.
' 16 Yankee Humour. Illust.
7Charles O'Malley. LEVER.

18 Little Ragamufl'ins. JAMES
GREBRWOOD.

9Uncle Tom's Cabin.
2): The King of the Beggars.

22 Diary of a late Physician.
SAMUEL WARREN.
23 Ten Thousand a-Year. Do.

24 Jack Hinton. C. LEVER.

25 Oonah: The Story of a.
Crime. By GEO. Fun.
26 Golden Shackles.

27 Race for a Wife. SWIM.

28 Guilty or Not Guilty?
Mrs. G. SMY'I'IIIEs.

29 A Dead Town. C. BARNARD.
3o Riven Bonds. E. WERNER.
3; Sacred Vows. Ditto.

32 An Originai Belle. ROE.
3 An Amateur Lunatic.
4Eisie Venner. HOLMES.

5 The Whiteboy. Mrs HALL

36 Down the Ravine. C. EG-
BERT Cupoocx.

37 Wheel of Life. MILLS

38 Barriers Burned Away.
E. P. Ros.

39 Opening of a Chestnut
Burr. Ditto.

40 What Can She Do? Ditto.

4r A Day of Fate. Ditto.

42 A Facelllumlned Dino.

43 He Fell in Love with His
Wife. Ditto.

44 DrivenBacktoEden. Ditto.

45 to 52 Tales of the Border.
85 Vols. Professor WILSON.

53 From Jest to Earnest ROE
54 Near to Nature' 5 Heart.

Ditto.
55 Without a Home. Ditto.

56 A Knight Ofthe 19th Cen-
tury. E. P. ROE.
57 His Sombre Rivals. Ditto.

58 Madeleine. KAVANAGH

- 59 Two Legacies BBT'I'ANY.

60 A Woman's Reputation.
0. CEAWEUED. [CAsI-IEL Hon.
6: Blossoming of an Aloe.

62 Abbot of Aberbrothock.
63 Lost and Won. Mrs. CEAIx
64 Marriage Bonds. Author

of " Hedged with Thorns."
65 Veronica. Mrs. TROLLDPE.

66 Nine of Hearts. FA'EJEON.

67 Les Miserables. HUGO.
(Also' In picture boards; 2!. )
68 Monsieur Lecoq. Com--
lete. EMILE GABORIAII.

69 T eEarthTrembied. ROE
70 Found. yet Lost. Ditto.
71 The Fair God. WALLACE.
72 Count of Monte Cristo.
73 Strange Tales. Gunman.
74 Comic Stories. BILL NYE.
75 Choice Anecdotes, &c.

76 Study ln Scarlet. DOYLE.-
77 Slaves of Paris. GABOIuAu>>

78 False Beasts hTrue. Conn
79 Digger Dick's Darling.
ELI-:2. [2. P. Roz.
80 An Unexpected Result.
8: Beulah. A. J. E. WILSON.
82 Naomi. Mrs. J. B. WEBB.
83 lnfellce. A. J. E. WILSON.

84 Mystery of Mandeville
Sq u'are SirG CimrnELL.

85 Miss Lou. E.P. ROE.

86 Arabian Nights. (32mo.)

87 Camps and Quarters.
Foams. HENTV and "'JLLIAMS.

88 St. Elmo. A. J. E WILSON.
89 Jim,the Parson. BENJAMIN.

WARD, LOCK & 00., London, Melbourne, and New York.

On.

 

97

l
l= WARD, LOCK &
SIXPEN NY NOVELfS

 

1 Titan mnrkth) can also be [ted in no! clot/i timing

ram/fins. .Muny are [Ilsa-(rated.

t'Waverley. By Sir W. Sco'r'r.
2'Kenilworth. By the Same.
3'lvanhoe. By the Same
4'The Antiquary. By the Same.
5'Paul Clifford. BULWER.
6'Last Days of Pompeii. Do.
7'Pelham. By Lyme}: BULWER.
S'Eugene Aram. By the Same.
9'Midshlpman Easy. By Capt.
NIA'RRYAT.

Io'Japhet In Search of a
Father. By Captain MAmsz'r.

It'Jacob Faithful. By the Same.

iz'Peter Simple. By the Same.

13'The Pickwick Papers. B
CHARLES DICKENS. Illustrated.

14'Nicholas Nickleby. By
CllARLE DICKENS. Illustrated.

15 Guy Mannering. Scorn

16'Valentine Vox. Cochorx.

17'Charles O'Malley. By
CHARLES LEVER. Illustrated.

18 Handy Andy. Lover. With
Illustrations.

19 Harry Lorrequer. LEVER.

20 Barnaby Rudge. DICKENS.

2: Old Curiosity Shop. Do.

22 Martin Ghuzzlewit. Do.

23 The Bride of Lammermoor.
Sir WALTER Scorn

31 Old Mortality. Scorr.

32 Mudfog Society. DICKENS.

35, 36, 37 Cerlyle's Cromwell'e
Letters and Speeches.

38 Arablan Nights' Entertain-
ments. With Illustrations.

39' Bunyan's Pllgrim'sProgress
zoo En raving: by 'I'. DALZIBL.

4o'Longfellow s PoetlcalWorke

41 Don Qulxote. With 100 Illus-

trations by T. JOHANNOT. '
43'Hood's Own. With the Original

Illusts. by the Author.
44'Shakespeare. 800 pages.

 

POPULAR SIXPENNY BOOKS.

All Merl 500k: art [fluted i'n dear, "M161: fly): and bound in attractive

Y1 57'Democracy.

Three Vols. 79

 

coxs SERIES or
& POPULAR BOOKS. .

ll.

45 Carlyle's French Revolu-
tion: The Bastile.

46 Carlyle's French Revolu-
tion: The Constitution.

47 Carlyle's French Revolu-
lion: The Guillotine.

48 Carlyle's Sartor Reeartus.

49 Carlyle's HermWorship.

50 Carlyle's Past 8L Present.

51 Helen's Bable$.J.HABBERTON

52 My Mother-ln-Law.

53 That Husband of Mine.

54 The Scripture Club of
Valley Rest. Hummer".

56 That Dreadful Boy,Trotty.

 

58'But Yet a Woman. By
ARTHUR S. HARDY.

59 The Art of Money-Getting
By P. T. BARNUM.

160 A Bad Boy's Diary.

1.61 Blundersofa Bashl'ul Man.

162 Catching a Husband.

63 Uncle Remus. Illustrated.

64 Yellowplush Papers. By W.
M. THACKERAY.

65 Mr. and Mrs. Spoopendyke.
176'Shane Fadh'e Wedding. By

WILLIAM CARLETON.

77'Larry M'Farland's Wake.
By the Same.

78'Party Fight and Funeral.
By the Same.

'The Midnight Mass. Ditto.

80'Phll Purcel, the Pig-driver.
By the Same.

81'An Irish Oath. By the Same.
82*Golng to Maynooth. Ditto.
83 PhelImO'Toole'eCourtehlp.

 

By the Same.
84 Dominick,thePoorScholar.
' By the Same.
l85 Neal Malone. By the Same.

 

WARD, LOCK & C0,, London, Melbourne, and New York.

------------_--___~

98
TIM" mark"! (') also to be Ital in next! cloth binding, In}: 18.

By A. K. GREEN.
87 The Secret Police. LANG.
88'From Log Cabin toWhlte
House: The Life of GARnnLD.
89'Llfe of General Gordon.

B
Btu. st. liinstrated. y
9: Hits and Skate. Dino.
92 A Legend of Poiecat
Hollow. Tons Hobos. Illust.
3 The innocents Abroad.
By MARK TWAIN.
94 The Heathen Chinee. By
BR21- HARTB.
95 The Bowsham Puzzle.

1 86 X. Y. Z : A DetectiveStory.
I

I 90 Boomerang Shots.

1

i

i

i

B Author of "Helen's Babies."
96 Arzemus Ward's Letters
to " Punch."
7 The Sword of Democies.
By A. K. GRssN.
98 A Strange Disappear-
ance. Dino.
99 Hand and Ring. Ditto.
we The Jumping Frog. By
MARK TWAIN. '
mi The Leavenworth Case.
By A. K. GREEN.
102 Shadowed by Three. By
L. L. LYNCH.
103 Babies and Ladders.

104 The Pagan Child. By
BRBTHARTE.

105 Bessie's Six Lovers. By
T. B. ALDRICH.

[06 Eye Openers. By MARK
TWAIN.

[07 Sensation Novels. By

BRE'I' Han-re.
108 Martyrs by Proxy. By
JAMES GREENWOOD.

109 A Queer Showman. Do.
110 The JournaiofaWoman.
By Ocnve Feuxus'r.

Ill Connubiai Bliss. Dowu'v.

 

JOHN LANG.
:13 That Girl of Mine.
"4 Poor Papa. PORTER.
us Hans Breltmenn's Bal-
lads.

 

H2 Captain Macdonald. By '
' 149 New Pilgrim's Progress.'

 

116 Hood's Wit and Humour.
117 Hood's Whime. Iiiust.
118 Hood's Oddities. Iiiust.
l 19 Artemus Ward: His Book.
no Life at the Gold Mines.

:21 Warnclifl'e, the Wan-
dcrcr.

122 A Gold-Hunter's Adven-
lures.
:23 TheHouseholdSkeleton.

124 Adventures of 5. Mid-
shipman.

I
i

125 The Brave Old Salt.

126 The Light Dragoon.

127 Gambler's Last Pledge.

:28 Bad Boy's Start in Life.

:29 Sandy Bar. BRET HARTE.

13o Cudjo's Cave. By J. T.
TROWBRIDGE.

13: The Three Scouts. Ditto.

132 Mark Twain's Night-
mare, &c. Illustrated.

133 DiaryofalatePhysician. I

134 ------ Part II. -.

135'Ten NightsinaBar-room '

x36 Thompson's Prodigal,
&c. By BRET HARTE and others;

137 Theo. By Mrs. BURNETT. l

138'The Barton Experiment. ,
HAEBERTON.

139 The Gent. A.SMITH.32mo. .

140 The Flirt. Ditto.

[41 Evening Parties. Dino.

142 Monte Cristo. Dams.

 

 

l42.~\--------- Part 2.
143 A Dead Town. lilust.
144 Oldenthorpe's Legacy.

I4; Screamer-s. MARKTWAIN.

:46 Earth to Moon. VERNE. {

x47 The English at the North
Pole. Jci.1~:sV'1-:RNE. .

145 The Fitz-Boodle Papers.-
By W. M. TIIACKIRAV'.

By MARK TWAIN. .
150 20,000 Leagues under the

Sea. By Juus VSRNx. Pt? I.
151 --- Part II.

 

 

--WARD, LOCK & (30., London, Melbourne, and New' York.

991
i
i
|

E 161

i 163
. 166

: 185 Lionel Lincoln.

154 Ten Thousand a-Year. By
S. WARREN.
155 --- Part II.
- 156 The Mississippi Pilot. By?

POPULAR SIXPENNY BOOKS. .

152 Original Readings and Re-

citations. Cultoz-Pummrrow.
153 A Christmas Carol, &c.

DICKENS. game.

 

MARK Twuu.
157 On the Track. "mm-t.
158 The Ice Desert. Ditto.
159 Practical Jokes. ByMAnK .
'l'WJIN and Ax'rmu's Wmm. .'
160 Orpheus 0. Kerr Papers.

King of the Beggars.

162 Wit and Humour. HOLMES.
163 The Soldier Lover. ABOUT.
164 Squibs and Drolleries.

Romances of Real Life.
Lmnu HUNT.

Defeated. iy H. vacn.

Workers ofthe Sea. lluuo.

Round the Moon. VERNE.

Interior of Earth. Dino.

Five Weeks in a Balloon.
Dino.

Rival Detectives. Author
of " Shadowed by Three."

The Diamond Coterie. Do.

Margaret Catch pole.

uNinety-Three." Huco.

Detective's Daughter.
Author oi " Shadowed by Three. "

177 Out ofa Labyrinth. Ditto.
17S Worth his Weight In Gold.
179 On a Winter's Night. Sir

GILBERT CAMPBELL.
183 TheSpy. FHNIMORE Com-1:11. '
184 The Pilot. Ditto.
Ditto. .
186 Last ofthe Mohicans. Do. i
187 The Prairie. Dino. ;
183 The Water-Witch. Diuo.

168
169
170
171

172

I73
I74
I75
176

 

' 159 The Pathfinder. Ditto.

190 Eve Effingham. Dino.
195 Remarkable lmpostors.
196 Celebrated Claimants.
197 Alsatian Schoolmaster.
198 Les Miserables. 1. "1:60. '
199 II. Ditto. l

 

!391 The Prln

 

Crescent and Cross.

Amusing Anecdotes. &c.

Quips and Cranks, &c.

The Detectives Dilemma. ;
By Emu: GAHORIAU.

205 Detective's Triumph. 1).).

206 History ofaCrime. llmu.

207Aln Deadly Peril. GAIzomAu

207 Mr. Barnes of New York.

201
202
203
204

.208 The Bad Boy 8' his Sister.

209 Vivian Grey.ll1;:\L\1N51=11':1.11.
210 Coningsby. him),

'211 Henrietta Temple. him.
212 Venetia. Dino.

213 Sybil. Ditto.

214 Contarini Fleming. Din-u.
215 Alroy. Dino.

216 The Young Duke. Ditto.

217 An Undiscovered Crime. 5
218 A Mountain Mystery. By
Author of ":ihmioweii by Three," '
Han of lceland. limo. i
Stormlight. _[. 15.1\lu1>noc1<. i
The Brand of Cain. Non-WM.
Under Spell. COLMACHK.
"B" Confidential. A. ll.
Pout-mm.
Mr.Skelton's Sin. DOUGLAS
"ARRlSON.
Caught in Net. GAimmAl'.
Champdoce Mystery. Do.
227 Among Cannibals. VERSE.
228 The Hand of Destiny.
229 From Shadow to Light.

Sir GlLBfiRT CAMPBELL.
230 A Mysterious Revenge.
231 Taming the Pooka.
232 The Banshee.
233 The Henpecked Giant.
234 Ingoldsby Legends. 1.
233 Arabian Nights. 1. 32mm.
236 ----- -- Il. 32mo.
237 Robinson Crusoe. 32mo.
238 John Ward, Preacher.

221
222
221
222
223

224

225
226

 

ce of the House l
of David. By INGRAHAM.

392 The Throne of David. Do.
393 The Pillar of Fire. Ditto.

 

; WARD. LOCK & C0.. LondonkMelboume, and New York?

W

 

100ADDENDA TO 3
WARD, LOOK & CO'S CATALOGU E. I}
l
l

(ADDITIONS TO SERIES.)

 

l Pm THE HOME TREASURE LIBRARY.
New VOLUMES. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 33. fill. each.
3/6 40 He Fell in Love with his Wife. By E. P. R03.
4: Driven back to Eden. By the same Author. ,
42 The Flower of the Family. By Mrs. PRENTISS. l
43 What Katy Did at Home, at School and Abroad.
1 44 Ben-Huh: A Tale of the Christ. By LEW VVMJACE.
45 The Earth Trembled. By E. P. ROE.
. 46 The Gates Between. By ELIZABETH Swam- Pumrs.
47 Miss Lou. By 1;. P. Rma.
: 48 Naomi. By Mrs. J. B. \me.
' 49 Found. yet Lost. By E. P. Ron.

 

 

THE LILY SERIES.

New VOLUMES. CrOwn Svo, cloth gilt, Is. 611. each ; wrappers, 1.9.

1/6 Barriers Burned Away. 'Mrs. Solomon Smith Look'

 

 

l/_ E. P. Roz. [$3, 9. R03, in; On. PANSV.
Opening a Chestnut Burr. The Earth Trembled. Roe.

What Can She Do 9 Do. The Gates Betweenmnsu's
A Day of Fate. Do. gFound, yet Lost. Roe.

A Face lllumined. Do. :Three People. PANSY.

He Fell in Love with his Ester Ried. Do.

Wifc- 19- P- R03. Ester Ried yet Speaking.
Driven Back to Eden. Do. lJulia Ried. PANSY.

What Katy Did NdegXt' ':The Fair God. WALLACE.
Christine 8 CrooK. HAMER. ESense & SensibilityAusn-zx

 

Ben-Hu'r'. WALLACE EPride and Prejudice. Do.
1 Four GIPIS at Chautauqua. Emma JANE Auser
PANSY. [P.xxsv. ' '

Chautauqua Girls at Home "WOW" i" the Bream
Christie's ChristmasPANsY A" Unexpected Result. ROE

Trueto the Best. A.N.Pmce Naoml. Mrs. WEBB-
Drone's Honey. LIAY. Beulah. A- J. 13- WILSON-
An Endless Chain. PANSY. Infelice. A- J- E. WILSON-
Ruth Erskine's CrossesDO, Miss Ldeg"' 13- P~ ROE.
:Links in Rebecca's Life. Do. 3'9 E'MO- A-J- E. WILSON.

 

'T'VARD, LOCK & C0,, London, Melbourne, and New York.
"" IOI4..
I

GIFT BOOKS AT THREE SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE. |

Price I THE GOOD WORTH LIBRARY. |
I New VOLUMES. Crown 8m. handsomely bound, cloth gilt, gill: edges, I
. 3s. 6d. each. '
3/6 59 Two Thrones: or, Rebellion and Loyalty. Illustrated. !
' 7 60 Great Kings and Great Preachers. Illustrated.
, 61 Great Heroes and Gallant Fights. Illustrated.
62 Memorable Events in British History. Illustrated. .
' 63 Historic Landmarks at Home and Abroad. Illust.
64 Heroes of Peace and War. l'rol'usclv Illustrated.

65 The States-General and The Country in Danger.
By ER'L'K'J \NN-CUATRIAN.

66 Year One of' the Republic and Citizen Bonaparte.
By ERc:<:.t.<<x:<-(_':;,~.Tm.\x.

67 The Golden Land. B. 1,. FAFJIZUN. Iliust. by llkou'ma.

63 Orient. lly Rev. josm'u Coon.

69 Applied Christianity. \\'.\smxo'rn.\' GLADDEN, DJ).

70 England's Pioneersand Great National Movements.
. 71 History of Rome. Ed. by 11. W. DULCKEN, Phi).

Illustrated.
' 72 History ofGreecc. l-Zd. by H. W. Downs-x, I'll.l).
Illustrated.
3 History ofthe Anglo-Saxons. By FRANCIS PALuuAl'li.
4 True Royalty: Life of the Queen. lly Dr. J. W.
'. Klk'l'nfc. l'mf'usdv llllbl'UJL'll.
75 Beeton's Housekeeper's Guide. Hundreds of Engra-
vmgs.
76 Beeton's Ladies' Own Book. With 260 Illustrations. I
7 Beeton's Bazaar and Fancy Fair Book. 304 Illnsis. '
78 Beeton's Book of Fancy Needlework. 43o lllusts. .
79 The Crescent &The Cross. ELIOT \'VARIiUR'l'ON. Illusl. '
. 80 History of France. By Emma m: BUNNHCHOSE. l'ro-
' fuscly Illustrated.
81 Four Girls at Chautauqua. By " PANsY."
82 The Chautauqua Girls at Home. By " ansv."
83 Christie's Christmas. By "l'ANSY."
. 84 From Different Standpoints. " PANSY."
l 85 True to the Best. By ANNIE N. PRICE.
. 86 Forster's Life of Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated.
87 An Endless Chain. By "PAISSY."
. 88 Ruth Erskine's Crosses. By " I'Axsv."
89 Links in Rebecca's Life. 15y " YANSY."
90 Mrs. Solomon Smith Looking On. lly "PANSY."
91 Celebrated Authors and Famous Thinkers.
92 Heroes and Workers ofthe Victorian Era.
93 Abbott's Life of Napoleon Bonaparte.
96 History of England. H. W. DUchI-zx, PhD. Illusl.
7 Reincarnation: A Study of Forgotten Truth. \VALKER.
98 Wonderful Inventions, and Discoveries in Heat,
Light and Sound. Profuscly Illustrated.
99 Wonders of Rocks, Animals and Plants. Illustrated.

 

 

 

 

 

t.._.. _.

WARD, LOCK & C0,, London, Melbourne, and New York.

{05o...

i GIFT BOOKS AT THREE SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
._.._________--___________

Price ' THE Goon WORTH LIBRARY--continued.

3/6 l 100 Wonders of Electricity and Magnetism. Illustrated.
5 101 Wonders of the Earth and the Heavens. Illust.
l 102. Great Thinkers and Brilliant Speakers. illust.
| 103 Great Writer's: England's Essayists and Novelisls. I
! x04 Lamps of History: lees of Gibbon, Grate, Macaulay. '
l Motley and Carlyle. Illustrated.
lo; Three People. By " I'Axsr." I
106 Ester Ried. By " PANSY."
' 107 Ester Ried yet Speaking. By " PANsY."
108 Julia Ried. By " Passv."
10-) Little Susy. By Mrs. E. PRENTESS. '
no Real Greatness. By Dr. J. W. KIRTON.
m The Fair God. By Law WALLACE.
1:2 Beulah. By AUGUs'm J. EVANS WILSON.
n3 lnfelice. By AUGUSTA J. EVANS WiLsox.

FlVE-SHILLlNG GIFT BOOKS.

, wa VoLuuzs.--Crown Svo, handsomely bound, cloth gill, bevelled

' 1 gilt edges, 5.9. each.

i 5/ i 15 Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. With Memoir of the

: _ F Author and full-page Illustrations by DALZIEL

16 A Popular History of Rome. By D. Rosa. Ed. by
H. W. DULCKKN. I'hJ). Profuscly Illustrated.

17 A Popular History of Greece. By D. Rose. Ed. by
H. W. DULCKEN. PhD. Prol'usely Illustrated.

18 True Royalty : A Lift: of Queen Victoria. By Dr. J W.
Km'rou, Author of " True Nobility." Profusely Illustramd. e

19 A Popular History of France. Condensed and Con- '

tinned from the celebrated work of Bonxxcuosz. Proms-fly
llluslraicd.

20 Forster's Life and Times of Ollver Goldsmith.
Wirb Illustrations by MAcuss. STANSFIELD and others.

21 A Popular History of England. By H. W. DULCKEN,
Ph.D. Profusclylllusarated.

THE ROYAL LIBRARY

! OP CHOICE Booxs or FAMOUS AUTHORS.

i New \'ox.iv.\ms.---Crown Bro. red club. gilt bevelled. red edges, 29.
' each. (These marked ' also in halfoclolh, m lrbled sides, a: same price).
2/-- . The Tiger Slayer. Amman. ' 'Vivlen Grey. BEAcossnrsu).
i Last of the Incas. Dino. . 'Comngsby. Dino.
PiratesofthePrairieniuo ' 'Henrietta. Templemuo.

 

Prairie Flower. Dino. 'Venetla. Ditto.
Trapper's Daughter. Dino. 'Sybll- Dino.
Indian Chief. Ditto. Fleming. Bucoxsrmw.

 

in Deadly Peril. G,\30R1Au. 'Young Duke. Dino.

The Crescent and the The Count of Monte
CPOSS. ELIOT WARBUR'I'ON. Crista. Complete. DUMASL ~

I WARD, LOCK & (20., London, Melbourne, and New York.

3
White Scalper. Dim" 'Alroy, and Contarini'

 

 

103

-. v-! cmr BOOKS AT HALF-A-CROWN.

THE FAMILY GIFT SERIES.

Nuw \'nLu1ut-:s.--Crown 8vo, cloth gilt. 23. 61!. each. _
| 2/6 102 The illustrious Heroes ofthe Bible. Edited by Dr.

' ,l. W. KmroN.
l 103 Robinson Crusoe. Demy 8vo. With Memoir and
Illustranons.

I I . . .
g I 10.; True Noblltty: Mcmou of Lord Shaftesbury. By Dr.
J. W. KIRTON. Prolusely Illustrated.
| 105 ice-World Adventures. Illustrated.

107 Driven Back to Eden. By 15. P. Roz. Illustrated.
108 Two Thrones; or, Rebellion and Loyalty. Illustrated.
109 Great Kings and Great Preachers. Illustrated.

- no Great Heroes and Gallant Fights. Illustrated.
111 The Fairy Queen's Visit. Illustrated.
112 irene. the Little Christian. Illustrated.
115 Stories of Animals and Pets. Illustrated.
114 Memorable Events in British History. Illustrated.
11; Historic Landmarks at Home and Abroad. Illust.
11f>> Heroes of Peace and War. Illustrated.

' 117 Moral Nursery Tales. Illustrated.

. 118 Nursery Songs and Ballads. Illustrated.

= 119 Nursery Tales and Stories. Illustrated.

1.:0 Chats about Animals and Birds. By Mme": SUN-

. SHINE. llllxslrzithl.

i 121 The Sunny Holldays. By MERCIE Suxsumn. Iilust.

1'23 The States-General and Country in Danger.

- ERCKMAuN-CHATRIAN. Illustrated. _ .

123 Year One of Republic and Citizen Bonaparte.
EirCKMANN-CHATMAN. Illustrated.

. 12.1 The Good Shepherd. Illustrated.
' : 125 The Sunday Treasure Book. Illustrated.

 

 

l'rtce

 

'126 England's Pioneers and Great National Move~
l menu. I'rol'usely Illustrated.
127 Popular History of Rome. By D. Rose. Ed. by
l H. W. DULCKEN, PILD. Profuscly Illustrated.
128 Popular History of Greece. By D. Rose. Ed. by
, - H. \V. Hum-KEN, PILD. Profusciy Illustrated.
= 129 HistoryoftheAnglo-Saxons. Byl'kANCIS PALGRAVE. 1
130 True Royalty: Life of the Queen. By Dr. J. W. '
KIRTON. Profusely Illustrated.
131 Beeton's Book of Birds. Coloured Illustrations.
132 Beeton's Book of Poultry. Coloured Illustrations.
133 The Crescent and the Cross. ByEuor \VARBURTON.

134 Popular History of France. BoxNecuose. Con-
I densed and Continued by H. W. DULCKEN. Ph.D. Illustrated.
' 135 Abbott's Life of Napoleon Bonaparte. Illustrated.
136 The Tiger-Slayer. By Gusruve AIMARD. Illustrated.
l 137 Last of the lncas. By GUSTAVE Arr-mun. Illustrated.
\ 138 Pirates of the Prairies. By Gus'mve Amman. Iliust.
' | 139 The Prairie Flower. GUSTAVE AIMARD. Illustrated.

{ WARD, LOCK & co., London, Melbourne, and New York. ,
. m4GIFT BOOKS AT 25. 6d.

 

Price

2/6

 

.Mrs. Solomon Smith

:17":

-. 1 Darwin's Journal during 8. Voyage in the n Beagle."

 

THE FAMILY GIFT SERIFs--mzlimml.
140 The Trapper's Daughter. (}U>'1',\\-'Iz Amman. Illust.
141 The White SCaIDeY'. (JUSI'AVE Ammo. Illustrated.
142 The Indian Chief. GUSTAVF. Ammo. Illustrmed.
143 Forster-'3 Life of Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated.
144 Celebrated Authors and Famous Thinkers. Illust.
:45 Heroes and Workers of the Victorian Era. Illust.
146 The Earth Trembled. By E. P. R02.
147 The Pickwick Papers. DICKENS. Illustrated.
148 Nicholas Nickleby. DXCKENS. Illustrated.
149 History of England. H. W. DULCKEN, Ph.D. Illust.
150 Treasures of Truth for Busy Lives. Portraits.
151 Wonderful Inventions, and Discoveries in Heat,

Light and Sound. mounted.

152 Wonders of Rocks. Animals and Plants. Illuslmted.
153 Wonders of Electricity and Magnetism. Illust.
154 Wonders of the Earth and the Heavens. Illust.
155 Great Thinkers and Brilliant Speakers. Illustrated.
156 Great Writer's: Novelists and Essayists. Illustrated.

157 Lamps of History: Grote, Gibbon, Macaulay, Motley,
Carlyle. Illustrated.

158 Miss Edgeworth's Moral Tales.
159 Miss Edgeworth's Popular Tales.
160 Irish Wonders. By D. R. h-chxAIu'. Illuslmlcd.

161 Real Greatness. By Dr. J. W. KIRTON. Author of
" Bu Your Own Cherries." Illustrated. (Also at 28-)
162 The air God. 13v erw WALLACE.

250 Beckonings for Every Day. (Cloth or roan.)

THE YOUNG" LADIES' LIBRARY.

Frontispieces and Vigneuc TiIlcs. Svo, cloth gilt. gill edges, .93. 641. each
FourGirlsat Chautauqua Ruth Erskine's Crosses

 

By lesv. .By I'Ausy. [By I'ANsv
The Chautauqua Girls at LInks in Rebecca's Life

I~Iogne._ lly Pin-5y. Three People. By l'msv.
Ch rIstIe s Ch rustmas. Do. Ester Ried. Do.
From Dnfi'erent Stand- Ester Ried yet Speaking.

points. By PANSY. ' i . .-. ' .
True to the Best. PRICE. aflefif'egy 131335,P\SS?SSJn,

An EndlessCha'm. Pmsv. Beulah. A. J. E.Wu.so.~1.

lnfelice. Ditto.
St. Elmo. Ditto.

THE MINERVA LIBRARY OF
FAMOUS BOOKS.

Edited by G. T. Brz'r'nmv. M.A.:wi1h Critical or Biographical Introduc-
tions and Illustrations. Crown 8w. cloth gilt, 28. each.

Looking on. By PANSY.

2 The lngoldsby Legends. | 3 Borrow's Bible in Spain.

105

|
l

l

WARD, LOCK & '30., London, Melbourne, and New York.'. . . . ,_
STANDARD WORKS AND USEFUL HANDBOOKS.

W

Price THE PEOPLE'S STANDARD LIBRARY.

' New VOLUMES. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, or plain buckram, with label,
: 28. each. (Those marked * also at same price in half-cl 0th, marbled sides.)

2/- l' 35 Goethe's Faust. Trans. by BAYARD TAYLOR.
1' 36 Mrs. Browning's Poems. 1826-44. Ed. by INGRAM
1 ' 37 Home & School Shakespeare. lid. by Bowman.
I
|

' ' 38 Praed's Political Poems. Edited by Sir G. Your-o.
' 99 Coleridge's Aids to Reflection.
. 'xoo Coleridge's Dramatic Works.
'tOt The Essays of Elia. CHARLES LAMB.
- 'Ioz Eiiana. CHARLES LAMB.
'103 Thomas a Kempis. Introduction, &c., by Dr. CHAL-
MERS. Also in half-persian, 3s. 6d.

104 History of Rome. By D. Rosa. Edited by 11. W.
- I Dvchns, Ph.D. Profusely Illustrated.
I '105 History ofGreece. By D. Rose. Edited by 11. W.
: DULCKEN._Ph.D. Profuselv Illustrated.
'106 Palgrave s History of the Anglo-Saxons.

*-

'xo7 Abbott's Life of Napoleon Bonaparte.
108 Hallam's Church and State.

*109 Gibbon's Roman Empire. With Dmx MILMM'S
Invaluable Notes. Also Notes bmezor and others. 4 Vols.
'no History of France. Boxxecnose. Illustrated.

111 Forster's Life of Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated.

'nz History of England. II. W. DULCKEN. Ph.D. l'ro-
fusely Illustrated.

*u3 Letters of' Rev. Robert Hall.

":14 Sermons, Charges and Reviews. Rev. R. HALL.
3 'us On Communion and Baptism. Ditto.

' '116 Miscellaneous Writings of Rev. Robert Hall.

' *117 Notes of Sermons. By Rev. Roman? HALL.

, '118 Sermons and Miscellaneous Pieces. Ditto.

, '119 Carlyle's French Revolution. (Half-clo'lt only.)

~ '120 Carlyle's Sartor Resartus, Past and Present and
i Hero Worship. (Ditto)

'12! Carlyle's Cromwell's Letters and Speeches. Ditto.

. BEETON'S EVERYtDAY--HANDBOOKS.

. New Von: mas. Crown Bvo, cloth gilt. 33. (M. each.
3/6 i 4 Beeton's Complete Elocutionist and Public Speaker.
3

5 Beeton's Field, Farm and Garden. Illustrated.

6 Beeton's Farmer's Own Book. With 210 Illusls.

7 Beeton's Housekeeper's Guide. Illustrated. .
8 Beeton's Ladies' Own Book of Work, Etiquette and '

Amusement. With about 26deg Illustrations.
9 Beeton's Bazaar and Fancy Fair Book. How to
Manage a Bazaar, and Make Hundreds of Articles. 350 Illusts.
to Beeton's Ladies' Handbook of Fancy Needlework.
With 430 Illustrations.

u The People's Own Law Book. Also in boards, 2:. 6d.

0
l

 

 

WARD, LOCK & CO., London, Melbourne, and New York. !
F." 105CHEAP EDITIONS OF STANDARD WORKS.

 

Price

THE WORLD LIBRARY OF STANDARD BOOKS.

Crown 8vo, neat cloth gilt, or plain buckrani, 30. 8d. each.

3/6 49 The Life of Napoleon Bonaparte. By 1.5. C. Anne-rt.

5deg Gibbon's Roman Empire. With the Valuable and

Copious Notes of thelaie Dean MILMAN, also Notes by Gumm-
end Others. Vol. I.

! 51 ------- Vol. II.

52 Popular History of France. Condensed and continued

from the Celebrated Work of Bonxacuosa, by H. W. Duuzxau,
Ph.D. Profusely llluslrared.

53 Forster's Life and Times of Oliver Goldsmith. Illus-
trated by Macusa, STANFIELD and others.

54 Popular History of England. By H. W. DULCKEN,
Ph.D. Profuseiy Illustrated.

55 Robert Hall's Letters and Sermons.
56 - ----- Miscellaneous Writings.
57 Sermons and Miscellaneous Pieces.

 

 

 

WARD AND LOCK'S

POPULAR LIBRARY of LITERARY TREASURES

6 1 Crown avo, bound in near cloth. 6d. each; or in paper wrappers, (M.
L -.

1 Emerson's Representative MemEngllsh Traits, &c.
' 3d. 2 Macaulay's Lord Clive, Warren Hastings, &c.
3 Plutarch's Lives of Alexander, Oasar, &c.
4 Locke's Thoughts on Education.
5 De Qulnoey's Confessions of an Opium-Eater, &c.
, 6 Longfellow's Tales of a Wayside Inn, &c.
l 7 Slndbad the Sailor, Aladdin, &c.
8 Lord Bacon's Essays.
9 Oliver Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
to Captain Cook's First Voyage to Australia, &c.
u Foster's Decision of Character.
12 Milton's Miscellaneous Poems.
i3 Plutarch's Lives of Famous Greeks.
i4 Gobbett's Advice to Young Men.
15 The Witches' Frolic, and other Ingoldsby Legends.
:6 Coleridge's Ancient Mariner, and. other Poems.
r7 The Little Hunchback and The Forty Thieves.
r8 Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome, &c.
:9 Emerson's Love. Friendship and Character.
20 Thomas a Kempis: The Imitation of Christ.
21 The Smuggler's Leap, and other Ingoldsby Legends.
22 Goethe's Faust. Bun!) TAYLOR. Part I.
23 Emerson's Conduct of Life. &c.

24 Captain Cook's Voyage to Australia and New
Zealand. '

 

WARD, LOCK & CO., London, Melbourne, and New York.

.___._.------------------------------------'

x07l GIFT BOOKS AT EIGHTEENPENCE.
THE YOUTH'S LIBRARY.

New Vow." 1-25. Crown Svo, cloth gilt. 13. 6d.; wrapper, 18.
6.; Life of W. E. Gladstone. By G. R. EMERSON.
1,56 65 Fifty Famous Women. Wiih Portraits.
1.v'_ '66 Children at Jerusalem. Mrs. HOLMAN HUNT.

" 67 Bible Heroes. Edited by Dr. J. W. KIR'I'ON.

68 First Heroes of the Cross. lid. by Dr. J. W. KIR'I'ON.
, 69 Thrilling Adventures in the Arctic Regions. Illust.
. 3 70 In Search of Franklin. Illustrated.

71 The Sailor Hero. By Captain ARMSTRONG.

72 TheHistoryoftheAngIo-Saxons. FRANCIS PA'LGRAVE.
73 True Royalty: Life of the Queen. Illustrated. Knu'ox.
74 The Marvels of the Elements. Profusely Illustrated.

: 75 Marvels of Heat, Light and Sound. Prolusely Illusl. .
I 76 Marvels oflnvcntion and Scientific Puzzles. Illust.
77 Marvels of Earth, Air and Water. Illustrated.

. 7' The Tiger Slayer. By UCSTAV'E AIMARI).

. 79 The Last. of the lncas. By GUSTAV]: AIMARD.

8 Pirates of the Prairie. By Gum-AVE Amman.

$1 The Prairie Flower. By GUS'I'AV'E Ammo.

82 The Trapper's Daughter. By Gusmvn AIMARD.

I 83 The White Scalper. By GUSTAV}: Ammo.

' 84 The Indian Chief. By GUSTAVE Ammo.

85 Hunting Adventures. By " Tm: 01.1) SIIEKARRY."
86 The Hero of the Prairies. Illustrated.

87 Marvels of Geology and Physical Geography. Illust.
88 Marvels of Animal and Plant Life. Illustrated.

89 Marvels of Electricity and Magnetism. Illustrated.

90 Marvels of Astronomy. .T'x'ol'usely Illustrated.

91 Masters in History. By Rev. Pmex ANTOX.

92 Great Novelists. By JAMES C. \VATT.

93 Life of Thomas Carlyle. By 11.]. NICOLL.

94 England's Essayists. By Rev. PETER ANTON.

' 95 Brilliant Speakers. By H. J. NICOLL.

' 96 Great Scholars. Ble. J. NICOLL.

97 Lamb's Tales from Shakespeare.

' ' MOXON'S MINIATURE SERIES.
Pocket size. neatly buund in half red cloth, Is. each.

Keble's Christian Year. Holmes' Poems.
1!- Beautiful Snow and olhel' Biglow Papers. LOWELL.

' l'ncms. (itlm'agiiz'; Back-Log Studies.
. The Gent. Ami-RT Sm-m. \VARNER.
The Flirt. Amnm' Snu'u. Poems. By J. G. SAXE.
. Evening Parties. Dino. Mariorie Daw. ALDRICH.
' Southey's Life or" Nelson. Pagan Child, Sic. I'IAR'I'E.
Hood's Wit and Humour. Two Men of Sandy Bar.
Hood's Whims. HansBreitmann'sB-allads.
Hood's Oddities. ', ThatDreadfuIBoy,Trotty,

...._._________.___.___'_________.._----------------

WARD, LOCK & CO.. London, Melbourne, and New York.

_________.-----------
, __ 108 ..

 

, Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

Q~v--.vw

 

GIFT BOOKS AT POPULAR PRICES.

9"" NEW TWO-SHILLING CLOTH-BOUND SERIES.

Crown 8vo, neat cloth, 2:. each.
2/- x The Earth Trembled. By E. P. Roe.
' 2 The Gates Between. By ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS.

3 Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ. By Law \VALLACE.
4 The Fair God. By the same author.
5 Story of Keedon Bluffs. By C. Essen-r CRADDOCK.
6 Miss Lou. By E. P. Ron.
7 Found. yet Lost. By E. P. Ron.
8 Digger Dick's Darling. By Mrs. A. Ban.
9 In Ole Virginia. By T. NELSON PAGE.
20 The Gates Between. By E. STUART PHELPS.

 

 

Crown 8vo, strongly and neatly bound in cloth, 1:. each.

I
I
!

1 Four Girls at Chautauqua. By " PANSY." l

2 The Chautauqua Girls at Home. By " PANSY." |

3 Christie's Christmas. By " PANSY." l

4 From Different standpo nts. By "PANsY."

6 An Endless Chain. By "PANSY." -- .

7 Ruth Erskine's Crosses. By " PANSY.'

8 Links In Rebecca's Life. By "PANsY."

9 Mrs. Solomon Smith Looking On. By "PANSY." ,

10 Three People. By " PANSY."

u Ester Ried. By "PANSY." '

12 Ester Rled yet Speaking. By "PANSY."

:3 Julia Rled. By " PANSY."

Uniform with the abort:

51 True to the Best. By ANNIE N. PRICE.
52 Ben--Hur. By Law WALLACE.
53 Naomi. By Mrs. J. B. WEBB.
54 Beulah. By AUGUSTA J. EVANS WILSON.
5 lnfelice. By AUGUSTA J. EVANS WILSON.
56 John Ward, Preacher. By MARGARET DELAND...
57 St. Elmo. By AUGUSTA J'. EVANS WiLSON.

THE "PANSY" BOOKS.
1/-

 

NEW EDUCATIONAL SERlES.

Crown 8vo. neat cloth, 2.9. each.

2,'_ r Leesoneln French Grammar and Pronunciation.
By 1111.35 A. L. KUNZ.
2 Astronomy. By E. NEISON, F.R.A.S., Her Majesty's
Astronomer for Na-al.
3 Self-Instruction in German. H. W. DULCKEN, Ph.D.

4 English Grammar. By L. TOULMIN Snmr. 1:.

l WARD, LOCK & 60., London, Melbourne, and New York.
~Ideg9

 

*JI CHEAP BOOKS FOR THE PEOPLE.
m. PENNY U MFUL AND EDUCATIONAL BOOKS.

1d. New issues.

40 First Book of English 43 How to Dance.
1 "is"? 44. How to W00.
1 First ranch Book.
3 22 Christian Names, 45 How tdeg 39'1""-
. Meanings, &c. 46 How to Travel.

5 KIRTON'S PENNY Racn-ns AND Mucous--New Issues.

89 Pat's Receipt, &c.--90 The Blame Stone, &c.--9x Paddy'e
L Dream, &C~-92 Taken in, &c.--93 The lr eh Duel. Gun--94 A Queer
Fleh, &c.-95 Paddy end the Fox. ac..96 The lrleh Seoooimaeter.
ace--97 The Gridiron, &c.--98 Andy'e Blunders, &c.--%9' The Excise-
7 man, ac. --xoo Father Phii'e Collection, ace--23deg M other'e Bible.
&c.--x3x Whlte Lin. Sun-132 The Two Reade, c.--x33 All have
3 Work to Do. Gee--134 The Blind Boy, &c.--r3s God Ie Everywhere.

 

 

Etc--1&6 We are Seven. ace--x 31 Beer and Forbear, Rte--:38 A True
Man, c.-- :39 My Mother, &c.--no The Storm, &c.--r4x Our Baby's
Prayer, Gun--:42 God'e World and Men's, &c.~--x43 Sailor Boy'e Fare-
well, &c.----xu The Life Boat. &c.--us The One-Hoes Shay, &c.---u6
York-hire Angling, 815--141 The Fakenhem Ghost, arm--:48 The
Twine, &c.-- 149 The Irleh Sohooimeeter, Ste--:50 The Beehfui Men.
&c.-xsx The Bachelor Bold, &c.---xsa Awomen of Mind. Gun--:53 The
1! Family Man. kc.--xsq, A Ghoet Story, arm--:55 The Tithe Pig. 6w.--
156 John Trot, &c.---xSS7 The Bachelor's Dream. &c.-158 Stage-
Struck Hero. &c.--x59 The Spectre Pig, &c.--160 Nothing to Wear.
l 1 ac.- :6: Jerry. the Miller. &c.---r62 A Roland for en Oliver, &C.---16;
The Uncle, &C.--16' Grace Darling, &c.--x65 The Maniac. new-166
. 3 Gone with a Handeomer Man, I'm--167 The Warrior's Dream, &c.---
:68 A Baehful Men, &c.-x69 Aurella'e Young [Men, &c.--r1o A
Baehelor'e Complaint. &c.--x1x The Amateur Coachman, ace-x7:
'1 Teli'e Speech, ace-:73 Uncle Sammy, &c.--x74 Love and Lucre, &c.

HISTORICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL SERIES.

Large crown 8vo. in attractive wrappers, with numerous

Engraving), 2d. each.
2d. x Gladstone: Orator and | 7 The Vengeance of '89.
Statesman. Sand Statesman. 8 The Great Reform 3|".
2 Beaconsfie d: Author

8 ur eon: The Pastor of 9 The Elizabethan Age.
3 fire BEwopolilanTabei-nacle. 10 From the Black Hole

4 Martin Luther. to Piassey.
5 Shefteebury: TheTrue u " Long Live the Beg-
Nobieuu. and. ars."

6 Victoria: Queenol ng- 12 T ePennyNewspaper.

THREEPENNY SERIES OF POPULAR BOOKS.

In attractive picture covers. 3d. each.

3d. 1 Much Like Murder. By 6 Chuckles. Ditto.

Jules Gnunwoon. 7 My Amusing Mule. Do.
2 Crawford's Guilt. Do. 8 LinkeofLaughter. Do.
3 Romenceln the Rough. 9 Eccentricltles of the
Ditto. Winv end Wise.
4 A Tale of a Breach 0' IO Oddities&Cur-ioeltlee.
wProtmiae. Vlailueo. " u Quaint; Bite, Anec-
ee ern . doles. c.
5 Nu." By 3"" :2 Odds and Ends.

 

WARD, LOCK & (30.. London. Melbourne, and New York.
"0