THE LIFE
AND
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
024
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
BY DANIEL DE FOE.
W'AKEFIELD:
WILLIAM NICHOLSON AND sons.
Lennon: 5. D. Ewms & 00., 22, Pumosmn Row.
VC’b'
V~-J
1
x,
A‘
\l
i.
f
n
1;
‘i'
K
J
‘
‘.‘_J
\ I
are.) '1'?”
r A I \
.:~K"~ 1*
I'lv
,0.»
LI
2’13 * ‘
1734':
./ ‘3" if, M
THE LIFE OF DANIEL DE FOE. -
THE author of Robinson Crusoe was Daniel Foe, which,
from caprice, or other motive, he lengthened with a pre-
V~-J
born in the year 1660, of humble parentage. His father,
V~-J
engaged in trade: from the business of a hosier he passed
to that of a pantile maker, without success. From want
of prudence, or dislike to his occupations the only reward
of his schemes was embarrassment and distress.
In the speculations of the literary world he was more
fortunate. In 1701, when Kiug William, during the vio~
lence of parties was censured for his attachment to, and
employment of foreigners, De Foe espoused the cause of
his monarch, and ridiculed his enemies in a satirical
poem, called “ The True-born Englishman.” This pro-
duction was honoured with an enormous sale: and he was
encouraged to write another satire, entitled, “ Reforma-
tion of Manners," in which he attacked the vices of some
persons of eminent rank.
A pamphlet, called “ The Shortest Way with the Dis-
senters,” was so mistaken, or so misrepresented, that it
was declared by the House of Commons to be of a libel-
lous nature. De Foe, for his offence, was subjected to
V~-J
give his enemies much reason to exult over his despond-
ence ; for the subject which he took to amuse his prison
hours, was “A Hymn to the P-illory.” During his con-
V~-J
work of considerable importance in the republic of learn-
ing, if, as has been imagined, it suggested the idea of the
Tattlcr and Spectator, which have enriched our language
with essays of incomparable beauty.
De Foe was employed in promoting the union of Eng-
land and Scotland, of which event he also wrote the his—
tory. Whatever glory he gained from interfering in the
bitter differences of politics, he gained little solid satis-
faction. A second imprisonment, which he suffered,
taught him the fate which he was to expect from the
animosity of political opponents. He began to take a
more quiet and useful path of literature in 1715, and pub-
lished a religious work, called “ The Family Instructer.”
Of his many other productions we may notice “ The Hie-
vi. LIFE or DANIEL us For.
tory of the Plague in 1665 ;" a novel, entitled, “ The
History of Colmicl Jark,"—“A new Voyage round "16
World, by a Comp/m 1/ of Merchants,"—“ The History of
R0.mna,”—“ The Memoirs of a Carrrh‘er,"-—“ The II istory
of Moll Flanders," and a book, entitled “ Religious Court-
ship,” which has passed through many editions.
vi. LIFE or DANIEL us For.
son Cmsoe,” a work which almost every one has read in
his childhood, and the pleasing impressions of which are
scarcely obliterated from the memory in old age. Its
simple and perspicuous style is admirably suited to the
capacity of youth ; it possesses enough of the marvellous
to delight the imagination ; and the sentiments which it
inspires are such as need not be renounced or corrected
in mature age. Respecting this work there is a story
which it is incumbent to relate, although it has never
been fairly authenticated. It has been affirmed, (says
the Encyclopedia Brita n n ica, ) that when Captain Woodes
Rogers touched at the islandjof Juan Fernandez, in the
South Sea, he brought away Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch
scaman, who, having been left ashore there, had lived
upon the island in desolate solitude for the space of four
ears. When Selkirk returned to England, it is said, that
e wrote a narrative of his adventures, and put the papers
in the hands of De Foe, to digest for publication ; but that
he ungenerously converted the materials into the cele-
brated “ History of Robinson Crusoe." Part of this story
may be true, and part false. That De Foe might have had
the inspection of Selkirk's Journal is very possible; and by
his owers of description, and skill in composition, he
mig t have expanded into an entertaining narrative, what
in its original form was a dull and awkward composition.
But that he was guilty of any fraud or injustice towards
Selkirk, is a suspicion which his character of general in-
tegrity should induce us to reject. As there is no credible
roof against him, we are bound to give him an acquittal,
0th because he is not able to vindicate himself, and one
who has so entertained the rising generation, has more
than an ordinary right not to be condemned upon doubt-
ful accusation.
Daniel De Foe died at Islington in the year 1781. His
daughter was respectably settled in' life, by marrying
Henry Baker, an eminent naturalist.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
_
WAS born in the car 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, tlZough not of that countr , my
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise, and,
leaving 06" his trade, lived afterwards at York; from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations
Were named Robinson, a very good family in that
country, and from whom I was called Robinson
Jfl'eutznner ; but, by the usual corruption of words,
we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, Crusoe ;
and so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers: one of whom was lieu-
tenant- colonel to an English regiment of foot in
Flanders, formerly commanded b the famous Colonel
Lockhart, and was killed at the attle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of my second
brother I never knew, any more than my father or
mother did know what became of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
rambling thoughts. My father had given me a com—
etent share of learning, and designed me for the
aw; but nothing would suit me but going to sea;
and m inclination to this led me so strongly against
the w' and the commands of my father, and against
all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother and
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in
that propension of nature, tending directly to that
life of misery which was to befal me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against my design. He called
me one morning into his chamber, where he was
8 ROBINSON causes.
8 ROBINSON causes.
with me upon the subject. He asked me what reasons,
more than a mere wandering inclination, I had for
leaving my father’s house, and my native country;
where I had a prospect of raising my fortune by ap-
plication and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure.
e said it was men of desperate fortunes who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings out of the
common road; that these things were either too far
above me, or too far below me; and that mine was
the middle state, or the upper station of low life,
which he had found, by long experience, was the best
state, the most suited to human happiness, not ex-
posed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and
sufferings, of the mechanical part of mankind, and
not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition,
and envy of the upper classes. He told me I might
judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing,
viz. that it was the life which all other people envied;
that kings have often lamented the miserable conse-
quences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been plnced in the middle of the two ex-
tremes, between the mean and the great; that the
Wise Man gave his testimony to this, as the just stan-
dard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither
poverty nor riches.
He bade me observe that the calamities of life were
shared among the upper and lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station had the fewest disasters,
and unexposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or
lower part of mankind; they were not subjected to
so much bodily and mental ain, as those were, who,
by luxurious living, on one and, or by hard labour,
scarce and mean diet on the other hand, bring dis-
8 ROBINSON causes.
of living; that the middle station was promotive of
virtue, and enjoyment; that peace and plenty were

the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, health, society, all agreeable diversion!
and pleasures, were the blessings peculiar to the mid-
dle station of life; that this way men went silently
and smoothly through the world, and comfortably out
of it ; not enraged with the passion of envy, or the
secret lust of ambition for great things, but in easy
circumstances sliding gently through the world, and
gensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the
itters. ‘
ROBINSON causes. 9
tionately, not to play the young man, nor to precipi-
tate myself into miseries, which my station of life
seemed to have provided against; that I was under
no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would
enter me fairly into the station of life which he had
just recommended; and that if I was not happy in
the world, it must be my fate, or fault, that must hin-
der it; and that he should have nothing to answer
for, having discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which would be to my hurt. And, that as
he would do very kind things for me, if I would settle
at home, so he would have no part in my misfortunes,
as to give me encouragement to go away. He said
I had an elder brother for an example, to whom he
had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him
from going into the Low Country wars, but could not
prevail, his desires tprorgnting him to enter the army,
where he was kille . e said'he would not cease to
pray for me ; but if I did take that foolish step God
would not bless me; and hereafter I should regret
having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though my father did not know
it to be so ; I observed the tears copiously to run down
his face, especially when he spoke of my brother who
was killed; and when he spoke of my after-regret,
10 nosmsos cannon.
and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke
off the discourse, and his heart was so full he could
as no more to me.
was much ati'ected with this discourse, and I re-
solved not to think of going abroad, but to settle at
home according to my father's desire. But alas! a
few da s wore it all off; and to prevent any more of
In father’s importunities, in a few wet-ks after I re-
so ved to run away from him. However, I did not
act quite so hastily; but I took my mother at a time
when she was in a pleasant mood, and told her, that,
my thoughts were so bent upon seeing the world, that
I should never settle to any thing with resolution
enough to go through with it; and my father had
better give his consent, than force me to go without
it; that I was eighteen years old, which was too late
to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to any attorney,
that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my
time, but should run away from in master before in
time was out, and go to sea; and ' she would spea
to my father to let me go one voy e abroad, if I
came home again and did not like mag would go no
more, and I would promise by a double diligence to
recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion. She
told me, she knew it was of no use to speak to my fa-
ther on such a subject; that he knew well what was
my interest, to consent to any thing so much for my
hurt; and that she wondered how I could think of
it, after the discourse I had had with my father, and
such kind and tender expressions, as she knew my
father had used to me: and that if I would ruin my-
self there was no help for me; that I should never
have their consent to it; that she would have no
hand in my destruction, and I should never have it
to say, that my mother was willing when my father
was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the dis-
course to him; and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh, “ That
the boy might be happy, if he would stay at home;
but if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable
wretch that ever was born: I cannot consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the meantime I was deaf to all pro-
posals of settling to business, and frequently expos-
tulating with my father and mother for opposing my
inclination. But being one da at Hull, and one of
my companions being going y sea to London, in
his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them,
with the common allurement of a sea-faring man,
that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I con-
sulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so
much as sent them word of it, but leaving them to
hear of it as they might, without asking God’s bles-
sing, or my father’s, and in an ill hour, God knows,
ROBINSON onuson. 11
ship bound for London. Never any young adven-
turer’s misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or con-
tinued longer, than mine. The ship was no sooner
got out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow,
and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and,
as I had never seen the sea before, I was most in-
ROBINSON onuson. 11
ROBINSON onuson. 11
and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
heaven, for wickedly leaving my father’s house, and
abandoning my duty. All the good counsel of my
parents, my father’s tears, and my mother’s entrea-
ties, came new fresh into my mind, and my conscience,
which was not hardened as it has been since, re-
proached me with the contempt of advice, and the
reach of my duty to God and my father.
The storm increased, and the sea went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
12 aonnuon causes.
since, nor what I saw a few days after. But it was
enough to affect me then, who was but a young sai-
lor, and had never seen the sea before. I expected
every wave to swallow us up, and that every time the
ship fell down, as I thought it did, in the trough or
hollow of the sea, we should never rise more. In this
agony of mind, I made vows and resolutions, that if
it pleased God to spare my life, if ever I set my foot
upon dry land again, I would go directly home to m
father, and never set it into a ship again while
lived; that I would take his advice, and never run
into such miseries again. I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life,
how easy, how comfortable, he had lived all his days,
and never had been ex used to tempests at sea, or
troubles on shore; and fresolved that I would, like a
true repenting prodigal, go home to my father.
These thoug ts continued during the storm, and
some time after; but the next day the wind abated,
and the sea became calm, and I began to be a little
inured to it. But I was Very grave for all that day,
being a little sea-sick still; but towards night the
12 aonnuon causes.
evening followed; the sun set perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning, and having no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was
the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no longer
sea-sick, but very cheerful ; looking with wonder u on
the sea, that was so rough and terrible the day e-
fore, and could be so calm and leasant in so little
8. time after. And lest my goo resolutions should
continue, my companion, who had enticed me away,
comes to me—“ Well Bob," said he, clap ing me upon
the shoulder, “how do you do after it P Iowan-ant you
were frightened last night, when it blew but a capful
of wind?"—“ A capful d’you call it P" said I, “ ’twas
a terrible storm."—“ A storm, you fool you! do you
\ nosnvson causos. 13

call that a storm P” Wh it was nothing at all; give
us but“ a good ship and, sea-room, and we think
nothing of such a squall of wind as that! but you’re
but a fresh water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make
a bowl of unch, and we’ll forget all that. D’you
see what 0 arming weather ’tis now ?" In short,
the punch was made, and I was made half drunk with
it, and in that one night’s wickedness I drowned all
\ nosnvson causos. 13
and all my resolutions for the future. n a word, as
the sea was become calm, so the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears of being swallowed up by the
sea being forgotten, and the current of my former de-
sires returned, I forgot the vows and promises made
\ nosnvson causos. 13
and serious thoughts would return sometimes; but I
shook them off, and roused myself as from a distem-
per; and applying in selfto drinking and company,
soon mastered those ts (for so I called them 2) and
\ nosnvson causos. 13
conscience. But I was to have another trial for it
still, and Providence resolved to leave me entirely
without excuse, for, if I would not take this for a de-
liverance, the next was to be such a one as the Worst
and most hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into the
Yarmouth Roads, the wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little way
since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con-
trary, viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days ; dur-
ing which time a great many ships from Newcastle
came into the same roads, as the common harbour
where the shi s might wait for a wind for the river.
But we ha not rid here so long, but we should
have tided it up the river, but the wind blew too
\ nosnvson causos. 13
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good
as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our ground-
tackle very strong, our men were not in the least ap-
prehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and
mirth; buf‘the eighth day in the morning the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our
topmasts, and make every thing snug and close, that
the ship might ride easy. By noon the sea went
very high, and our ship rid forecastle in, ship ed
several seas, and we thought once or twice our anc or
had come home, upon which our master ordered out
the sheet anchor, so that we rode with two anchors
a-head, and the cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm, and now I
began to see terror in the faces of the seamen them-
selves. The master, though vigilant in the business
of preserving the ship, yet, as he went in and out of
his cabin b me, I could hear him, softly to himself,
say seve times, “Lord, be merciful to us! We
l4 aosrnsox causes.
I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, and cannot de-
l4 aosrnsox causes.
tence, w 'ch had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself against. I thought the bitterness
of death had been past, and that this would be nothing,
l4 aosrnsox causes.
by me, and said we should be all lost, I was dread—
fully frightened. I got up out of in cabin, and
looked out; but such a dismal sight never saw;
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes, and I could see nothing
but distress around us. Two ships that rid near us,
had cut their masts by the board, being deep loaden;
and our men cried out, that a ship, a mile a-head of
us, was foundered. Two more ships, being driven
from their anchors, were run out of the-roads to sea,
and not a mast standing. The light ships fared the
best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or
three of them drove close by us, running away, with
only their sprit-sail out before the wlnd.
Towards the evening the mate and boatswain beg-
ged the master to let them cut away the fore-mast,
which he was unwilling to do; but the boatswain
saying that if he did not, the ship would founder, he
consented; and when they had cut away the fore-
mast, the main-mast stood so loose, and shook the
ship so much, they had to out her away also, and make
a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But I
was in tenfold more horror on account of my former
convictions, and resolutions which I made when ap-
parently near death; and these, added to the terrors
of the storm, put me into such a condition, that I can
by no words describe it. But the worst was not come
yet; the storm continued with such fury, that the
seamen acknowledged they had never seen a worse.
We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and so
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and.
then cried out she would founder. It was my advan-
tage, that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I inquired. The storm was so violent, that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
others, at their prayers, and expecting every moment
that the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle
of the night, one of the men that had been down on
purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a leak, ano-
ther said there was four feet water in the hold. Then
all hands were called to the pump. At that very
word my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I
fell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I was as well able to pump as another;
at which I went to the ump, and worked very
heartily. While this was oing, the master, seeing
some light colliers, that were obliged to sli and run
away to sea, and would come nearer us, ordered a gun
16 ROBINSON causon.
nothing what that meant, was so surprised that I
thought the ship had broke or some dreadful thing
happened. I was so surprised, that I fell down in a
sWoon. As this was a time when every body had his
own life to think of, nobody minded me, but another
man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside
with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead ;
and it was a great while before I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder.
and though the storm abated a little, yet as she could
not swim till we might run into any port, so the mas-
16 ROBINSON causon.
it out just a-head of us, ventured a boat out to help
us. It was with the utmost hazard that the boat
came near us, but it was impossible for us to get on
board, or for the boat to lie near the ship-side, till at
last the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over
the stem with a buoy to it, and then veered it out at
a great length, which they, after much labour and
hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under
our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no
urpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching to their own ship, so all agreed to
let her drive, and only to pull her in towards the
shore as much as we could; and our master promised
them, that if the boat was staved upon shore, he
would make it good to their master. So partly row-
ing and partly driving, our boat went away to the
northward, sloping towards the shore, almost as far
as \Vinterton.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, before we saw her sink, and then I
16 ROBINSON causon.


ship foundering in the sea. I had hardly eyes to look
up, when the seamen told me she was sinking, for,
from that moment, they rather put me into the boat,
than that I might be said to go in; my heart was, as
it were, dead within me, partly with fright, and the
thought of what was yet before me.
While the men were et labouring at the oar to
bring the boat near the s ore, we could see (when our
boat mounted the waves, we were able to see the
shore) a great many people running along the strand
to assist us when we should come near. But we
made but slow way towards the shore; nor were We
able to reach the shore, till being past the light-house
at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward to-
wards Cromer, and so the land broke a little the vio-
lence of the wind. Here we got in; and with much
nonruson causes. 17
to Yarmouth, where we were used with great hu-
manity by the magistrates of the town, who assigned
us good quarters, and by merchants and owners of
nonruson causes. 17
nonruson causes. 17
Had I had the sense to go back to Hull, and then
home, I had been happy, and then my father, an em-
blem of our Saviour's parable, had even killed the
fatted calf for me; for, hearing the ship was cast
away in Yarmouth roads, it was a great while before
he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on with a determined
obstinacy; and though I had several times loud calls
for my more composed judgment, to go home, yet I
had no power to do it. I know not what to call this;
nor will I urge, that it is a secret overruling decree,
that hurries us on to be the instruments of our own
destruction, and to push upon it with our eyes open.
Certainly, nothing but some such decreed unavoida-
ble mise attending, could have pushed me forward
against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my
1;
mind, and against two such visible instructions as I
18 nosmson' causes.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son. was now less forward
18 nosmson' causes.
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days,
for we were separated in the town to several quar-
ters; his tone was altered; and, looking melancholy,
and shaking his head, asked me how I did: and tol-
ling his father who I was, and how I had come this
voyage only for a trial, in order to go farther abroad;
his father with a very grave tone, said “ Young man,
you ought never to go to sea any more; you ought
to take this for a visible token, that you are not to be
a seafaring man."—“ \Vhy, sir,” said I, “will you
0 to sea no more ?"—“’1‘hat is another case," said
o; “it is my calling, and therefore my duty; but
as you made this voyage for a trial, you see what a
taste Heaven has given you of what you are to ex-
pect if you persist: perhaps all this has befallen us
on your account, like Jonah in the ship of Torshish.
Pray, what are you? and on what account did you
go to sea 1"” Upon that I told him some of my story;
at the end of which he burst out with a strange pas-
sion, “\Vhat had I done,” says he, “that such an
unhappy wretch should come into In ship '1" 1 would
not set my foot in the same ship wit thee again for
a thousand pounds!” This was, as I said, an excur-
sion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the
sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have
authority to go. But afterwards he talked very
graver to me, exhorting me to go back to my father,
and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told me that I
might see a visible hand of Heaven against me : “ and,
young man," said he, “if you do not go back, where-
ever you 0, you will meet with nothing but disasters
18 nosmson' causes.
s parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more. As for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land,
and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles
with myself what course of life I should take, and
whether I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
of my thoughts; and it occurred to me how I should
he laughed at, and should be ashamed to see my fa-
ther and mother, and every body else. I have since
learned how irrational the temper of mankind is, es-
pecially of youth, to that reason that ought to guide
them in such cases; viz. they are not ashamed of the
action for which they ought justly to be esteemed -
fools, but are ashamed of the returning, which can
only make them esteemed as wise men.
In this state of life, however I remained some time.
An irresistible reluctance continued to my going home;
and, as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the dis-
tress I had been in wore off; and the little notion I
had in my desires to return were off with it,- till I
quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for
a voyage. .
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 19
my father’s house, which hurried me into the wild
notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed those
conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf to
all good advice, and to the entreaties of my father;
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 19
most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view. I
went on board a vessel bound to the coast of ’ Africa,
or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my misfortune, that, in all my adventures,
I did not ship myself as a sailor ; whereby though I
might have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 19
lieutenant, if not for a master. But it was always my
fate to choose for a worse; for having money in my
pocket, and good clothes on my back, I would always
2O nonrxson canson.
go on board in the habit of a gentleman, and so I
geither had any business in the ship, nor learned to
0 any.
It was my lot to fall into pretty good company in
London, which does not always happen to such un-
2O nonrxson canson.
acquainted with the master of a ship who had been
on the coast of Guinea, and who, having had great
success there, was resolved to go again. This cap-
tain, liking my conversation, and hearing me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, if I Would go
the Voyage with him, I should be at no expense; I
should be his messmate, and his companion; and if
‘ I could carry an thing with me, I should have all
the advantage 0 it that the trade would admit.
I embraced the offer, and, entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest man,
went the voyage with him, and carried a small adven-
ture, which, by the disinterested honesty of the cup-
tain, I increased considerably; for I carried about
2O nonrxson canson.
me to buy. This 40!. I had mustered by the assis-
tance of some of my relations whom I corresponded
with, and who, I believe, got my father, or my nio-
2O nonrxson canson.
This was the only voyage which was successful in
all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity
of my friend the captain, who gave me a competent
knowledge of the mathematics, and the rules of navi-
gation; and how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and to understand some
things needful to be understood by a sailor; for. as
he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn;
and this voyage made be both a sailor and a merchant ;
2O nonrxson canson.
dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London
2O nonrxson canson.
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yet,

21
even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes too. I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent fe-
ver by the excessive heat of the climate, our princi-
pal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude of
5 deg. N. even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go
the same voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man
made; for though I did not carry off quite 100l. of
my newly-gained wealth, so that I had 200i. left,
and which I lodged with my friend’s widow, who
was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes
ROBINSON CRUSOR.
Wards the Canary Islands, or between those Islands
and the African shore, was surprised in the grey of
the morning by a Moorish rover of Sallee, which
chased us with all her sails. We crowded as much
canvass as our yards could spread, or our masts carry,
ROBINSON CRUSOR.
an would come up with us in a few hours, we pre—
ROBINSON CRUSOR.
rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just
athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as
he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on
that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which
ROBINSON CRUSOR.
and ouring in also his small shot from near two
hun red men on board. However, we had not a man“
touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to
attack us again, and we to defend ourselves; but,
laying us on board the next time upon our other quar-
ter, he entered ninety men upon our decks, who im-
mediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and
rigging. We plied them with small shot, hand-
pikes, powder chests, and cleared our decks of them
twice. But our ship being disabled, and three of our
men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged to
'eld, and were carried prisoners into Sullee, a port
elonging to the Moore.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at.
22 nonrnson cnusoa.
try, to the emperor’s court, as our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his prize, and made
22 nonrnson cnusoa.
ness. At this change, from a merchant to a misera-
ble slave, I was overwhelmed; and now I recollected
my father's prophetic discourse to me, that I should
be miserable. and have none to relieve me, which
was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had
overtaken me, and I was undone without redem tion.
But, alas! this was but a taste of the misery was
yet to go through.
As my new master had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to see. again, believing that it would be
some time or other his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portugal man of war, and that then I should be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away; for when he went to sea, he left me on shore
to look after his little garden, and do the common
drudgery of slaves about the house! and when he
came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to
lie in the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothingr but my escape, and what
method I might take to oit'ect it, but found no way
that had the least probability in it. Nothing pre-
sented to make the supposition of it rational, for I
had nobody to communicate it to that Would embark
with me, no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman,
or Scotchman there, but myself; so that for two years,
I never had the least opportunity to put it in practice.
After about two years, my patron lying at home
22 nonrnson cnusoa.

nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
Iheztrd was for want of money, he used constantly
once or twice in a week, oftener if the weather was
fair, to take the ship’s pinnace, and go out into the
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
young Maresco with him to row the boat, we made him
very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and Maresco, as they
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
him, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half
a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and,
rowing we knew not whither, we laboured all day and
the next night; and when the morning come, we
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
for the shore, and were at least two leagues from the
land. But we got well in again, though with a great
deal of labour and danger, for the wind began to blow
pretty fresh in the morning. We were all very
un
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
take more care of himself for the future; and having
the lon boat of our English ship, he resolved not to
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, an English
slave, to build a little state room or cabin in the mid-
dle of the long boat, like that of a barge, with a place
to stand behind it to steer and haul home the main
sheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand and
work the sails. She sailed with what we calla shoul-
der of mutton sail; and the boom jibbed over the to
of the cabin, which lay very snug and low, and he
in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two', and a
table to eat on, with small lockers for bottles of such
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
and coffee. '
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
nosmson CRUSOE. ' 23
24 ROBXNBON cnvsos.
out me. One day he had appointed to go out in this boat
with two or three Moors of some distinction, and for
whom he had provided extraordinarily, and had sent on
board over night a larger store of provisions than
usual; and had ordered me to get ready three fusils
with powder and shot, which were on board his ship,
24 ROBXNBON cnvsos.
I got all things ready, and waited next morning
with the boat washed clean, her ancient and pendants
out, and every thing to accommodate his guests; my
patron soon came on board alone, and said his guests
ad put elf going, upon some business that fell out,
and ordered me with the man and boy to go out with
24 ROBXNBON cnvsos.
sup at his house; and that as soon as I had got some
24 ROBXNBON cnvsos.
This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for I was likely to have a
little ship at m command; and my master being
24 ROBXNBON cnvsos.
business, but for a voyage; though I lmew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I would
steer, for any where to get out of that place was my
wa .
24 ROBXNBON cnvsos.
thing for our subsistence on board, for I told him we
must not eat our patron's bread. He said, that was
true; so he brought a large basket of biscuit, and
three jars of fresh water, into the boat. I knew where
my patron’s case of bottles stood, which, b the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and took them
into the heat, while the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before for our master; also, a lump of
beees wax, which weighed half a. hundred weight,
with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and
a hammer, which were of great use to us afterwards:
especially the wax to make candles. Another trick
I tried upon him. His name was Ismael, whom they

called Muley or Moley; so I called to him: “Mo-
Icy,” said I, “ our patron’s guns are all on board the
boat; can on get a little. powder and shot ? we may
kill some i comics (a fowl like our curlews) for our-
selves, for I know he keeps the gunner’s stores in the
ship.” “ Yes," says he, “ I’ll bring some.” Accor-
dingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held
about a pound and a half of powder, and another with
ROBINSON causes. 25
found some owder of my master’s in the great cabin,
ROBINSON causes. 25
which was almost empty. pouring what was in it into
another, and thus furnished with every thing needful,
ROBINSON causes. 25
entrance of the port, kncw us, and took no notice of
us; and we were not above a. mile out of the port,
ROBINSON causes. 25
The wind blew from the N .N.E., contrary to my de-
sire; for had it blown southerly, I could have made
the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of
Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it
would, to escape that horrid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate.
ROBINSON causes. 25
ROBINSON causes. 25
them up, that he might not see them,) I said to the
Moor, “ This will not do; our master will not be
thus served. We must stand farther off." He
thinking no harm, agreed; and being in the head of
the boat, set the sails, and, as I had the helm, I ran
the boat out a league farther, and then brought her
ROBINSON causes. 25
I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and making
as if stooped for something behind him, I took him
by surprise with my arm under his twist. and tossed
him overboard into the sea. He rose immediately,
for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to
be taken in, told me he would go all over the world
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he
would have reached me very quickly, there being but
little wind: upon which I stepped into the cabin, and
fetching one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at
him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and, if
he would be quite, I would do him none. “But,”
said I, “you swim well enough to reach the shore,
and the sea is calm ; make tho best of your way to the
shore, I will do you no harm; but if you come near
the boat, I’ll shoot you through the head. for I will
have my liberty." So he swam for the shore, and I
make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was
an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but I could not
trust him. \Vhen he was gone, I turned to the boy,
called Xury, and said to him, “ Xury, if you will be
faithful to me, I'll make you a great man; but if you.
will not stroke your face to be true to me," that is,
swear by Mahomet and his father's board, “I must
throw you into the see. too.” The boy smiled and
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him;
he swore to be faithful, and go all over the world with
me.
While seeing the Moor swimming, I stood out di-
rectly to sea with the boat, to windward, that they
might think me gone towards the Strait's mouth, for
who would have thought we sailed to the southward,
' to the truly Barbarian coast, where all nations of Ne-
groes were sure to surround us with their canoes, and
destroy us. where we could never go once on shore,
but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind I"
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I chang-
ed my course, and steered directly south and by cast,
bonding m course towards the east, that I might
keep in wit the shore; and having a fair fresh gale
of wind, and a smooth sea, I made such sail, that by

the next day at three o’clock in the afternoon, when
nonnvson causes. 27
quite beyond the emperor of Morocco’s dominions.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful fears of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop or go on shore, or come to an an-
chor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that
nonnvson causes. 27
southward; I concluded, also, that if any of our ves-
sels were in chase of me, they would give over; so I
ventured to make to the coast, and come to an anchor
in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what or
where, nor what latitude, country, nation, or river.
I neither saw nor desired to see any people; the prin-
cipal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore
as soon as it was quite dark, but we heard such dread-
ful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of
wild creatures, that the boy was ready to die with
fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day.
“Well, Xury,” said I, “then I won’t; but we may
see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those
lions.” “Then we may give them the shoot gun,”
says Xur§laughing, “ make them run away.” Such
English ury spoke by conversing among us slaves.
I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him
a dram (out of our patron’s case of bottles) to cheer
him up. After all Xury’s advice was good, and I
took it. We dropped our little anchor, and lay still
all night ; for we slept none. In two or three hours
we saw great creatures, we knew not what to call
them, of many sorts, come down to the sea shore, and.
run into the water, wallowing and washing them-
selves for the pleasure of cooling themselves ; and they
made most hideous howlings and yellings.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and so was I too ;
but we were both worse frightened when we heard
one of the creatures swimming towards our boat; we
28 Bonuses cannon.
could not see him, but we heard him by his blowing
to be a monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said
it was a lion, and it might be for auglit I knew.
Poor Xu cried out to me to weigh anchor and row
away. “ 0,” says I, “ Xury, we can slip our cable
with a buo to it, and go to sea; they cannot follow
us far.” had no sooner said so, but I perceived the
creature within two oars' length, which surprised me:
but I immediately stepped to the cabin door, and taking
28 Bonuses cannon.
and swam towards the shore again.
But I cannot describe the horrible noises, and hid-
eous howlings, that were raised, as well upon the edge
of the shore as higher within the country, upon the
report of a gun, which, erhaps, those creatures had
never heard before. This convinced me that there
was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was
another question too ; for, to have fallen into the hands
of savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
paws of lions and tigers.
But we were obliged to go on shore for water, for
we had not a pint in the boat; when or where to get
it was the point. Xury said if I would let him go on
28 Bonuses cannon.
any water, and bring it. I asked him why he would
go, why I should not go, and he stay in the boat.
The boy answered with so much affection, that made
me love him ever after. Says he, “ If wild mans come,
they eat me up; you go away.” “ Well, Xury," said
I, “we will both go; and if the wild mans come, we
will kill them; they shall eat neither of us.” So I
gave Xury a piece of rush-bread to eat, and a dram,
and we hauled the boat in as near the shore, as we
thought (proper, and waded on shore, carrying our
arms, an two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river;
4
but the boy seeing a low place, about a mile up the
country, rambled to it, and by and by I saw him
come running towards me. I thought he was pur-
sued by some savage, or frightened with some wild
beast, and I ran towards him to help him; but when
he came nearer, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like
a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs. How-
ever, we were glad of it, as it was very good meat;
but the great jo that Xury came with, was to tell
me he had found good water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
we found the water fresh when the tide was out; so
ncnmson causes, 29
killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen
no footsteps of any human creaturein that part of the
country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands, lay not far off from the
coast. But as I had no instruments to take an ob-
servation to know what latitude we were in, and did
not exactly remember what latitude they were in, I
knew not where to look for them, or when to stand
ncnmson causes, 29
found some of these islands. But my hope was, that
if I stood along this coast till I came to that t
ncnmson causes, 29
vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would
relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that lace where I
now was, must he that country which, ying between
the Emperor of Morocco’s dominions and the Negroes
lies waste and uninhabited, except b wild beasts,
the Negroes having abandoned it, an gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors: and the Moors not
thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barren-
ness, because of the great numbers of tigers, lions,
leopards, and other furious creatures, so that the
Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go
two or three thousand men at a time; for near a hun-
dred miles upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing
but howling of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day time, I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneritle, being the high top of the mountain
80 aonuvsou causes.
to reach it, but, having tried twice, I was forch in
again by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for
80 aonuvsou causes.
sign, and keep along the shore.
Several times we had to land for fresh water. and
once, early in the morning, we came to an anchor un-
der a little point of water, which was pretty high, and
80 aonuvsou causes.
in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him, it seems,
than mine, calls softly to me, and tells me that we
had best go farther oil" the shore, “For,” says he,
“look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of
that hillock, fast asleep." I looked, and saw a dread-
ful monster, even a terrible great lion, that lay on the
side of the shore, under the shade of the hill, that
hung a little over him. “ Xury,l’ said I, “ you shall
go on shore and kill him.” Xury looked frightened,
and said, “Me kill! He eat me at one mouth I" one
mouthful, he meant. I said no more to the boy, but
bade him be still, and took our biggest gun, which
was almost musket-bore, and two slugs; then I loaded
another gun with two bullets, and the third I loaded
80 aonuvsou causes.
80 aonuvsou causes.
but he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose
that the slug hit his leg about the knee, and broke the
80 aonuvsou causes.
his leg broke, fell wn again, and then got upon

three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever
I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not hit
him on the head; however, I took up the second
nonnzson cnvson. 31
and shot him into the head, and had the pleasure to
see him drop, and making but little noise, he lay strug-
gling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would go
ashore. “Well go,” said I. So the boy jumped into
the water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam
to shore with the other hand, and coming close to the
creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and
shot him into the head again, which dispatched him
quite.
This was game to us, but no food, and I was sorry
to lose three charges of powder and shot, upon a.
creature good for nothing to us. But Xury said he
Would have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked for the hatchet. “ For what, Xury F” said I.
“Me cut off his head,” said he. But Xury could not
cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it,
a monstrous great'one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin
might be of some value to us, and I resolved to take
011‘ his skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work
with him; but Xury was much the better workman
at it. It took us both the whole day, but at last we
got off the hide, and spreading it on the top of our
nonnzson cnvson. 31
and it afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made to the southward for ten.
or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provi-
sions, which began to abate very much, only going
to the shore when we wanted fresh water. My design
was to make the river Gambia or Senegal, or any
where about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes
to meet with some European ship ; and if I did not,
I knew not what course to take, but to seek for the
islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I knew
that all the ships from Europe, which sailed either to
the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the East In-
dies, made this cape or those islands, and I put the
whole of my fortune upon this single point, either
that I must meet with some ship or perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, I began to see that the land was inhabited,
and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw
people stand upon the shore to look at us; they were
quite black, and naked. I was once inclined to go on
shore to them, but Xury was my better counsellor,
and said to me, “ No go, no go." However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and
they ran along the shore b me a good way ; they had
no weapons in their han 5, except one, who had a
long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, that
the would throw them a great way with good aim;
so kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs
for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop
my boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon
this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay b , and two
of them ran up into the country, and in ha an hour
B2 nosnvsos cnvson.
some corn, the produce of their country, but we nei-
ther knew what the one or the other was; however,
we were willing to accept it. But how to get it was
our next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore
to them, and they were as much afraid of us, but they
took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the
shore, and laid it down, and went, and stood a great
way off, till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.
We made signs to thank them, for we had nothing
to make them amends; but an opportunity olfered
that instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while
we were lying by the shore, there came two mighty
creatures, one pursuing the other with great fury,
from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was

the male pusuing the female, or whether they were in
sport or in rage. we could not tell, but I believe it was
the latter, because those ravenous creatures seldom
appear but in the night, and because we found the
people terribly frightened, especially the women. The
aosrnsoN causes. 33
rest did. However, as the two creatures ran directly
aosrnsoN causes. 33
the Negroes, but plunged into the sea, and swan] about
as if for diversion ; and at last one of them came
aosrnsoN causes. 33
ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all pos-
sible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others.
aosrnsoN causes. 33
and shot him through the head. mmediately he
sank down into the water, but rose instantly, and
plunged up and down as if struggling for life, and so
indeed he was. He immediately made to the shore,
but from the wound, and the strangling of the water,
he died just before he reached it.
Great was the atonislimont of these poor creatures
at the report of my gun; some of them were ready
even to die of fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk into the water, and that I made signs for them
to come to the shore, they took heart and came, and
began to search for the creature. I found him by his
aosrnsoN causes. 33
. him, and gave it the Negroes to haul, they dragged
him on shore, and found it was a most curious leopard,
very beautifully spotted; and the Negroes hold up
their hands with admiration, to think what it was
I killed him with.
The other creature, frighted with the noise of the
gun, swam to the shore, and ran to the mountains
from whence they came, nor could I at that distance
know what it was. I found the Negroes were for
aosrnsoN causes. 33
0
have them take it as a favour from me, which, when
I made signs to them that they might take him. they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to
work wilh him, and though they had no knife, yet
with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his skin
Inth more readily than we could have done with a
34 ROBINSON cnvson.
declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely,
and brought me more of their provision, which though
I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I made
signs for some water, and held a jar to them, turning
its bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and
34 ROBINSON cnvson.
diately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made out of earth,
and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun: this they set down,
as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and
34 ROBINSON cnvson.
the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as
it was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
34 ROBINSON cnvson.
34 ROBINSON cnvson.
at length, doubling the point at about tWo leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side
to seaward; then I concluded, it was most certain,
that this was the Cape dc Verd, and those islands,
called from thence Cape de Verd islands. But they
were at a great distance~ and I could not well tell
what to do ; for if I should be taken with a fresh wind,
I might neither reach one nor the other.
In this dilemma, I was very pensive, and went into
the cabin, and sat down, Xury having the helm,
when on a sudden the boy cried out, “ Master, mas-

ter. a ship was a sail l” and the foolish boy was fright-
ed out of his wits, thinking it must be some of his
master’s ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we
were gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped
out of the cabin, and saw the ship, and what she was,
viz. a Portuguese ship, and as I thought, was bound
to the coast of Guinea for Negroes. ‘Vhen I observed
the course she steered, I was convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to go
nearer the shore, upon which I stretched out to sea
as nith as I could, resolving to speak with them if
ossi e.
p With all my sail, I found I should not to able to
come in their way, that they would be gone by before
I could make any signal to them; but after I had
crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they saw
me by the help of their perspective glasses, and that
it was some European boat. which they supposed
must belong to some lost ship; so they shortened sail
to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and
as I had my patron’s ancient on board, I made a waft
nonnzson csusos. 35
both of which they saw, for they told me they saw the
smoke though they did not hear the gun. Upon these
signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for
as, and in about three hours time I came up with
em.
They asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of
them ; but at last a Scotch sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I told him I was an Englishman,
that I had made my escape out of slavery from the
Moors at Sallee. Then they bade me come on board,
and very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me that I was thus
delivered from such a miserable and almost hopeless
condition as I was in. I immediately offered all I had
to the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliv-
36 aoamsou GRUBOI.
eranee; but he generously told me, he Would take
nothing from me. but that all I had should be de-
livered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. “ For,"
says he, “ I have saved your life on no other terms
than as I would be glad to be saved myself _; and it
may one time or other be my lot to be taken up in
the same condition. Besides, when I carry you to
the Brazils, so great a way from your own country,
36 aoamsou GRUBOI.
will be starved there, and then I only take away that
life I have given. No, no. Signor Inglese, (Mr. English-
man,) I will carry you thither in charity, and these
things will help you to buy your subsistence there,
and your passage home again."
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was
just in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered
the seamen that none should touch any thing I had.
He took every thing into his own ossessiou, and gave
me an inventory of them, that IP might have them
again, even so much as my three earthen jars. As
my boat was a very good one, he said he would buy
it of me for the ship‘s use, and asked me what I would
have for it. I told him he had been so generous to
me in every thing, that I could not set any price on
the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which he
told me he would ive me a note of hand to pay me
80 pieces of eight or it in Brazil, and when it came
there, if any one offered to give more, he Would make
36 aoamsou GRUBOI.
boy, Xur , which I was lost to take ; not that I
was unwi ling to let the ca loin have him, but I was
very loath to sell the poor oy’s liberty, who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. How-
ever, when I let him know my reason, he owned it
36 aoamsou GRUBOI.
've the be an obligation to set him free in ten years,
if he tume Christian. U n this, Xury, sayin he
was willing to go to him, let the captain have ' .

We had a good voyage to the Brazlls, and arrived
in the Bay de todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in
twenty-four days after. And now I was once more
delivered from the most miserable condition of life;
but what to do next with myself, I did not know.
The generous treatment of the captain I can never
forget; he would take nothing for my passage, gave
me 20 ducats for the leopard’s skin, and 40 for the
lion’s skin, and caused every thing I had in the ship
to be punctually delivered to me; and what I was
willing to ell he bought, such as the case of bottles,
two of my guns, and a piece of bees wax, for I had
made candles of the rest. I made about 220 pieces of
eight of all my cargo, and with this stock I went on
shore on the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who
had an ingenio, as they call it, that is, a plantation
and a sugar-house, I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself with the manner of their planting
and making of sugar; and seeing how well the plan-
ters lived, and hbw they grew rich suddenly, I resolved,
if I could get licence to settle there, I would turn
- nonINsoN CRUSOE. 37
which I had left in London remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed a plan for my plan-
tation and settlement, and such a one as might be
suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to
receive from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
born of English parents, called \Vells, and in such
circumstances as I was. I call him neighbour, because
his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on socia-
bly together; my stock like his was low, and we re-
ther planted for food than any thing else for about
two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land got into order, so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes in the year to come, but we
both wanted help; and now I found I had done wrong
38 nosrnson causes.
ut, alas! for me to do wrong that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on.
I began an employment remote to my genius, and
contrary to the life I liked, and for which I forsook
my father’s house, and neglected his good advice ; nay,
I was coming into the very middle station, or upper de-
gree of low life, which my father advised, and which
if I resolved to go on with, I might as well have stayed
at home, and not fatigued myself in the world as I
have done; and often I said to myself, I could have
done this as well in England among my friends, as
38 nosrnson causes.
strangers and savages in the wilderness.
Thus I used to look upon my state with the utmost
regret. I had nobody to converse with but this neigh-
bour; no work to be done but by the labour of my
hands; and I lived just like a man cast away on a
desolate island, with noboby there but himself. But
38 nosrnson causes.
that when they compare their present condition with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to
make the exchange, and be convinced of their former
happiness, by experience! I as , how just has it
38 nosrnson causes.
island of mere desolation should be my lot, who had
so often unjustly compared it with the life I then led,
in which, had I continued, I had, probably, been very
prosperous and rich.
I was very nearly settled in my measures for carry-
ing on the plantation, before my kind friend, the cap-
tain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back,
for the ship remained there for loading, and preparing
for her voyage, near three months; when, telling him

what little stock I had left behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly advice : “ Signor Inglcse, if
you will give me letters, and a procuration here in
form to me, with orders to the person who has your
money in London, to send your eil'ects to Lisbon, to
such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as
are proper in this country, I will bringr you the pro-
duce, God willing, at my return; but, since human
affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would.
have you give orders for 100]. sterling, which you say
is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
ROBINSON causes. 39
the same way, and if it miscarry, you may have the
other half for your supply. .
This was such wholesome friendly advice, that I
was convinced it was the best course I could take; so
I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had. left my money, and a procuration
for the Portuguese captain as he desired.
I wrote the English captain’s widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
met with the Portugal captain at sea, his humanity,
and the condition I was in, with all other necessary
directions for my supply; and when this honest cap-
tain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the
English merchants there, to send over the order, and
a full account of my story, to a merchant in London1
who presented it to her; whereupon she not only de- ‘
livered the money, but out of her own pocket sent the
Portugal captain a handsome present for his humani-
ty to me.
The merchant in London vested his lOOl. in Eng-
lish goods, such as the captain had written for, and
sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought
them safe to me to the Brazils; among which, were
all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary"
for my plantation.
When this cargo arrived I thought my fortune
made, for I was supriscd with the joy of it; and In
good steward, the captain, had laid out the 5L whic
my friend had sent him for a prcscnt, to purchase,
and bring me over a servant, under a bond for six
years‘ service, and would not accept of any thing, ex-
cept a little tobacco, of my own produce.
Nor was this all; but my goods being all English
40 ROBINSON causes,
ticularly yaluable and desirable in the country, I sold
them to very great advantage; so that I had more
40 ROBINSON causes,
40 ROBINSON causes,
40 ROBINSON causes,
I bought me a negro slave and an European servant
also; besides that which the captain brought me from
Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oft made the means of
our greatest adversity, so it was with me. I went on
the next year with great success in my plantation; I
40 ROBINSON causes,
than I had disposed of for necessaries among my
40 ROBINSON causes,
1001b. weight, were well cured and laid by against
40 ROBINSON causes,
creasing in business and wealth, my head was full of
projects and undertakings beyond my reach, such as
are often the ruin of the best heads in business.
Had I continued in that station, I might have had
all the happy things, for which my father so earnestly
recommended a quiet retired life, and which he had
described the middle station of life to be full of; but
I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own mis—
eries; and to increase my fault, and double the re-
40 ROBINSON causes,
should make ; all these miscarriages were procured
by obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of
wandering abroad, in contradiction to the clearest
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit
of those prospects, which nature and rovidenca con-
curred to present me with, and to ma e my duty.
As I had once done thus in breaking away from
my parents, so I could not be content now; but I
must go and leave the happy view I had of being a
rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only to
pursue a rash desire of rising faster than the nature
of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down
again into the deepest gulf of human misery that any
man fell into, or, perhaps, could be consistent with
lite, and a state of health in the world.
Beginning to thrive and prosper upon my planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants of
St. Salvadore, which was our port, and that, in my
discourse among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two Voyages to the coast of Guinea. the
manner of trading with the negroes there, and how
nonrusor: cnusos. . 41
as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like, not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, ele-
pihnnts’ teeth, &0. but negroes for the service of the
razils in great numbers.
They listened very attentively to my discourses, es-
pecially to the buying of negroes, which was a trade
at that time not only not far entered into. but, as far as
it was, had been carried on by the permission of the
kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the
public stock. so that few negroes were bought, and
those very dear.
Being in company one day with some merchants,
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to me the
next morning, and told me they had been mnsin
very much upon what I had stated last night, an
they came to make a secret appeal to me, and, after
nonrusor: cnusos. . 41
ship to Guinea; that they had plantations as well as
I, but were straitcncrl for servants; that as it was a
trade that could not be carried on, because they could
not publicly sell the negroes when they came home,
so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the
nogroes on shore privately, and divide them among
their own plantations; and, the question was, whether
I would go, their supercargo in the ship, to manage
the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they
offered me an equal share of the negroes, without pro-
viding any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, had it been made to one
that had not had a settlement and plantation of his
own to look after, and in a fair way of coming to be
very considerable, and with a. good stock upon it. But
for me thus established, and had nothing to do but
go on for three or four years more, and to have sent
for the other 1001. from England, and who, in that
time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth 3 or 4000!. sterling, and
that increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage
was the most preposterous thing that ever man, in
such circumstances, could be guily of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
42 nonmson causes.
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost upon me. I told them I would go with all my
heart, if the would look after my plantation in my
absence, an dispose of it to such as I should direct,
if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do; and I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects, in case of my death, making the captain of the
ship that had saved my life my universal hcir, but
obliging him to dispose of my etfects as I had directed
in my will; one half of the produce being to himself,
and the other to be shipped in England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my
effects, and keep up my plantation. Had I used half

as much prudence to have looked into my own in-
terest, I had never left so prosperous an undertaking,
leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its common hazards, to say nothing of the reasons
I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I obeyed the dictates of my fancy. rather than
my reason ; accordingly, the ship being titted out, and
the cargo furnished, as by agreement by my partners
in the voyage, I went on board in an evil hour again,
the lat of September, 1659, being the same day eight
years that I went from my father and mother at Hull,
to act the rebel to their authority and the fool to my
own interest.
Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried six
guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
nosnvson causon. 43
trade with the Negroes; such as beads, bits of glass,
nosnvson causon. 43
knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board, we set sail, stand-
ing away to the northward upon our own coast, with
design to stretch over for the African coast, when:
they came into about ten or twelve degrees of nor-
thern latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of
- their course in those days. We had very good wea-
ther, only excessive hot, till we came to the height of
Cape St. Augustino, from whence keeping farther off
at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were
bound for the Isle of Fernand de Norouba, holding
our course N, E. by N, and leaving those isles on the
east. In this course we passed the line in about
twelve days’ time, and were, by our last observation,
in 7 degrees, 22 minutes, northern latitude, when a
violent tornado or hurricane began from the south-
east, came about to the north-West, and then settled
into the north-east, from whence it blow in such a
terrible manner, that for twelve days we could do
nothing but drive; and scndding away before it, let
it carry us wherever the fury of the winds directed;
and during these twelve days, I expected every day
to be swallowed up, nor did any in the ship expect to
save their lives.
In this distress one of our men died of the calen-
ture, and one man and the boy were washed overboard.
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little,
the master made an observation, and found that he
was in about 11 degrees of north latitude, but that he
was 22 degrees of longitude difference west from Cape
St. Augustine, so that he found he was got upon the
coast of Guinea, or the north art of Brazil, beyond
the river Amazones, towards t at of the river Oroon-
oque, commonly called the Great River; and now he
began to consult with me what course he should take,
for the ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and
he was for going directly back to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and, looking over
the charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we
concluded there was no inhabited country for us to
have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Caribbee Islands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to
avoid the indraught of the Ba or Gulf of Mexico,
44 noarrrson cnuson.
days’ sail; whereas we could not possibly make our
voyage to the coast of Africa, without some assistance
both to our ship and ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and
steered away NJV. by W. in order to reach some of
our English islands, where I hoped for relief; but
our voyage was otherwise determined; for, being in
the latitude of 12 degrees 18 minutes, a second storm
came upon us, which drove us so out of the very we
of all human commerce, that had our lives been saw
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being de-
voured by savages, than ever returning to our own
country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing veri hard,
one of our men, early one morning, cried out, “ and l”
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look
out, to see whereabouts in the world we were, but the
ship struck upon a sand, and, in a moment, her motion
being stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner
that we expected to perish immediately; and we were
even driven to close quarters, to shelter us from the
foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances. We knew not
where we were, or upon what land we were driven,
whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or
uninhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still
great, we could not so much as hope to have the ship
old many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless
the wind, by a kind of miracle, should change soon.
In a word, we sat expecting death every moment, and
every man acted accordingly, as reparing for another
world, for there was little more or us to do in this;
that which was our present comfort, was, that con-
trary to our expectation the ship did not break yet,
and that the master said the wind began to abate,
Though the wind did a little abate, yet the ship
having thus struck upon the sand and sticking too
fast to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful
condition, and had nothing to do but to think of saving
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our
stern before the storm, but she was staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and then she broke away,
and either sank or was driven off to sea, so there was
no hope from her. We had another boat on board,
nonrsson causon. 45
thing. But there was no room for debate, for we
fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute;
some said she had broken already.
In this distress, the mate with the help of the rest
46 nonmson causes.
and getting all into her, let go, and committed our-
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and
the wild sea; for though the storm was abated con-
siderably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the
shore, and might well be called “ Den wild yee,” as
the Dutch called the sea in a storm. '
And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we
saw lainly that the sea went so high, that the boat
coul not escape, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. As to making sail, we had none; nor, if
we had, could we have done any thing with it: so we
rowed towards the land, with heavy hearts, like men
going to execution; for we knew, that when the boat
neared the shore, she would be dashed in pieces by
the breach of the sea. However, we committed our
souls to God in the most earnest manner, and the
wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our
destruction with our own hands, pulling, as well as
we could, towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope was, to
get into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some riVer,
where, by great chance, we might have run our boat
in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made
smooth water. But nothing of this appeared ; but as
we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked
more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, moun-
tain-like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade
us expect the “ coup de grace.” In a. word it took
us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once,
and separating us as well from the boat, as from one
another, gave us not time hardly to say, “ O God 1"
for we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt when I sunk into the water, for though
I swam very well, yet I could not master the waves
so as to draw my breath, till that wave had driven
me a. vast way towards the shore, and having spent
itself, went back, and left me upon the land almost
dry, but half dead with the water I took in. I had
so much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that
seeing myself nearer the main land than I expected,
I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make towards
the land, before another wave returned, to take me
up again. But I soon found it was impossible to
avoid it, for I saw the sea come after me as high as a
great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no
means or strength to contend with; my business was
to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water,
if I could, and so by swimming to preserve my breath-
ing, and pilot myself towards the shore; my greatest
concern now being that the wave, as it would carry
me a great way towards the shore when it came on,
might not carry me back again with it.
The wave again buried me at once twenty or thirty
feet deep in its own body, and I felt myself carried with
a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very
great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself
to swim forward with all my might. I was ready to
burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself
rising up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head
and hands shoot out above the surface of the water;
and th'ough it was not two seconds of time that I could
keep myself so, yet it gave me breath and new courage.
I was covered again with water a good while, but I
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47
began to return, I struck forward against the return
of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I
stood still a few moments to recover breath, and till
the water went from me, and then I took to my heels,
and ran with what strength I had farther“ towards the
shore. But the sea. came pouring in after me again, -
and twice more was I lifted up by the waves. and
48 nonrssox cnuson.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal
to me; for the sea having hurried me alongas before,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of
rock, with such force as left me senseless, and indeed
helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow taking
my side and breast, beat the breath, quite out of my
body, and had it returned again immediately, I must
have been strangled in the water; but I recovered a.
little before the return of the waves, and seeing
I should be covered again with the water, I
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to
hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back.
48 nonrssox cnuson.
near land, I held fast till the wave abated, and then
fetched another run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet it did not so swallow me up as to cany me away;
and the next run I got to the main land, where, to my
great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore,
and sat down upon the grass, quite out of the reach
of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and thanked
God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there
was some minutes before scarce any room to hope. I
believe it is impossible to express to the life what the
ecstasies and transports of the soul are when it is
so saved, outbf the very grave: and I do not wonder
now at that custom, when a malefactor, with the hal-
ter about his neck, just going to be turned off, and
has a reprieve brought to him ; I do not wonder that
they bringasurgeon with it, to let him blood that
very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise
may not drive the animal spirits {tom the heart, and
overwhelm him :—
48 nonrssox cnuson.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,

wrapt up in the contemplation of my deliverance,
making a thousand gestures and motions which I can-
ROBINSON causes. 49
and that there should not be one soul >aved but In -
self; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards,
or any signs of them, except three of their hats, one
on , and two shoes that were not follows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the'
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could hold-
ly see it, it loy so far off; and (illnr'ldcl'ed, Lord! how_
was it possible I could get ashore!
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of mv condition, I began to look around me, to
see what ind of place I was in, and what was next to
be done, and I soon found my comforts abate; for I
was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either
to eat or drink to comfort me, neither did I see any
prospect before me but that of perishng with hung-er,
or of being dcvnured by wild beasts: and that which
was particularly atllieting to me was, that I had no
weapon either to hunt and kill any creature for my
sustenance, or to defend myself against any other
creature that might desire to kill me for theirs. Ina
word, I had nothing about me but a knife. a tobacco-
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box: this was all my
provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies of
mind, that for a while I ran about like a. madman.
Night coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart,
to consider what would be my lot, if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that uttered to my thoughts at that
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a tir,
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next day what death
ROBINSON causes. 49
walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I
ROBINSON causes. 49
D 4
great joy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco
in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree,
and getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so
as that, if I should sleep, I might not fall; and having
cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging; and having been excessively
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as
I believe few could have done in my condition, and
found myself the most refreshed with it that I think
I ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated; but that which surprised me
most was, that the ship was lifted off in the night,
from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the
tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
60 nosmson cansos.
by dashing me against it. This being within about a
mile from the shore where I was, and the ship
seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on
board, that at least I might save some necessary
things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree,
60 nosmson cansos.
was the boat, which lay as the wind and sea had
tossed her upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the
shore to get to her, but found a neck or inlet of
water between me and the boat, which was about
half a mile broad; so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
60 nosmson cansos.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm; and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found a
fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently that
if we had kept on board we had been all safe, that
is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not
been left entirely destitute of all comfort and compa-

ny, as I now was. This forced tears from my eyes
again; but as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if,
nosmson causes. 61
or the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
nosmson causes. 61
was still greater to know how to get on board, for as
she lay aground and high out of the water, there was
nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I espied a small
nosmson causes. 61
ang down by the fore chains, so low as that with
nosmson causes. 61
that rope, got up into the forecastle of the ship. Here
I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal
of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side
of a bank of hard sand, that her stern lay lifted up
upon the bank, and her head low almost to the water;
by this means all her quarter was free, and all that
was in that part was dry; for you may be sure in
nosmson causes. 61
nosmson causes. 61
provisions were dry and untouched by the water : and
eing very hungry, I went to the bread-room, and
nosmson causes. 61
about other things, for I had no time to lose. I also
found some rum in the great cabin, of which I took a
large dram, and of which I had need enough, to spirit
me for what was before me. Now I wanted nothing
but a boat to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still, and wish for what was
not to be had; and this extremity roused my appli-
cation. We had several spare yards, and two or
three large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or
two in the ship ; I resolved to fall to work with these,
nosmson causes. 61
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope
that they might not drive away. When this was
UBRiiRY M
UNiVERSlTY 0F lillNOlS
done, I went down the ship’s side, and pulling them
to me, I tied four of them fast together at both ends
as well as I could, in the form of a raft; and laying
tWo or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found that I could walk upon them very
we 1, but that it was not able to bear any great
weight, the pieces being too light: so I went to work,
and with a carpenter’s saw I cut a spare top-mast
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with
great labour; but the hope of furnishing myself with_
necessaries encouraged me more than I should have
been able to have done upon another occasion.
M raft was now strong enough to bear an rea-
sona 1e weight. My next care was what to oad it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea: but I was not long considering
62 nonrnson causes.
I could get, and having considered well what I most
62 nonrnson causes.
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
62 nonrnson causes.
with provisions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses,
62 nonrnson causes.
and a little remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which we brought to sea
with us, but the fowls were killed. There had been
some barley and wheat together, but, to my great
disappointment, I found_ that the rats had eaten or
spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases
of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
62 nonrnson causes.
arrack; these I stowed h themselves, there being no
need to put them into t e_chest, nor any room for
62 nonrnson causes.
62 nonrnson causes.
my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on.
shore upon the sand, swim away; as for m breeches,
which were only linen, and open-kuee'd, swam on

board in them and my stockings. But this put me
upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough,
but took no more than I wanted for present use, for
I had other things which my eye was more upon: as
tools to work with on shore, and it was after long
searching that I found the carpenter’s chest, which
was a very useful prize to me, and much more valua-
ble than a ship-load of gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
Without losing time to loo into it, for I knew what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
nonmson enosos. 53
some powder-horns, a small bag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our nner
ad stowed them, but with much search I foun them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water;
those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to
think how I could get to shore with them, having
neither sail, car, or rudder, and the least capful of
wind would have overset all my navigation.
nonmson enosos. 53
calm sea; secondly, the tide rising and setting in to
the shore; thirdly, what little wind there was blew
me towards the land. And thus, having found two
or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and be-
sides the tools which were in the chest, I found two
saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this cargo I
put to sea. For about a mile my raft went ve well,
onl it sailed a little distant from the. place w ere I
he landed before, by which I perceived there was
some indraught of the water, and consequently I
nonmson enosos. 53
make as a port to land with my cargo.
And so it was; there appeared before me a little
opening of the land. I found a strong current of the
tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could,
in the middle of the stream. But here I had like to
have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I
think verily would have broken my heart; for, know-
ing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground, at
one end of it, u on a shoal, not being aground at the
other, it wante but a little that all my cargo had
54 ROBINSON cnvson.
fallen into the water. I did my utmost by setting
’my back against the chests, to keep them in their
places, but could not thrust off the raft with all my
strength; neither durst I stir from the sture I was
in, but, holding up the chests with m might,
stood so near half an hour, in which time t e rising
of the water brought me a little upon a. level, and, a
54 ROBINSON cnvson.
again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into
the channel, and than driving up higher, I found
myselfin the mouth of a little river, with land on
both sides, and a strong current of tide running up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to
shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high 11
the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea, an
therefore resolved to place myself near the shore.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
54 ROBINSON cnvson.
raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching ground
with my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but here
I had nearl dipped my cargo into the see. again, for
the shore s 0 ing, there was no place to land, but
54 ROBINSON cnvson.
lie so high, and the other sink lower as before, that
it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could
do was to wait till the tide was at the highest,
kee ing the raft with my our, like an anchor, to
54 ROBINSON cnvson.
piece of ground, which I expected the water would

nonmson'enusoa. 55
enough (for my raft drew about a foot of water,) I
nonmson'enusoa. 55
fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken
cars into the ground, one on one side near one end,
and one on the other side near the other end: and
thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft
and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek
a proper place for my habitation, and where to stow
my goods to secure them from whatever might hap-
pen. Where I was I yet knew not, whether on the
continent or on an island ; whether inhabited, or not
inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts or not.’
There was a hill not above a mile from me, very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop some other
hills, which lay as in a ridge from it northward. I
took out one of the fowling pieces, and one of the pis-
tols, and a horn of powder, and thus armed. I travel-
led for discovery up to the top of that hill, where,
nonmson'enusoa. 55
nonmson'enusoa. 55
that I was on an island, environed with the sea, no
nonmson'enusoa. 55
and two islands less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was on was barren,
and, as I saw good reasons to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw
none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds, neither when I killed them could I tell
nonmson'enusoa. 55
back, I shot a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a
tree, on the side of a large wood. I believe it was
nonmson'enusoa. 55
nonmson'enusoa. 55
from all parts of the wood there arose an extraordi-
nary number of fowls, of many sorts, making a. con-
55»-
.kr _
fused screaming and crying, every one according to
his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that
I knew. As for that creature I killed, I took it to
be a kind of hawk, its colour and beak resembling
it, but it had no talons or claws more than common:
56 YOBINSON cavsos.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring the rest of my cargo
on shore, which took me up the rest of the day.
What to do with myself at night I knew not, nor
indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on
the ground. not knowing but some wild beast might
devour me, though I afterwards found there was really
no need for those fears.
As well as I could, I barricaded myself round with
the chests and boards I had brought on shore, and
made a kind of but for that night's lodging: as for
food, I yet saw not how to supply myself, except that
I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out
of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I began to consider that I might yet get a many
things out of the ship which would be useful to me,
particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to hand, and I resolved
to make another voyage to the vessel ; and as I know
56 YOBINSON cavsos.
her in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart
till I got every thing out of the ship that I could,
then I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts,
whether I should take back the raft, but this appeared
impracticable, so I resolved to go as before, when the
tide was down, and I did so, only that I stripped
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
checkered shirt, a pair of linen draWcrs, and a pair of
pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first,
I neither made this so unwieldy, noi- loaded it 86
hard; but I brought away several things very use-
nonmsox causes. 67
two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a great
screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above
all, that most useful thing called a grindstone : all
those I secured, together with several things belong-
ing to the gunner, particularly three iron crows, and
two barrels of musket bullets, seven niuskets, and
another fowling-piece, with a small quantity of pow-
der more; a large bag full of small shot, and a great
roll of sheet lead, but this last was so heavy, I could
not hoist it up to get it over the shi ’s side.
Besides these things, I took all e men’s clothes
nonmsox causes. 67
and some bedding, and with this I loaded my second
raft, and brought them also safe on shore.
l was afraid that, during my absence, all m pro-
visions might be devoured on shore; but when came
back, I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat a
creature like a wild out upon one of the chests, which,
when I came towards it, ran away to a little distance,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and un-
concerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had
a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented my
gun at her, but as she did not understand it, she was
perfectly unconcerned, nor did she offer to stir away;
upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though I was
not very free of it, for my store was not great. How-
ever, I gave her a bit; she smelled at it, ate it, and
looked for more; but I thanked her, and could spare
no more, so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore (though I
was fain to open the barrels of powder, and bring
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being large
casks,) I went to work to make a little tent with the
sail and some poles which I cut for that p se;
and into this tent I brought every thing that I ew
would spoil, either with rain or sun; and I piled all
the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any attempt from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest
set up on an end without, and spreading one of the
beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at
my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed
68 nosmson causes.
hard all day, as well to fetch those things from the
ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the largest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid u , I believe, for one man; but I was
68 nosmson causes.
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing
out of her that I could; so every day, at low water,
I went on board, and brought away something or
other. But particularly the third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as
also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get,
with a piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the
sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder.
68 nosmson causes.
only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could, for they were no more
useful to me for sails, but as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me more still was, that
68 nosmson causes.
I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was
worth meddling with, I found a great hogshead of
bread, three large runlets of rum or spirits, a box
68 nosmson causes.
ing to me, because I had given over expecting any
more revisions, except what was spoiled by the wa-
ter. soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and
wrapt it up parcel by parcel, igaipieces of the sails
which I cut out; and I got this e on shore also at
several times.
The next day I made another voyage; and now

having plundered the ship of what was portable, I
began with the cables; and cutting the great cable
into pieces such as I could move, I got two cables and
a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I could
get ; and having cut down the spritsail yard, and the
mizen- ard, and every thing I could to make a large
raft, I oaded it with all those heavy goods and came
away. But my good luck began to leave me, for this
raft was so unwieldy and so overloaded, that after I
entered the little cove where I landed the rest of my
goods, not being able to guide it so well as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and my cargo into the
water. As for myself, it was no great harm, for I
was near the shore; but part of my cargo was lost,
especially the iron1 which I expected to be of eat
use to me. However, when the tide was out, got
most of the ieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron,
nonmaox causes. 69
the water, a work which fatigued me very much. Af-
telilfgls, I went every day, and brought away what I
co .
I had now been thirteen days on shore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship, in which times
I had brought away all that one pair of hands could
well be en posed capable to bring, though I believe
verily. he the calm weather held, I should have
brought away all the whole ship piece by “piece. But
preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found
the wind began to rise; but, at low water, I went on
board; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so that nothing more could be found, yet I dis—
covered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which
I found two or three razors, and one pair of large
scissors, with ten or a dozen good knives and forks;
in another I found about thirty-six pounds value in
none , some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces
of eig t, some gold and silver.
I smiled at the sight of this money, and said aloud,
“ 0 drug, what art thou good for? Thou art not
worth to me, no, not the taking off the ground. One
of those knives is worth all this heap. I have no use
for thee, even remain where thou art, and go to the
bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving!"
But u on second thoughts I took it away, and wrap-
ping l in a piece of canvass, I began to think of
making another raft; but while I was reparing this,
I saw the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise,
and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the
shore; it appeared to be in vain to make a raft with
the wind off shore, and that it was my business to
before the tide began, or I might not be able to reach
the shore at all: accordingly, I let myself down into
the water, and swam across the channel which lay be-
60 nonmst cnosos.
culty enough, partly with the weight of the things I
had about me, and partly the roughness of the water,
for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.
But I was at home in my little tent, where I lay
with all my wealth about me Very secure; it blew
very hard all that night, and in the morning, when
I looked out, behold no more of the ship was to be
‘ seen. I was surprised, but recovered with the satis-
60 nonmst cnosos.
any diligence, to get every thing out of her that
could be useful to me: and that there was little left
in her that I could bring away. I now gave over any
more thought of the ship, or of any thing out of her,
except what might drive on shore from the wreck, as
divers pieces afterwards did; but they were of little
use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about se-
curing myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild casts, if any were in the island; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this,
and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should

make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth.
and, in short, I resolved upon both; the manner and
description of which I will give an account of.
I soon found this place was not for my settlement,
particularly because it was low moorish ground near
the sea, which I thought would not be wholesome,
and more particularly because there was no fresh
nonmsox cnvsos. 61
and more convenient s at of groimd.
I consulted several t ings in my situation, which
nonmsox cnvsos. 61
fresh water; secondly, shelter from the heat of the
sun ; thirdly, security from man or wild beast ; fourth-
ly, a view of the sea, that if God sent any ship in
sight, I might not lose any advantage for my deliv-
erance, for which I was not willing to banish all hopes.
In search for a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was as steep as a house-side, so that
nothing could come down upon me from the top.
On the side of this rock there was a hollow place,
worn a little way in, like the entrance or door of a
cave, but there was no cave or way into the rock.
nonmsox cnvsos. 61
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was
not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end it descended irregularly every way down into the
low grounds by the sea-side. It was on the N. N.
W. side of the hill, so that it was sheltered from the
heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or
thereabouts, which in those countries is near setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in
semi-diameter, from its beginning and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of stron
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stoo
nonmsox cnvsos. 61
r'_,________’e
62 nonrssoa' causes.
the top; the two rows stood about six inches apart.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut
in the ship, and laid them in rows upon one another,
within the circle between the two rows of stakes, up
to the top. placing other stakes in the inside, leaning
against them, about two feet and a half high, like a
sgur to a post, and this fence was so strong that nei-
t er man nor beast could get into it. This cost me a
great deal of time and labour, especiall to cut the
piles, bring them, and drive them into t e earth.
The entrance to this place I made to be, not b a
door, but by a ladder over the top; which ladder, w en
I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I was com—
62 nonrssoa' causes.
and conse uently slept secure in the night, which,
otherwise could not have done, though, as it ap-
peared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution.
62 nonrssoa' causes.
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, and I made a large tent also, which, to
preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent here, I made double, viz. one
smaller tent within, and one large tent above it, and
covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which
I had brought on shore from among the sails.
And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed that
I had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was
a very good one, and belonging to the mate.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every
thing that would spoil by the wet ; and having thus
enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which
till now was left open. and so passed by a ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
out through my tent, I laid them up within the tent
in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground
within about a foot and a half, and thus I made me a

cave just behind my tent, which served for a cellar.
It cost me much labour, and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection. At the same
time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for
setting up my tent and making the cave, that a storm
aonnssox causes. 63
of lightning happened, and after that a clap of thun-
der, as is natura ly the effect of it. I was not so much
surprised with the lightning, as with the thought
which darted into my mind :—-0 my powder! M
heart sunk within me, to think that at one blast a
my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my
defence only, but the providing my food, as I thought,
entirely depended. I was nothing near so anxious
about my own danger, though had the powder took
aonnssox causes. 63
Such impression did this make u on me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside a my works, my
building and fortifying, and applied myself to make
bags and boxes to separate my powder, and to keep
it a little and a little in a parcel, in hopes, that what-
aonnssox causes. 63
and to keep it so apart, that it should not be possible
aonnssox causes. 63
in about a fortnight, and my powder, which in all
was about 1401b. weight, was divided into no less than
a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been
wet, I did not fear any danger from that, so I placed
it in my new cave, which I called my kitchen, and
the rest I hid in the rocks, that no wet might get to
it, carefully marking where I laid it.
While this was doing, I went out once every day
with my gun, to divert myself, and to see if I could
aonnssox causes. 63
aonnssox causes. 63
went out, I discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that
64 aonmson causoa.
them, but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting
but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon hap-
pened, for after I had found their haunts a little, I
thus laid wait for them: having observed, if they
saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away in a. terrible fright; but
if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon
the rocks, they took no notice of me; hence I con-
cluded, that by the osition of their optics, their
eight was so directed ownward, that they did not
readily see objects above them; so I always climbed
the rocks to get above them, and then had a fair mark.
64 aonmson causoa.
goat which had a little kid b her, she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily; ut when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her till I came and took
her u , and when I carried the old one upon my
shoul ers, the kid followed me quite to my enclosure;
upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in
my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have
bred it up tame; but it would not eat, so I was forced '
to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me
64 aonmson causoa.
saved my provisions (my bread especially) as much as
I possibly could.
64 aonmson causoa.
64 aonmson causoa.
fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as also how I
enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, I
shall give a full account of it in its place; but I must
64 aonmson causoa.
thoughts of living, which were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as
I was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm quite out of the
course of our intended voyage, and a great way, viz.
some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary course

of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to con-
sider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this
desolate place, and in this desolate manner, I should
end my life. The tears would run plentifull down
ROBINSON caoson'. 65
times I would expostulate with myself, why Provi-
dence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable, without he] ,
abandoned, and so entirely depressed, that it c0 (I
hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life P
But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me; and parti-
cularly one day, walking with my gun in my hand
by the sea-side, I was very pensive about my present
condition. when reason put in, expostulating with me
thus:—Well, you are in a. desperate condition, it is
true, but pray remember, where are the rest of you '1’
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat 1’ where
are the ten? why were they not saved, and you lost F
why were you singled out ? is it better to be here or
there 1’ And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are
to be considered with the good that is in them, and
with what worse attended them.
Then it occurred to me, how well I was furnished
for my subsistence, and what would have been my
case, if it had not happened, which was a hundred
ROBINSON caoson'. 65
ROBINSON caoson'. 65
shore, that I had time to get all things out of her ?
\Vhat would have been my case, if I had been to have
ROBINSON caoson'. 65
without the necessaries of life, or any means to ro-
cure them? Particularly, what would I have one
without a gun, ammunition, or tools to make any
thing, or to work with? without clothes, bedding, a
tent, or any coverings P And now that I had all these
ROBINSON caoson'. 65
vide myself, so as to live without my gun when my
E
ammunition was spent, so that I had a tolerable view
of subsisting without any want as long as I lived, for
I considered from the beginning how I would provide
for the accidents’that might happen, and for the time
to come, not only after my ammunition should be
spent, but even after my health or strength should
eca .
I dbnfess I had not then entertained any notion of
my ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean
my powder being blown up by lightning; and this
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it
lightened and thundered, as I observed just now. .
And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation
of a scene of silent life, such, erhaps, as was never
heard of in the world before, Ilshall take it from its
beginning, and continue in its order. It was, by
my account, the 30th of September, when, in the
66 nosrnson causes.
island, when the sun being to us, in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my head; for I reck-
oned myself by observation, to be in the latitude of 9
degrees 22 minutes north of the Line.
After I had been here about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts, that I should lose my reck-
oning of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and
should even forget the Sabbath days from the work-
ing days; but to prevent this, I out it with m knife
upon a large post, in capital letters, and, ma ing it
into a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I
66 nosrnson causes.
Sept. 1659. Upon the sides of this square post I out
every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh
66 nosrnson causes.
day of the month as long again as the long one,‘ and
thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe that among
many things which I brought oil" the ship in the

several voyages, which I made to it, I got several
things of less value, but not at all less useful to me,
which I-omitted setting down before, as pens, ink,
and paper, several parcels from the captain s, mate’s,
gunner’s, and carpenter's keeping, three or four com-
passes, some mathematical instruments, dials, per-
spectives, charts, and books of navigation, all of which
I huddled together, whether I might want them or
no; also I found three good Bibles, which came to me
in my cargo from England, and which I had packed
up among my things, some Portuguese books also,
and among them two or three Popish prayer-books,
and several other books, which I carefully secured.
And I must not forget that we had in the ship a dog
and two cats, of whose eminent history I may have
occasion to say something in its place, for I carried
both the cats with me, and as for the dog, he jumped
out of the ship, and swam on shore to me the day
nonnvson cnosoa. 67
trusty servant to me many years. I wanted nothing
that he could fetch me, nor any company that he
could make up to me, I only wanted to have him talk
to me, but that he could not do. As I observed be-
fore, I afterwards found pens, ink, and paper, which I
husbanded to the utmost: and while my ink lasted,
I ke 1. things very exact; but after that was gone, I
could not; for I could not make any ink by any means
that I could devise.
I wanted many things ; ink was one, also a spade,
pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth;
needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned
nonnvson cnosoa. 67
This want of tools made my work go on heavily,
nonnvson cnosoa. 67
little pale, or surrounded habitation; the piles, which
were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more in
bringing home, so that I spent sometimes two days
in cutting and bringing home one of these posts, and
a third day in driving it into the ground; for which
68 ROBINSON causes.
the iron crows, which, however, though I found it,
yet made driving those posts very laborious and
tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tedi-
ousness of an thing I had to do, having time enough
to do it in i’ l or had I any other employment, that I
could foresee, except seeking for food.
I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and circumstances, and I drew up the state of my af-
fairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any
that were to come after me, for I was like to have but
few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring
upon them, and afflicting my mind; and as my rea-
son began now to master my despondency, I com-
forted myself as well as I could, and set the good
against the evil, that I might have something to dis-
tinguish my case from worse; and I stated it ve
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts
enjoyed, against the miseries I suffered, thus :—
EVIL- I GOOD.

I am cast upon a horrible
desolate island, void of all
hope of recovery.
I am singled out, and se~
parated, as it were, from all
the world, to be miserable.
I am divided from man-
kind, a solitary one, banish-
ed from human society.
I have no clothes to cover
me.
I am without any defence
But I am alive, and not
drowned, as all my ship's
company was.
But I am singled out, too,
from all the ship’s crew, to
be spared from death ; and
he that miraculously saved
me from death, can deliver
me from this condition.
But I am not starved, and
perishing on a barren place,
68 ROBINSON causes.
But I am in a hot climate
where, if I had clothes, I
could hardly wear them.
But I am cast on an island
or means to resist any vio- where I see no wild beasts,
lence of man or beast. to hurt me, as I saw on the
coast of Africa; and what
if I had been shipwrecked
there ?
I have no soul to speak to, But God wonderfully sent
or relieve me. the ship near enough to the
shore, that I have gotten
out so many necessary
things as will either supply
my wants, or enable me to
supply myself, even as long
as I live.
Upon the whole, there was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce a condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or
something positive, to be thankful for in it; and let
this stand as a direction from the experience of the
miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may
aosrxsox causes. 69
and to set, in the descriptién of good and evil, on the
credit 5 do of the account.
Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and giving over looking out to sea, to see
if I could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things,
I began to apply myself to accommodate my way of
living, and to make things as easy to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation, which was
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
strong pale of osts and cables, but I might rather
call it a wall, or I raised a kind of wall up against
it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside, and
after some time (I think it was a lyear and a half) I
raised rafters from it, leaning to t 0 rock, and thatch-
ed or covered it with boughs of trees, and such things
as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at
some times of the your very violent.
I have observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave behind me; but which,
70 ROBINSON causes.
place; I had no room to turn myself; so I set myself
to enlarge my cave, and worked farther into the earth,
for it was-a loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to
the labour I bestowed upon it; and so, when I found
I was pretty safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked
sideways to the right hand into the rock, and then
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and
made me a door to come out on the outside of my pale
70 ROBINSON causes.
This gave not only egress and regress, as it was a
back way to my tent, and to my storehouse, but gave
me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such
things as I most wanted, particularly a chair and a ta-
ble, for without these I was not able to enjoy the
few comforts I had in the world; I could not write or
eat, with much pleasure without a. table.
So I went to work; and as reason is the substance
and original of the mathematics, so by stating and
squaring every thing by reason, and by making the
most rational judgment of things, every man may be,
in time, master of every mechanic art. I had never
handled a tool in my life, and yet, in time, by labour,
application, and contrivance, I found, at last, that I
could have made any thing, if I had had tools ; how-
ever, I made abundance of things, even without tools,
and some with only an adze and a hatchet, which,
perhaps, were never made that way before, and that
70 ROBINSON causes.
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set
70 ROBINSON causes.
with my axe, till I had brought it as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true,
that by this method I could make but one board out
of the whole tree ; but this I had no remedy for but
patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal
of time and labour which it took me to make a plank
or board; but my time or labour was little worth, and
Bo it was as well employed one way as another.
nonmsorr causoa. ' 71
and this I did out of the short pieces of board that I
brought from the ship; but when I had wrought out
some boards, I made largo shelves of a foot and a half
broad, one over another, all along one side of my cave,
to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work, and to sep-
arate every thing at large in their places, that I might
easily come at them; also, I knocked pieces into the
wall of the rock to hang my guns, and all things that
would hang up.
So that had my ,cave been to be seen, it looked like
a general magazine of all necessary things ; and I had
every thing so ready to my hand, that it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order, and
nonmsorr causoa. ' 71
And now I began to kee a journal of every day’s.
nonmsorr causoa. ' 71
an in too much discomposure of mind, and my jour-
nal would have been full of many dull things. For
example, I must have said thus :—September the 30th,
After I got on shore, and had escaped drowning, in-
stead of being thankful to God for my deliverance,
nonmsorr causoa. ' 71
water which was gotten into my stomach, and recov-
ering myself a little, I ran about the shore, wringing
my hands, and beating my head and face, exclaimin
at my misery, and crlying out, I was undone! undone .
till, tired and faint, was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, but durst not sleep for fear of being
evour .
Some days after having been on board the ship, and
got all I could out of her, I could not forbear getting
to the top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea,
in hope of seeing a ship, then fancied, at a vast distance,
I spied a sail, pleased myself with the hopes of it, and
then, after looking steadily till almost blind, lost it,
and sat down and wept like a child, and increased my
misery by my folly.
But having got over these things, and having set-
tled my household stuff and habitation, made me a
table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I
could, I began to keep my journal, of which I shall
give you the copy (though in it will be told all these
particulars over again,) as long as it lasted, for at last
aving no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.
‘ THE JOURNAL.
September 30. 1659.——-I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm
72 nonmsos cnvsos.
island, which I called the Island of Despair, all the
rest of the ship’s company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.
72 nonmsos cnvsos.
at my dismal circumstances, viz. I had neither house,
food, clothes, weapon, or place to £1 to, and nothing
but death before me, that I shoul be devoured by
savages, or starved to death for want of food. At
night, I sle t in a tree, for fear of wild creatures.
72 nonmsos cnvsos.
with the high tide, and was driven on shore again
much nearer the island, which, as it was some com-
fort on one hand, so, on the other hand, it renewed
my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined,
if we had all stayed on board, might have saved the
ship, or, at least they would not all have been drown-
ed; and that, had the men been saved, we might,
perhaps, have built us aboat out of the ruins of the
ship, to have carried us to some other part of the
World. §eeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the
sand as near as I could, and then swam on board.
This day continued rainy, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of Oct. to the 24th.—-All these days
entirely spent in making several voyages to get all I

could out of the ship, which I brought on shore.
Much rain also in these days, though with some in-
tervals of fair weather; but, it seems, this was the
rainy season.
Oct 24th.—I overset my raft, and all the goods I
had got upon it, but being in shoal water, and the
nonnnox cnvsos. - 73
when the tide was out.
Oct. 25.—It rained all night, and all day, with
some wind, during which time the ship broke in
pieces, and was no more to be seen, except the wreck
of her, and that only at low water. I spent this da
in covering and securing the goods which I had savedz
that the rain might not spoil them.
Octv 26.—I walked about the shore almost all day
nonnnox cnvsos. - 73
cerned to secure myself from any attack in the night,
nonnnox cnvsos. - 73
upon a proper place under a. rock, and marked out a
semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to
nonnnox cnvsos. - 73
piles, lined within with cable, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st in the morning, I went out into the island
with my gun to see for some food, when I killed a
she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I af-
terwards killed, because it would not eat.
Nov. l.—I set up my tent under a rock, and la
nonnnox cnvsos. - 73
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upen.
Nov. 2—1 set up all my chests and boards. and the
ieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them
ormed a fence around me a little within the place I
nonnnox cnvsos. - 73
Nov. 3.-I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon, went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4.—This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep and
time of diversion; viz. every morning I walked out
’with my gun, for two or three hours, if it did not
rain; then worked till about eleven o'clock; then ate
what I had to live on; and from twelve to two, I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot, and
then in the evening to work again. The workin
part of this day and the next were wholly employed
74 ROBINSON causes.
Nov. 5.——This day I went abroad with my gun and.
dog, and killed a wild cat, her skin pretty soft. but
74 ROBINSON causes.
I took otf the skins and reserved them. Coming
back, by the sea-shore, saw many sorts of sea-
fowls which I did not understand; but was surprised
to see two or three seals, which, while I was gazing
at, got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6.--After my morning walk, I went to work
74 ROBINSON causes.
my liking; and I soon learned to mend it.
Nov. 7.———Settled fair weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th,
10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday,
according to my reckoning,) I spent in making a
chair, and, with much ado, brought it to a tolerable
shape, but never to please me; and in the making I
ulled it to pieces several times. Note—I soon neg-
ected keeping my Sundays, for omitting my mark
for them on in post, I forgot which was which.
Nov. 13.-— his day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
made me fearful of my powder. \Vhen it was over,
I resolved to se arate my powder into as many little
parcels as possi le, to prevent danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16.—These three da 9 I spontinmaking
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about
a pound, or tWO, of powder; and so putting the pow-

der in. I stowed it away in places as secure and re-
mote from one another as possible. On one of these
three days I killed a large bird that was good to eat,
but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17.—I began to dig behind my tent into the
rock, to make room for In further conveniency.
Three things I much wante for this work, viz. a
pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow, or basket.
As for the pick-axe, I made use of the iron crows,
which were proper enough, though heavy; but the
next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so abso-
lutely necessary, that I could do nothing effectually
without it, but what kind of one I knew not.
Nov. 18,—The next day, in searching the woods, I
found a tree of that wood, which, in the Brazils, the
call the iron-tree, for its great hardness; of thisI
nonrusou causoa. 75
it was very heavy. The excessive hardness of the
wood made me a long while u n this machine, but
nonrusou causoa. 75
form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped
liked ours in England, only that the broad part having
no iron shod upon it at bottom, would not last me so
long; however, it served well enough for the uses
which I put it to. I still wanted a basket, or wheel-
barrow; a basket I could not make by. any means,
having no twigs that would bend to make wicker-
ware; and, as to the wheel-barrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel: but that I had no notion of,
nor did I know how to go about it, so I gave it over:
and so, for carrying away the earth which I dug out
of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the
labourers carry mortar in to serve the bricklayers.
nonrusou causoa. 75
yet this, and the shovel, and the vain attempt to make
a wheel-barrow, took me up no less than four days:
always excepting m morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom fai ed, and nearly always brought
nonrusou causoa. 75
Nov. 23.-—My other work having stood still because
76 ROBINSON cansoa.
Went on, war ing every day as my time and strength
allowed. I spent eighteen days in widening and
dee ening my cave, that it might hold my goods com-
mo iously. During all this time, I wor ed to make
this room so spacious as to accommodate me as a ware-
house, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for
a lodging, I kept to the tent, except in the wet sea-
son it rained so hard, that I could not keep myself
dry; which caused me to cover the place with long
poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock,
76 ROBINSON cansoa.
like a thatch. >
Dec. 10.—I began now to think my cave or vault
76 ROBINSON cansoa.
fell down from the top and one side, so muc that, in
short, it frighted me, and not without reason too; for
if I had been under it, I should not have wanted a
grave-digger. Upon this disaster, I had a great deal
of work to do over again; for I had the loose earth
to ca out, and the ceiling to prop up, so that I
might e sure no more would come down.
Dec. ll.—This day I got two shores, or posts,
pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of boards
76 ROBINSON cansoa.
and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing
in rows, served me for artitions to part oil" my house.
Dec. 16.—From this ay to the 20th I placed shelves,
and knocked nails into the posts, to hang every thing
up that could be hung up.
Dec. 23.—N0w I carried every thing into the cave,
and began to furnish m house, and to set up some
pieces of boards like a esser, to order my victuals
upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me.
Made another table.
Dec. 24, 25.—Much rain, and no stirring out
Dec. 26.—No rain, and the earth rather cooler than
before, and pleusanter. '
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and lamed another
caught it. and led it home in a string, and bound and
splintered its broken leg, N.B,—-I took such care of
it that it lived, and the leg grew well, and as stron
as ever. By nursing it so long it grew tame, and feg
upon the little green at my door, and would not go
ROBINSON causos. 77
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have
food when my powder and shot were spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30.—Great heats and no breeze, so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evenings
for food. This time I spent in putting all my things
in order within doors. '
Jan. l.—Very hot still; but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going farther into the val-
leys, which lay to the centre of the island, I found
there were plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and
hard to come at: however, I resolved to try if I could
not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan 2.—Aoeordingly the next day I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats, but they all faced
about upon the dog, and he knew his dangertoo well,
for he would not come near them.
Jan 3.—I began my fence or wall, which, to pre-
vent attack, I resolved to make very thick and strong.
[N\B.—This wall being described before, it is suf-
ROBINSON causos. 77
ROBINSON causos. 77
and perfecting this wall, though it was only 24 yards
long, being a half circle~ from one place in the rock to
another place eight yards from it, the door of the cave
being in the centre behind it.]
All this time I worked so hard, the rains hindering
me man days, no. , sometimes weeks together: but
I thong t I she never be secure till this wall was
78 nonnzson causes.
every thing was done with, especially bringing piles
out of the woods, and driving them into the ound,
for I made them much bigger than was needed?-
78 nonnzson causes.
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I per-
suaded myself, that if any people were to come on
shore there, they would not perceive any thing like a
habitation: and it was very well I did so, as may be
observed hereafter, upon a remarkable occasion.
I made my rounds in the woods for game every day,
when the rain permitted me, and made frequent dis-
coveries in these walks of something or other to my
advantage. I found a kind of wild pigeons, which
built not as wood- igeons in a tree, but rather as
house-pigeons, in t e holes of the rocks; and taking
some young ones, I endeavoured to bring them up
tame, and did so; but when they grew older, the a
78 nonnzson causes.
ing them, for I had nothing to give them; however,
I frequently found their nests, and got their, young
ones, which were very good meat.
78 nonnzson causes.
78 nonnzson causes.
sible for me to make, as indeed as to some of them it
was: for instance, I could never make a cask, to be
hooped. I had a small runlet or two, but I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them,
though I spent many weeks about it; I could neither
put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to one
another, as to make them hold water, so I gave that
pThen I was at a great loss for candles, so that when
it was dark, which was generally by seven o’clock, I
was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of
bees wax with which I made candles in my African
adventure, but I had none of that now: the onl
remedy I had was, that when I had killed a goat,

saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of clay,
which I baked in the sun, and a wick of some oakurn,
I made a lamp; and this gave me light, though not
a clear steady light like a candle. In the middle of
all my labours in rummaging my things, I found a
nonnvson causes. 79
with corn, for feeding poultry, not for this voyage,
but before, when the ship came from Lisbon ; what
little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all
devoured b the rats, and nothing in it but husks and
dust; and eing wishful to have the\bag for some
other use (I think to put powder in, when I divided
it for fear of the lightning,) I shook the husks of corn
nonnvson causes. 79
rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice
of any thing, and not so much remembering that I
had thrown any there; when, about a month after, or
thereabouts, I saw some stalks of something green
shooting up on the ground, which I fancied might be
some plant, I had not seen; but I was surprised, and
perfectly astonished, when, after a little longer time,
saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were
perfect green barley, the same as English barley.
It is impossible to express my astonishment on this
occasion; I had hitherto had very few notions of re-
ligion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of
any thing that had befallen me, but as a chance, or,
as we lightly say, what leases God; without so much
as inquiring into the en of Providence in these things,
or his order in governing events in the world; but,
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which was
not proper for corn, and especially that I knew not
how it came there, it startled me, and I began to sug-
gest that God had miraculously caused this grain to
grow, without any hel of seed sown, purely for my
sustenance in that miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes, and I began to bless myself that such
a prodigy of nature should happen upon my account;
and this was the more strange to me, because I saw
near it still, all along by the side of the rock, some
other straggling stalks which proved to be stalks of
rice, and which I know, because I had seen it grow in
Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of
80 ROBINSON causoa.
that there was more in e lace, I went all over that
part of the island where I had been before, peering
in every corner, and under every rock, to see for more
80 ROBINSON causoa.
me that I had shaken the bag of chicken’s meat out
in' that place, and then the wonder began to cease;
and I must confess my thankfulness to Providence
began to abate, upon my discovering that all this was
nothing but what was common, though I ought to
have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen
Providence as if it had been miraculous; for it was
really the work of Providence as to me, that should
appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn should re-
main unspoiled (when the rats had destroyed all the
rest,) as if it had been dropped from heaven; and that
I should throw it out in that particular place, where,
in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately ;
whereas, if I had thrown it any where else, it had
been burnt up and destroyed.
I carefull saved the ears of this corn, you ma be
sure, in their season, about the end of June, as re-
solved to sow them again, hoping in time to have suf-
80 ROBINSON causoa.
the fourth year that I would eat the least grain of this
corn, and then but sparingly, for I lost all I sowed
80 ROBINSON causoa.
I sowed just before the d season, so that it never
came up as it would have one.
The tWenty or thirty stalks of rice, I reserved with
the same care, and whose use was of t e same kind,
viz. to make me bread, or rather food: for I found
ways to cook it without baking, though I did that
also, after some time. But to return to my journal.
I worked excessive hard three or four months to
get my wall done: and the 14th of April I closed it
up, contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over
a wall by a. ladder, that there might be no sign on the
outside of my habitation. _
nonluson causes. 81
it to the top and then pulled it up after me, and let
it down on the inside. This was a complete enclosure '
to me: for within I had room enough, and nothing
nonluson causes. 81
mount my wall.
nonluson causes. 81
had almost had all my labour overthrown at once,
and myself killed. As I was busy in the inside of it,
behind my tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I was
terribly frightened; for all on a sudden, the earth came
tumbling down from the roof of my cave, and from the
edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily
scared, but thought nothing of what really was the
cause, and, for fear I should be buried in it, I ran to
my ladder; and, not thinking myself safe there, got
over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I
expected might roll down uFon me. I was no sooner
nonluson causes. 81
ble earthquake; for the ground I stood on shook three
times, at about eight minutes distance, with three such
shocksas would have overturned the strongest build-
ing upon the earth; and a great piece of rock, which
stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell
down with such a terrible noise as I never heard in
all my life. Also the sea was put into a violent mo-
1“
tion by it, and I believe the shocks were stronger
under the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, or discoursed with any one that had,
that I was like one dead or mangled; and the motion
of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that was
tossed at sea; but the noise of the falling of the rock
awakened me, as it were. and rousing me from the
82 aonrnson cnusos.
I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon
my tent, and all my household goods, and burying all
at once; and this sunk my soul within me again.
After the third shock was over, I began to take
- courage, but had not heart enough to get over my
well again, for fear of being buried alive; but still sat
upon the ground, greatly cast down, and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do. All this while I had not
the least serious religious thought, nothing but the
common “Lord, have mercy upon me!” and when it
was over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, it grew cloudy, as if it would
rain; and, in less than an hour, it blew a most dread-
ful hurricane. The sea was suddenly covered with
foam and froth, the shore was covered with the breach
of the water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and
a terrible storm it was; this held about three hours,
and then began to abate; and in two hours more it
was calm, and began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much
82 aonrnson cnusos.
into my thoughts that these winds and rain, being
the effects of the earth uake, the earthquake itself
was spent and over, and might venture into my cave
again. With this thought my spirits began to revive,
and I went in, and sat down in my tent, but the rain
was so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten
down by it, I was forced to go into my cave, though
very much afraid, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to cut a hole through my
nonrssort cannon. 83
nonrssort cannon. 83
been in my cave some time, and found no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, I began to be more com-
posed; and to support my spirits, I Went to my little
store, and took a small sup of rum, which I did very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more.
It rained all that night, and most of the next day,
so that I could not stir abroad ; but, my mind being
more composed, I began to think what I had best do;
for if the island was subject to earthquakes, there
would be no living in a cave, but I must try to build
a little hut, in an open place, which I might surround
with a wall, and so make myself secure from wild
beasts or men, but concluded, if I stayed where I was,
should be buried again. ,
With these thoughts, I resolved to move my tent,
from the place where it stood, just under the hanging
precipice of the hill, and, which, if it should be shaken
again, would fall upon my tent. And I spent the
two next days, the 19th and 20th of April, in con-
triving where and how to remove my habitation. The
fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never
slept in quiet; but still, when I looked about and saw
how every thing was put in order, how pleasantly
concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made
me very loath to remove.
It occurred to me, that it would require a vast deal
of time to do this, and that I must be content where
I was, till I had formed a. camp for myself, and had
secured it so as to remove to it. So, with this reso-
lution, I composed myself for a time, and resolved to
go to work, with all speed, to build a wall with piles
and cables, &0. in a. circle as before, and set my tent
up in it; but that I would stay where it was till it
nonrssort cannon. 83
April 22.—-I began to consider of means to put this
resolve in execution; but I was at a great loss about
my tools. I had three large axes, and many hatchets,
but with much cho ping and cutting knott wood,
they were all full 0 notches, and dull; and t ough I
had a grindstone, I couldnot turn it, and grind my
tools too. At length, I contrived a wheel, with a
string to turn it with m foot, that I might have both
my hands at libérty. ote.——I had not seen any such
thing in England, or at least not to take notice now
it was done, though since I have observed, it is very
common there. This machine cost me a full week’s
Work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29.—These two whole days I took up in
grinding tools; my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
April 30.—Having perceived my bread had been
low a great while, I reduced myself to one biscuit
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May l.-—-In the morning, looking towards the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
sea-shore, looking like a cask: when I came to it, I
found a small barrel, and several pieces of the wreck
of the ship, driven on shore by the hurricane, and
looking towards the wreck, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I ex-
amined the barrel, and found it was a barrel of gun-
powder, but it had taken water, and the owder was
caked as hard as a stone. I rolled it fart er on shore
for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near
as I could to the wreck, to look for more.
“Then I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed: the forecastle, which lay before buried in
the sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the
stern, which was broken to pieces, and parted from
the rest by the force of the sea, soon after vI had left
rummaging her, was tossed u , and cast on one side;
and the sand was thrown so igh on that side next
the stern, that I could walk up to her when the tide
nosmsox causos. 85
cluded it must have been done by the earthquake,
and by it the ship was more broken open than former-
ly, so many things came daily on shore, which the sea
had loosened.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design
of removing my habitation; I busied myselfmightily
that day especially, in searching whether I could get
into the ship; but I found nothin was to be ex ected
of that kind, for all the inside of t e ship was 0 oked
up with sand. However, I resolved to pull every
thing to pieces that I could of the ship, concludgif
that every thing I could get from her would be use .
May 3.—I began with my saw, and cut a piece of
a beam through, which I thought held some of the
upger part, or quarter-deck, together; and when I
he cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest, but the
tide coming in, I was obliged to give over.
nosmsox causos. 85
that durst eat of, till I was weary of the sport, when
'ust going to leave 05‘, I caught a young dolphin. I
(1 made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had
nosmsox causos. 85
I cared to eat; which I dried in the sun, and ate dry.
May 5.—~Worked on the wreck, out another beam
nosmsox causos. 85
the decks, which I tied together, and made swim to
nosmsox causos. 85
May 6.—Worked on the wreck, got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron work.
May 7.—Went to the wreck again, but with an in-
tent not to work; but found the weight of the wreck
had broken itself down, the beams being cut, that
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the
inside of the hold lay so open, that I could see into
it ; but almost full of water and sand,
May 8.——Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear
of the water or sand. I wrenched open two planks
aud brought them on shore also with the tide. I left
the iron crow on the wreck for the next day.
May 9.—Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, and loosened them with the crow; but could
not break them up. I felt also the roll of English
lead, but it was too heavy to move.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, l4.-—Went every day to the
wreck and got many pieces of timber and boards, or
planks, and two or three hundred weight of iron.
May l5.—I carried two hatchets, to try if I could
86 ROBINSON onusoa.
of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as
it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not
make any blow to drive the hatchet.
May 16.-—It blew hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water ; but I
stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that
the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.
May 17,—I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me; but re-
solved to see what they were, and found it was a piece
of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24.—Every day to this, I worked on the wreck,
and loosened some things so much with the crew,
86 ROBINSON onusoa.
two seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the
shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of
timber, and a hogshead of Brazil pork; but the salt
water and sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food; and, by this
time, I had gotten timber and plank, and iron work
enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how;
and also I got at severa times, and in separate pieces,
near one hundred weight of the sheet lead.

June 16.—Going down to the sea-side, I found a
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not any do-
fect of the place, or scarcity; for, had I happened to
be on the other side of the island, I might have had
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards;
but, perhaps, had paid clear enough for them.
June l7.—I spent in cooking the turtle, I found
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
that time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
fowls, since I landed in this horrible place.
June 18.—Rained all day, and I stayed within. The
rain at this time felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June l9.—Very ill, and shiv'en'ng, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20.—No rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverish.
June 2l.—Very ill; fn'ghted almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
storm 05 Hull; but scarce knew what I said, or why;
my thoughts being all confused.
June 22.-—A little better; but under dreadful ap-
prehensions of sickness.
June 23.--Very had again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-ache.
June 24.——Much better.
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
it
J'une 26.—Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak; however,
ROBINSON cnrrson. 87
home, and broiled some, and ate it.
June 27.--The ague again so violent, that I lay a-
bed all day, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready
to perish with thirst, but so weak. I had not strength
to stand up, or get myself any water to drink; prayed
to God again, but was li ht-headed; and when I was
not, I was so ignorant, at I knew not what to say:
only I lay, and cried, “Lord, look upon me! Lord
ity me! Lord, have mercy upon me!” I suppose
88 nonrnsox cat'son.
wearing 01f, fell asleep, and did not wake till far in
the night. When I waked, I found myself much
refreshed, but weak, and exceedingly thirsty; how-
ever, as I had no water in my whole habitation, I
was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep
again. In this second sleep I had this terrible
dream :—
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
alter the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend
88 nonrnsox cat'son.
and light upon the ground. He was all over as bright
88 nonrnsox cat'son.
wards him; his countenance was most inexpressibly
dreadful; impossible for words to describe; when he
stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the
cart trembled, just as it had done before the earth-
quake, and all the air looked to my apprehension, as
88 nonrnsox cat'son.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forwards towards me, with a. long spear or
weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came
to a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me,
or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to
express the terror of it; all that I can say I under-
stood was this:—“ Seeing all these things have not
brou ht thee to repentance, now thou shalt die." At
whic words, I thought he lifted up the spear that
was in his hand, to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that I should be able to describe the horrors of
my soul at this terrible vision; nor is it possible to
describe the impression that remained upon my mind
when I awoke, and found it was but a dream.
I had, alas! no Divine knowledge; what I had re-
ceived by the good instruction of my father, was worn
out by eight years of seafaring wickedness, and con-
stant conversation with persons like myself, wicked
to the last degree. I do not remember that I had, in
all that time, one thought to look to God, or to pro-
rourysox causos. 89
stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or conscience
of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, and I was just
like the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creatures
among our common sailors, not having the least
sense either of the fear of God in dangers, or of thank-
fulness in deliverance.
In relating what is already past in my story, this
will be more easily believed, when I shall add, that,
through all the variety of miseries that had befallen
me, I never had so much as one thought of its being
the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for
my past sins, my rebellious conduct to m father, or
my present sins which were grbat. When {was on the
desperate ex dition on the desert shores of Africa, I
never thoug twhat would become of me, or prayed
God to direct me whither I should go, and keeeip me
from the danger, which ap arently surround me,
from voracious creatures and) cruel savages. I acted
like a mere brute, from the principles of nature, and
by the dictates of common sense only, and indeed
hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and hon-
ourabl with, as well as charitably, I had not the least
t ulness in m thoughts; when, again, I was
shipwrecked, ruin , and in danger of drowning on
this island, I was as far from remorse on looking on
it as ajudgment, I only said to myself often, that I
was an unfortunate dog, and born to be miserable.
90 ROBINSON cause]:_
all my ship’s crew drowned, and myself spared, I
was surprised with some transports of soul, which,
had the grace of God assisted, might have led to true
thankfulness; but it ended where it began, in a mere
90 ROBINSON cause]:_
90 ROBINSON cause]:_
of the hand which had singled me out to be preserved,
when the rest were destroyed, or an inquiry why
Providence had been thus merciful to me: even just
the same joy which seamen generally have, after hav-
ing got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they
drown in the next bowl of punch, and forget almost
as soon as it is over.
Even when I was afterward, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on
this dreadful place out of the reach of human kind,
out of all hopes of relief, or prospect of redemptioni
as soon as I saw a probability of living, and that
should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense
of my affliction wore 0E, and I began to be very easy,
applied myself to the works proper for my reserva-
tion and supply, and was far from being a icted at
my state, as a judgment from God against me,—these
thoughts very seldom entered my head.
90 ROBINSON cause]:_
90 ROBINSON cause]:_
ness, as long as I thought it had something miracu-
lous in it; but as soon as that thought was removed,
all the impression wore off also. Even the earthquake,
though nothing could be more terrible in its nature,
or more immediately directing to the invisible power
which alone directs such things, yet no sooner was
90 ROBINSON cause]:_
off also.
But now when I began to be sick, and a view of the
miseries of death came before me; when my spirits
‘-
began to sink under a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted by the violence of the fever ; conscience,
that had slept so long, began to awake, and I reproach-
ed myself with my past life.
nosmson CRUSOI. 91
third day of my distemper, and the violence of the
fever, and the reproaches of my conscience, extorted
some words from me, like praying to God, though I
cannot say they were either a prayer attended with
desires, or with he es; it was rather the voice of fear
and distress; my t oughts were confused, my convic-
tions great, and the horror of dying in such a misera-
ble condition, raised vapours in my head; and in this
confusion of soul, I knew not what my tongue ex res-
sed; but it was rather exclamations, such as “ 0rd,
what a miserable creature am I ! if I should be sick,
I shall die for want of help; and what will become
of me l” Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I
could say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father came
to in mind, and presently his prediction ; viz. That,
if I 'd take this foolish step, God would not bless
nosmson CRUSOI. 91
lected his counsel, when there might be none to assist
in my recovery. “ Now," said I, aloud, “ my dear
father’s words are come to pass; God‘s justice has
overtaken me, and I have none to help or to hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had put me
in a station wherein I might have been happy and
easy, but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to
know the blessing of it from my parents; I left them
to mourn over mysfolly, and now I am left to mourn
the effects of it. I refused their help, who would have
lifted me into the world, and made every thing easy
nosmson CRUSOI. 91
too great for nature to support, and no help, no com-
fort, no advice.” Then cried out, “ Lord, be my
help, for I am in great distress!"
92 ROBINSON cavsos.
I had made for many 'ears.
June 28.—I-Iaving een somewhat refreshed with
92 ROBINSON cavsos.
got up, and the terror of my disease was very great,
92 ROBINSON cavsos.
the next day; and now was my time to at something
to refresh and support myself when I s ould be ill;
92 ROBINSON cavsos.
bottle with water, and set it upon a table near my bed,
and to take oil the chill or agueish disposition of the
water, I put a quarter of a pint of rum into it ; then
92 ROBINSON cavsos.
but could eat very little; I walked about, but was
very weak, and heavy-hearted in the sense of my mis-
erable condition, and dreading the return of m dis-
temper next day; at night I made my supper 0 three
turtle’s eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, in
92 ROBINSON cavsos.
asked God’s blessing to.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my-
self so weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I
never went out without that,) so I went but a little
way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon
the sea, which was just before me, and very calm and
smooth. As I sat, I thought, What is this earth and
sea, of which I have seen so much 'r' Whence is it pro-
duced ? And what am I, and all the other creatures,
wild and tame, human and brutal ‘f whence are we ?
Sure we are made by some secret power, who formed
the earth and sea, the air and sky ; and who is that ?
Then it followed most naturally—it is God that has
made it all. Well, but then, it came on strongly—if
God has made these things, he guides and governs
them all; for the being that could make all things
must have power to guide and direct them. If so,
nothing can ha pen in the circuit of his works with-
out his know] a or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful con-
dition; and if nothing happen without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed this to befall me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any
of these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me
with the greater force, that God has appointed all this
to befall me; that I was brought to this miserable
state by his direction; he having the sole power, not
of me onl , but of every thing that happened in the
world.— hen I said, Why has God done this to me ‘1’
What have I done to be thus used ?
My conscience presently checked me in that in-
quiry, as if I had blasphemcd ; and, methought it
said to me,—Wretch! dost thou ask what thou hast
done? Lack back upon thy dreadful mis-s nt life,
and ask thyself what thou hast done? As why is
it that thou wert not long ago destroyed ? Why
wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads? killed
ROBINSON CRUBOH- 93
man of war '3 devoured by wild beasts on the coast of
Africa? or, drowned here, when all the crew perished
but thyself? Dost thou ask,-~What have I done ?
ROBINSON CRUBOH- 93
not a word to say in answer to myself, but rose up,
pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went
up over my wall, as if I had been goin to bed; but
my thoughts were sadly disturbed, an I could not
sleep, so I sat in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for
it was dark. Now, as the fears of the return of my
ROBINSON CRUBOH- 93
take no physio but their tobacco. for almost all distem-
pers; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of
the chests, which was cured, and some that was green,
and not cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt, for in this
chest I found a cure for soul and body. I opened the
chest, and found the tobacco: and I took out one of
the Bibles, mentioned before, and which I had not
yet found leisure, or inclination, to look into.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, but
I tried several experiments with it, to make it hit
94 ROBINSON causes
94 ROBINSON causes
brains; the tobacco being green and strong, and I had
not been used to it; then I steeped some an hour or
two in rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I
lay down; and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of
coals, and held my nose over the smoke of it, as long
as I could bear it, as well for the heat as for the virtue
of it, and I held it almost to suffocation.
During this operation, I took 11 a Bible, to read;
but my head was too much distur ed with the tobac-
co, to bear reading, at least at that time; only, hav-
94 ROBINSON causes
these, “ Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
The words were very apt to my case, and they made
some impression on me, though not so much as they
did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word
had no sound, the thing was so remote, so impossible
in my a prehension of things, that I said as the chil-
94 ROBINSON causes
eat, “ Can God spread a table in the wilderness 1"” So
I said, Can God deliver me from this place? How-
ever, the words made a great impression upon me, and
I mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tobacco had dozed my head so much, that I in-
clined to sleep; so I left my lamp burning in my
cave, lest I should want any thing in the night, and
went to bed : but before I lay down, I did what I never
had done in all my life, I kneeled down, and prayed
94 ROBINSON causes
upon him in the day of trouble, he would deliver me.
After my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I
drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco,
95
which was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that I
could scarcel get it down. I then went to bed, and
it presently ew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till by the sun,
it must have been near three o'clock in the afternoon,
the next day : nay, I am partly of opinion that I slept
all the next day and night, and till almost three the
day after, otherwise I knew not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as
it appeared, some years after, I had done; for if I had
lost it crossing and recrossing the line, I should have
lost more than one day; but certainly, I lost a day in
my account, and I never knew how.
Be that as it may, when I waked I found myself
much refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful.
When I got up I was stronger than I was the day
before, and my stomach better, for I was hungry, and
ROBINSON OBUSOB.
for the better. This was the 29th,
The 30th was my well day, and I went abroad with
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and
brought them hbme, but did not eat them, but referred
the turtle‘s eggs, which were very good. T is even-
ing I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed
did me good the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped
in rum, only I did not take so much as before, nor did
I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the
smoke. However, I was not so well the next day,
which was the 1st of July.
July 2.—-I renewed the medicine all the three ways
ROBINSON OBUSOB.
quantity which I drank.
ROBINSON OBUSOB.
my full strength for some weeks. While I was thus
gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly
upon this passage in Scripture, “ I will deliver thee, ’
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay upon my
mind, in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I in-
dulged such thoughts it occurred to my mind, that I
pored so much upon :11 deliverance from the main
96 Bonuses causoa.
and I asked myself such questions as these, viz. Have
I not been delivered, and wonderfull too, from sick- '
ness; from the most distressed con ition that could
be, so frightful to me P And what notice had I taken
of it? Had I done 111 part? God had delivered me:
96 Bonuses causoa.
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance;
and how could I expect greater deliverance ? This
touched my heart very much, and immediately I
kneeled down and gave God thanks aloud, for my re-
covery from sickness.
July 4.—In the morning I took the Bible; and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously
to read it, and imposed upon myself to read a while
every morning and night, not tying myself to a num-
ber of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should
engage me. It was not long before I found my heart
96 Bonuses causoa.
The impression of my dream revived, and the words
“All these things have not brought thee to repent-
ance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestl
begging of God to give me repentance, when Prow-
dentially, the very day, that, reading the Scriptures,
I came to the words, “ He is exalted a Prince and a
Saviour, to give repentance, and to give remission.”
I ut down the book, and, with my heart and hands
h'Ked up toJieaven, in a kind of ecstacy of joy, I cried
aloud, “ Jesus, thou Son of David, Jesus, thou exalted
Prince and Saviour, give me repentance !”
96 Bonuses causoa.
for now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and
with a true Scripture view of hope, founded on God's
promises; and from this time I began to have hope
that God would hear me
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, “ Call on me, and I will deliver thee," in a
nonrnson causes. 97
for then I had no notion of any thing being called
deliverance, but my being delivered from the captivity
I was in; for though I was at large in the place, yet
the island was a prison to me, in the fullest sense of
the word; but now I learned to take it in another
sense. Now, I looked back on my ast life with such
horror, and my sins appeared so readful, that my
soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the
load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for
my solita life it was nothing; I did not pray to be
delivered om it, or think of it; it was all of no con-
sideration in comparison of this ; and I add this part
here, to hint to whomsoever shall read it, that should
nonrnson causes. 97
liverance from sin a much greater blessing than de-
nonrnson causes. 97
But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began to be much easier to my mind,
and my thoughts being directed, by a constant read—
ing of the Scriptures, and praying to God, to things of
a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within,
which till now I lmew nothing of. Also, as my health
and strength returned, I began to furnish myself with
every thing that I wanted, and make my way of liv-
ing as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was employed
with walking about with my gun, a little at a time,
nonrnson causes. 97
for it is hardly to be imagined how low and weak I
was. The application I made use of was perfectly
new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague be-
fore, neither can I recommend the experiment, for it
left me very weak, with frequent convulsions in my
nerves and limbs.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
G
months; all possibility of deliverance from it seemed
98 nonmson causes.
no human shape had ever set foot upon the place. Hav-
ing secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my
mind, I had a desire to make a more perfect discovery
of the island, and see what other productions I might
98 nonmson causes.
On the 15th of July I began to take a particular
curve of the island. I went up the creek first, where
I h brought my rafts on shore. I found, after
98 nonmson causes.
any higher, and that it was only a little brook of run-
nl..g water, very fresh and good; but this being the
dry season, there was little water in it.
On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant
savannahs or meadows, smooth, and covered with
grass, and on the rising parts, next to the higher
98 nonmson causes.
plenty of tobacco, green, and growing to a strong
stalk. There were divers other plants, which I did
not understand, and might have virtues of their own,
98 nonmson causes.
I searched fbr the cassava root, which the Indians
98 nonmson causes.
large plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I
saw several sugar canes, but wild, and, for want of
cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time, and came back, musing what
course I might take to know the virtues and goodness
of any of the fruits or plants which I should discover,
but could bring it to no conclusion, for I made so little
observation in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
98 nonmson causes.
The next da , the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and, ter going farther than I had the day
before, 1 found the brook and the savannahs began to
cease, and the country became more woody. In this
part I found different fruits, particularly melons upon
the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees; the vines had spread over the trees, and the
grapes were now in their prime, ve ripe and rich.
This was a surprising discovery, an I was very glad
of them; but I was warned, by my experience, to eat
sparingly of them, remembering that when I was
ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several
of our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throw—
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 99
cellent use for these grapes ; and that was to dry them
in the sum and keep them as dried grapes 0r raisins
are kept, which I thought would be as wholesome,
and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be
had. -
I spent all that evening there, and went not back
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 99
from home. In the night Ygot up into a tree, where
I slept well, and the next morning proceeded upon
discovery near four miles, keeping due north, with a
ridge of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of this march, I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west, and
a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the
side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due
east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 99
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with much pleasure, (though
mixed with afflicting thoughts.) to think that this
was all my own; and if I could convey it, I might
have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of
the runners in England. I saw abundance of cocoa-
treos, orange, lemon, and citron trees, but all wild,
and few bearing fruit. The green limes that I gath—
ered were pleasant to eat, and very wholesome; and
I mixed their juice with water, which made it very
wholesome, cool, and refreshing. I now resolved to
carry home and lay up a store of grapes, limes, and
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which
was approaching.
In order to do this, I gathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, and a lesser heap in another, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and,
taking a few of each with me, I travelled homewurd,
and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack,
or what I could make, to carry them home, I came
home; but before I got thither, the grapes were
spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the weight of
t e juice, having broken and bruised them the were
00d for little or nothing; as to the limes, 1y could
bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
. but I was But rised, when, coming to my heap of
grapes, I foun them all spread abroad, trodden to
pieces, and dragged about, and many devoured. By
this I concluded they were wild creatures thereabouts
which had done this, but what they were I knew not.
As I found there was no laying them up on heaps,
and no carrying them away in a sack, I gathered a
large quantity of grapes, and hung them upon the
out-branches of the trees, that they might cure and
dry in the sun: but as for the limes and lemons, I
carried as many back as I could.
When I came home, I was delighted with the fruit~
fulness of that valley, and the pleasantness of its situ-
100 ROBINSON causes.
the worst part of the count . I therefore began to
consider of removing my ha itation, and to look out
for a place equally safe as where I 'now was situate,
in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.
This thought I was very fond of for some time,
the pleasantness of the place tem ting me; but when
I came to a nearer view of it, an to consider that I
was now by the sea-side, where something might hap-
pen to my advantage, and that the same ill fate that
101
brought me hither might bring some unhappy wretch-
es to the same place ; and though this might never
happen, yet, to enclose myself among the hills and
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only im-
probable, but impossible, and that therefore I ought
not by any means to remove.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I spent there nearly t e whole remaining part of the
month of July; and though, upon second thoughts,
I resolved not to remove, yet I built a little bower,
and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence,
a double edge, as high as I could reach, well staked,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
secure, sometimes two or three nights together, always
going over it with a ladder, so that now I had my
c'iuntry house and my sea-coast house ; and this wor
took me up to the beginning of August,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
enjoy my labour, when the rams came on, and made
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
h'td. made me a tent, like the other, with a piece of a
siil, and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter
of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
me to retreat into, when the rains were extraordinary.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
bower, and began to enjo myself. The 3rd of
August I found the grapes had hung up were per-
fectly dried; so I took them down from the trees, and
it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which
followed would have spoiled them. No sooner had I
taken them all down, and carried them home to my
cave, but it began to rain; and from hence, the 14th
of August, it rained more or less every day till the
middle of October, and sometimes so violently that I
could not stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
t
loss of one of my cats, which ran away, or, as I
thought, died ; and I heard no more of her, till, to
my astonishment, she came home about the end of
August with three kittens. This was the more
strange to me, because, though I had killed a wild
, cat, as I called it, with my gun, et I thought it was
102 nonrnson causes.
the young cats were the same kind of house-bred,
like the old one; and both my cats being females,
I thought it very strange. But from these three cats
I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats that I
was forced to kill them like vermin1 or wild beasts, and
to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain, so that I could not stir, and was now very care-
ful not to get wet. I began to be straitcned for food;
but venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat; and
the last day, the 26th, found a very large tortoise,
which was a. treat to me; and my food was regulated
thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
102 nonrnson causes.
and two of the turtle‘s eggs for supper.
102 nonrnson causes.
dail two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and,
by egress, worked it towards one side, till I came to
the outside of the hill, and made a door, or way out,
which came beyond my fence or wall, and so I came
in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at
lying so open; for I was in a perfect enclosure,
whereas, now I lay exposed ; and yet I could not per-
ceive that there was any living thing to fear, the big-
gest creature that I had yet seen being a goat.
September 30th.—I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on
my post, and found I had been on shore three hun-
102 nonrnson causes.
fast, setting it apart to religious exorcise, prostrating
myself on the ground with the most serious humili-
ation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to
have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and having
not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, I
ate a biscuit cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to
nosnssou causoa. 103
I had all this time observed no Sabbath day; for as
nosnssou causoa. 103
had for some time omitted to distinguish the weeks by
cutting a longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath
day, and so did not know what any of the days were;
but now having cast up the days as above, I found I
had been there a year, so I divided it into weeks, and
set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath, though I
found at the end of my account I had lost a day or two.
A little after this, my ink began to fail me, and so
I contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life, without making a memorandum of other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began now
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divnde them
so as to provide for them accordingly. But I bought
my experience dear; and I am going to relate one of
the most discouraging experiments that I made. I
mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley
and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring
up, as I thought, of themselves; there were about
thirty stalks of rice, and twenty of barley; and now
I thought it a proper time to sow after the rains, the
sun being in its southern position going from me.
Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground as well as
I could with my Wooden spade. and dividing it into
two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing,
it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not
nosnssou causoa. 103
the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of
the seed, leaving about a handful of each.
It was well that I did so, for not one grain that I
sowed this time came to any thing ; for the dry months
following, the earth having had no rain after the seed
was sown, had no moisture to assist its growth, and
it never came up, till the wet season came again, and
then it grew as if it had been but newly sown.
104 nonrnson onvsos.
moister piece of ground for another trial. I dug up
a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the
rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal
104 nonrnson onvsos.
and April to water it, sprung up well, and yielded a
very good crop; hht'having only part of the seed left,
and not daring to sow all that I had yet, I had but a
small quantity at last, my whole crop amounting to
only half a peck.
But, by this experiment, I was made master of in
business, and knew exactly the time to sow, that I
might expect two seed-times and harvests every year.
While this corn was growing I made a little dis-
covery, which was useful afterwards. When the
rains were over, and the weather settled, in the month
of November, I madea visit up the country to m
bower, where I had not been for some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or
104 nonrnson onvsos.
entire, but the stakes, which I had cut off some trees
that grew there, were all shot out, with long branch-
104 nonrnson onvsos.
lopping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it
that these stakes were out from. I was surprised, and
yet well pleased, to see the young trees grow; and
pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike
104 nonrnson onvsos.
' in three years, so that though the hedge made a cir-
104 nonrnson onvsos.
trees, for such I might now call them, soon covered
104 nonrnson onvsos.
dry season.
This made me resolve to out some more stakes, and
make a hedge like this in a semicircle round the wall
nonmsox causes. 105
trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards
nonmsox causes. 105
nonmsox causes. 105
fence also.
I found now that the seasons of the year might be
divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe,
but into rainy seasons and dry seasons. thus :—
Half February, March, half April~—Rainy, the sun
being then or near the equinox, .
Half April, May, June, half August—Dry, the sun
being then to the north of the line.
Half August, September, half October—Rain, the
sun being then come back.
Half October, November, December, January, half
February—Dry, the sun being to the south of the
me.
The rainy season was longer or shorter as the winds
happened to blow; this was the general observation
I made. After I had found the ill effects of being
abroad in the rain, I furnished myself with provisions
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out;
and I mostly sat in doors during the wet months_
At this time I tried to make a basket, but all the
twigs I could get for the purpose proved too brittle.
It was a great advantage to me now, that when I was
a boy, I used to delight in standing at a basket-
maker’s in the town where I lived, to see them make
their wicker ware; and being, as boys usually are,
nonmsox causes. 105
ner how they worked these things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had so full a knowledge of their
methods, that I wanted only the materials; when it
came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree. from
whence I cut my stakes that grew, might ossibly be
all tough as willows, and osiers in Englan , and I re-
solved to try. The next day I went to my country
house, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found
them to my purpose as much as I could desire; and I
came the next time with a hatchet to out down a quan-
tity which I soon found, for there was a great plenty
of them. These I set to dry within my circle or
hedge, and when ready, I carried them to my cave;
and here, during the next season, I employed myself
in making a great many baskets, both to earth
or to lay up any thing, as I had occasion; an after-
wards, I took care never to be without them : and, as
my wicker ware decayed, I made more; especially
strong deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of
sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of
it
106 nonxxson‘ enusos
much time about it, I bestirred myself to see how to
supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold any
liquid, except two runlets almost full of rum, and some
glass bottles, some of the common size, and case bot-
tles, square, for holding water, spirits, &c. I had
not a pot to boil any thing in, except a great kettle
which I saved out of the ship, but too large for my
use, viz. to make broth, and to stew meat. The next
thing I would fain have had was a tobacco pipe; but
it was impossible for me to make one; however I
found a contrivance for that at last.
I mentioned before that I wished to see the whole
island, and that I travelled up the brook, to where 1
had built my bower, and where I had an opening
made to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now
resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that
side; so, taking my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and
a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with
two biscuit cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my
pouch, for my store. I began my journey. “'hen I had
‘ passed the vale where my bower stood, I came in view
' of the sea, to the west; and being very clear, I fairly
descried land, whether an island or a continent I could
not tell; it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 107
leagues oil“.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
be, otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was inhabited by
savages, where, if I should have landed, I had been
in a worse condition than I was now; therefore I
acquiesced in the disposition of Providence, which I
began to own, and to believe, ordered all for the best.
Besides, I considered, that if this land was the
Spanish coast, I should certainly one time or other
see some vessels pass'or repass one way or other; but
if not, then it was a savage country between the Span-
ish country and Brazils, who were indeed the worst
of savages, for they were cannibals, or men-eaters,
and devour all the human bodies that fall into their
hands.
\Vith these considerations I walked very leisurely
forward. I found this side of the island much
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 107
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 107
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 107
would have caught one, to have kept it to be tame,
and taught it to speak to me. I did after some pains-
taking catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down
with a stick, and took it home, but it was some years
before I could make him to speak to me. But at last
I taught him to call me by my name very familiarly.
I was much diverted with this journey. I found
in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them to be,
and foxes, but they ditfcred from the other kinds I
had met with; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no need to be ven-
turous, for I had no want of food, and very good too,
especially goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoise, which,
added to my grapes, Leadenhall market could not
have furnished a table better than I could, in propor-
tion to the company.
I only travelled about two miles a day; but I took
so manylums and returns, to see what discoveries I
could make, that I came weary enough to the place
where I resolved to sit down for all night; and then
I either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded my-
self with a row of stakes set upright in the ground,
either from one tree to another, or so as no wild crea-
ture should come at me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea shore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side
of the island, for here the shore was covered with in-
108 nonrvsou cavson.
found but three in a year and a half. Here was also
108 nonrvsou cavson.
of them very good meat, but I knew not their names,
except those called penguins. I could have shot as
many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my pow-
der and shot, and had more mind to kill a she-goat,
which I could better feed on. And though there were
more goats than on my side of the island, yet it was
108 nonrvsou cavson.
count being even, and they saw me sooner than
when was on the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much plea-
santer than mine, yet I had not the least inclination
to remove; and I seemed all the while I was here to
be upon a journey, and from home. However, I travel-
Iod along the shore, towards the east, about twelve
miles; and then setting up a great pole upon the
shore for a mark, I concluded to go home; and that
the next gourney I took should be on the other side of
the islan ,east from my dwelling, and round till I
came to my post again.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much

nonmsou cnvson. 109
dwe ing, by viewing the country: but found myself
mistaken; for being come about two or three miles,
I found myself in a very large valley, but so surround-
ed with hills, and covered with woods, that I could
not see which was my way by any direction but that
of the sun, 'nor even then, unless I knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the da .
The weather unfortunately proved hazy or three
or four days, while I was in this valley; and not
being able to see the sun, I wandered about very un-
nonmsou cnvson. 109
sea-side, look, for my post, and come back the sauna
way I went; and then, by easy journeys, I turned
homeward, the weather being very hot; and my gun,
ammunition, hatchet, and other things, very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized it; and 1, running, caught it, and saved it
alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it
home, if I could; for I was very anxious to raise a
breed of tame goats, which might supply me when
powder and shot should be all spent. I made a
collar for this little creature, and with a string which
I made of some rope- arn, which I always carried
nonmsou cnvson. 109
I came to my bower, and there I enclosed. him, and
left him ; for I was very impatient to be at home,
having been absent above a month.
I cannot express how delightful it was to come into
my old abode, and lie down in m hammock-bed.
T is little wandering journey, wit out any settled
habitation, had been unpleasant, so that my own
house was a perfect settlement, compared to that; and
it rendered every thing about me so comfortable, that
I resolved never to go far from it again, while it was
my lot to stay on the island.
I sZiposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
my after my long journey, during which, most of
the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making
a cage for my poll, who began now to be a domestic,
and to be well acquainted with me. Then I began to
think of the poor kid pent within my little circle, and
resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food; ac-
cordingly I went, and found it where I left it, for it
could not get out, but was almost starvc'd for want
of food. I cut boughs of trees, and branches of such
110 nosmson causes.
ing fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away, but
it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need
to tie it, for it followed me like a dog ; and became, from
that time, one of my domestics also, and would never
leave me. “
The rainy season was now come, and I kept the
30th of September in the same solemn manner as be-
fore, being the anniversary of my landing on the
island, having now been there two years, and no more
110 nosmson causes.
there. I spent the whole day inhumble an thankful
acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies
which my solitary condition was attended with, and
without which it might have been infinitely more
miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks that
God had been pleased to discover to me, that it was
possible I might be more happy in this solitary
state, than in all the pleasures of the world; that he
110 nosmson causes.
tary state, and the want of human society, by his
presence, supporting, comforting, and encouraging
me to depend upon his Providence here, and hope for
his eternal presence hereafter.
Now I began sensibly to feel how much more happy
the life I now led was, with ah its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led
all the past part of my days; having changed my sor-
110 nosmson causes.
ing, or indeed for the two years past.


Before, as I walked about, either hunting, or view-
ing the country, my very heart would die Within me,
to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I
was in; and how I was a prisoner locked up with the
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the
greatest composures of my mind, this would break out
upon me, like a. storm, and make me wring my hands,
and weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me
in the middle of my work, and I would immediately
sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an
hour or two together; but if I could burst into tears,
or vent myself by words, the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.
But now I exercised myself with new thoughts. I
daily read the word of God, and applied all its com-
forts to my present state. I never opened the Bible,
but my soul blessed God for directing my friend in
England, without any order of mine, to pack it up
among my goods, and for helping me aftewards to save
it out of the wreck of the ship.
In this disposition of mind, I began my third year;
having regularly divided my time according to my
nosrnsox onuson. 111
and reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set
apart for some time thrice everyday. Secondly, going
abroad with my gun for food, which generally took
me up three hours every morning, when it did not
rain. Thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and
cooking, what I had killed or catched for my supply;
these took up great part of the day. Also, in the mid-
dle of the day, when the sun was in its zenith, the
violence of the heat was too great to stir out, so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I
could be supposed to work in; except that sometimes
I changed my hours of hunting and working, and
went to work in the morning, and abroad with my gun
in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labour, may be added
the laboriousness of my work; the many hours,
which, for want of tools and help, and want of skill,
every thing that I did took up out of my time. For
example, I was full two-and-forty days making a
board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave,
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit,
would have out six of them in half a day.
My case was this; a large tree had to be cut down,
bacause my board was to be a broad one. This tree
I was three days in cutting down, and two more cut-
ting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log or icce
of timber. W'ith much hacking and hewing, re-
duced both sides of it into chips, till it was light
enough to move; then I turned it, and made one side
112 nonrnsox causes.
downward, cut the other side, till I brought the
lank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on
0th sides. Any one may judge the reason why so
much of my time went away with so little work, viz.
that what might be readily done with tools, required
{ti-St labour and a prodigious time to do alone, and by
and.
I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, ex eating my crop of barley and rice. The
ground had manured or dug up for them was not
great, for my seed was not more than half a peek;
or I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry
season, but now my crop promised very well, when,
suddenly I found I was indanger of losing it all again
by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce pos-
112 nonrnsox causes.
which I called hares, which, tasting the sweetness of
the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it came
up, and ate it so close, that it could not shoot up into
stalk. This I saw no remedy for but by enclosing it
with a hedge, which I did with great toil, and the
more as it required speed, the creatures daily spoiling
my_ corn. However, is my arable land was but small,
suited to m crop, I got it well fenced in about three
weeks; on shooting some of the creatures in the day,
I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to
a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark
all night long; so the enemies soon forsook the lace,
and the corn grew very strong and well, and ogau.
to ripen space.
But as the beasts injured me before. while my com
was in the blade, so the birds were likely to injure
me when it was in the ear; for, going by the place
to see how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded
with all kinds of fowls, which stood, watching till I
Rosrusou onusos. 113
and I had no sooner shot. but there rose up a little
cloud of fowls, which I had not seen, from amongst
the com.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that, in a.
few days, they would devour all my hopes; that I
should be starved, and never be able to raise a. crop,
and what to do I could not tell. First, I went among
it to see what damage was already done, and found
they had spoiled a good deal of it; but, as it was yet
too green for them, the loss was not so great, but
there might be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could see the thieves sitting upon the trees
about me, waiting till I was gone away; and the
event proved it to be so : for I was no sooner out of
their sight, but they dropped down, one by one, into
the corn again. I was so provoked that I had not
patience to stay till more came, knowing that every
grain they ate, was a pack loaf to me in the consequence;
Rosrusou onusos. 113
, three of them. This was what I wished for : so I
took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains as a.
tenor to others. It is almost impossible to imagine
I!
the effect it had; for the birds would not only not
come at the corn, but they forsook all that part of the
island, and I never saw a bird near the place as long
as my scarecrows hungr there.
This I was very glad of; and, about the latter end
of December, which was our second harvest of the
year, I reaped my crop. I was sadly put to it for a
scythe or sickle, to out it down, and all I could do
was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad-swords, or cutlasscs, which I saved among the
arms out of the ship. However, as my crop was but
114 ROBINSON causes.
short, I reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing off
but the ears, and carried it away in a great basket
which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my
hands. At the end of all my harvesting, I found that
out of my half-peck of seed, I had near two bushels of
rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley; that
is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.
This was a great encouragement to me, and I' fore-
saw that in time it would please God to su ply me
with bread. But I was perplexed again, for neither
knew how to grind or to make meal of my corn, or
how to clean it, and part it; nor, if made into meal,
how to make bread of it; and it how to make it, I
knew not how to bake it. These things being added
to my desire for having a good quantity for store, and
a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this
crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the next
season, and, in the mean time, to employ all my study
and hours of working to accomplish this great work
of roviding myself with corn and bread.
t might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is wonderful what a strange multitude of
little things are necessary in the providing, producing,
114 ROBINSON causes.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
7 this to be my daily discouragement, and was made

more and more sensible of it every hour, even after I
aonmson causes. 115
have said, came up unexpectedly, and to my surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade
or shovel to dig it. W'ell, this I conquered by making
a wooden spade, as I observed before; but this did
my work but in a wooden manner; and though it cost
me a great many days to make it, yet for want of iron,
it not only wore out the sooner, but made my work
the harder, and made it be performed much worse.
However, this I bore with, and was content to work
it out with patience, and bear with the badness of the
performance. When the corn was sown, I had no
arrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag
a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the
earth, as it may be called, rather than harrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed
already how many things I wanted, to fence it, secure
it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in; and
yet these things I did without. All this made every
thing laborious and tedious to me, but that there was
no help for; neither was my time so much loss to me,
because as I had divided it. a certain part of it was
every day appointed to these works; and, as I re-
solved to use none of the corn for bread, till I had a.
great quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply myself, by labour and invention, to furnish
these utensils necessary for making the corn into
aonmson causes. 115
But I had to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I
did this, I had a week’s work, at least, to make me a
spade, which was but a sorry one, and very heavy,
and required double labour to work with it. However,
I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large
I
116 nonnvson onuson.
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that wood
which I knew Would grow ; so that, in one year's
time, I knew I should have a quick or living hedge,
that would want but little repair. This work took
me up three months, but it was the wet season, when
I could not go abroad.
Within doors, while I was at work, I diverted my-
self with talking to m ' parrot, and teaching him to
speak; and I quickly learned him to know his own
name, at last to speak it pretty loud, “ Poll ;" the
116 nonnvson onuson.
but my own. This, therefore was not my work, but
an assistant to my work. I had now a great employ-
ment upon my hands, viz. I had long studied, by some
means or other, to make myself some earthern vessels,
which I wanted sorely, but knew not where to come
at them. But, considering the heat of the climate, I
116 nonnvson onuson.
butch up some pot, as might, being dried in the sun,
be hard and strong enough, to bear handling, and to
hold any thing that required to be kept dry ; and as
this was necessary in preparing corn, meal 8:0. which
was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some
as large as I could, like jars, to hold what should be
put in them.
It would make the reader pity, rather laugh at me,
to tell my awkward ways to raise this paste : what odd,
mis-shapen, ugly things I made; how many of them
fell in, and how many fell out, the clay not being
stiff enough to bear its own weight ; how many cracked
by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too
hastily; and how many fell to pieces with only re-
moving, before and after they were dried; and, in a
116 nonnvson onuson.
cla , to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, to work
it, could not make above two large, earthen, ugly

n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
things, I cannot call them jars, in about two months.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
in two great wicker-baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, that they might not break; and as
between the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare; and these two pots, being to stand
always dry, I thought they would hold my dry corn,
and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
the heat of the sun baked them extremely hard.
But still an earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
meat, when I put it out, after I had done with it,
found a broken iece of one of my earthenware ves-
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to
myself, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
burn some ots. I had no notion of a. kiln, such as
the potters urn in, or of glazing them with lead,
though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed
three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a pile
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
it with a great heap of embers under them. I plied
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red but quite
through, and observed that they did not creek.
When I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that
n-oamsozs 01111503. 117
it did not crack, did melt or run; for the sand which
was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the
heat, and would have run into glass it“ I had gone on;
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
abated, and watching them all night, that I might
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins,
and two other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be
desired; and one of them perfectly glazed with the
running of the sand.
After this experiment, I wanted no sort of earthen-
ware for my use; but I must needs say, as to the
shapes, they were very indifferent. No joy at a th'
of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine, when
found I had made an earthen pot that would bear the
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did ad-
mirably well ; and, with a piece of kid, I made some
very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and sev-
eral other ingredients requisite to make it as good as
I Would have had it.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
beat com in; as to the mill, there was no arriving to
that perfection of art, with one pair of hands. To
supply this want I was at a great loss; for, of all the
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
a stone-cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I
any tools to go about it with. I spent many a day to
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
in the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or
cut out, nor were the rocks in the island of hardness
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pes-
118 nonleozv cnvsos.
So, after a great deal of time lost in searching for a
stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great
block of hard wood, which I found much easier ; and
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I round-
ed it, and formed it on the outside with my axe and
ROBINSON (meson. 119
ROBINSON (meson. 119
in Brazil make their canoes. After this I made a
great heavy pestle, of the wood called the iron-wood,
and this I prepared and laid by against my next crop
of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather
pound, my corn into meal, to make my bread.
ROBINSON (meson. 119
my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husks,
without which I did not see it possible I could have
ROBINSON (meson. 119
ROBINSON (meson. 119
stuff to sift the meal through. And here I was at a
full stop for many months; nor did I really know
what to do, linen I had none left, except mere rags,
I had goat’s hair, but neither knew how to weave or
spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools
to work it with; all the remedy that I found for this
was, that at last I did remember I had, among the
seamen’s clothes, which were saved out of the ship,
some neekoloths of calico or muslin; and with some
pieces of these I made three small sieves.
The next thing was how I should make bread when
ROBINSON (meson. 119
to that part, as there was no sup lying the want, so
I did not concern myself much :1 out it; but for an
even I was indeed in great pain. At length I found
an expedient for that also; I made some earthen ves-\
sels very broad, but not deep, about two feet in diam-
ROBINSON (meson. 119
and laid them by, and w en I wanted to bake, I made
ROBINSON (meson. 119
square tiles, of my own making and burning.
ROBINSON (meson. 119
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them
lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping awe
all the embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, an
whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the
embers all around the outside of the pot, to keep in
and add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley loaves, and be-
came, in a little time, a pastry-cook into the bargain,
having made myself several cakes of the rice.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
up most of the third year of my abode here; for it is
to be observed, that in the interval of these things,
my new harvest and husbandry had to be managed,
for I reaped my corn in its season, carried it home,
and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, till an
120 nonnrsou causes.
thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.
And now my stock of corn increasing, it was neces-
sary to build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to
lay it up, for the increase of corn; for I had of barley
about twenty bushels, and as much or more of rice;
insomuch that I now resolved to use it freel , for my
bread had been quite gone a great while; ing re-
120 nonnrsou causes.
for a whole year, and to sow but once a year. Find-
ing that the forty bushels of barley and rice were
much more than I could consume in a year, I resolved
to sow just the same quantity every year as the last.
During the time that these things were doing, my
thoughts ran many times upon the rospeot of land,
which I had seen from the other sidg of the island;
and was not without secret wishes to get on shore,
fancying that seeing the main land, and an inhabited
120 nonnrsou causes.
myself farther, and at last might escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a state, and how I might fall into the
hands of savages, far worse than the lions and tigers
of Africa; that if I once came into their power, there
would be the hazard of being killed, and perhaps of
being eaten; for I knew that the people of the Ca-
ribbean coast were cannibals; and I knew by the lat-
itude that I could not be far off from that shore; that,
suppose they were not cannibals, yet they might kill
me, as many Europeans had been served even when
they had been ten or twenty together, much more me
that was only one. All these things I ought to have
considered well, and did think of afterwards, yet took
nouxssox (muses. 121
Lahn mightily upon the thought of getting over to that
ore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which we sail-
ed above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa, but
this was in vain. Then I went to look at our ship’s
boat, which was blown up upon the shore a great way
nouxssox (muses. 121
nouxssox (muses. 121
turned by the force of the waves and the winds, al-
most bottom upwards, against a high ridge of beachy
rough sand, but no water about it as before.
nouxssox (muses. 121
boat would have done well enough to have taken me
back into the Brazils; but I might have easily fore-
seen that I could no more turn it, and set it upright
upon its bottom, than I could remove the island.
However, I went to the woods and cut levers and rol-
lers, and brought them to the boat, resolved to try
what could be done, thinking, that if it could be tum-
ed down, the damage it had received might easily be
repaired, and it would be a good boat, and I might go
to sea in it easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it;
nouxssox (muses. 121
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand to un-
dermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it in the fall.
But I was unable to stir it up again, or to get under
it, much less to move it forward towards the water,
and I was forced to give it over; yet my desire to
Venture over for the main increased, rather than de-
creased, as the means for it seemed impossible. This
set me upon thinking whether it was possible to make
a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those
climates make ; even without tools, or, without hands,
viz. of the trunk of a great tree. Thi; I not only
thought possible, but easy; but not at all considering
the inconveniences which I lay under more than the
Indians did, viz. want of hands to move it into the
122 ROBINSON causes.
for me to surmount than all the consequences of want
of tools could be to them; for what was it to me, that
when I had chosen a vast tree, I might with great
trouble cut it down, if after I should be able with my
tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape
of a boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it
hollow, so as to make a boat of it; if, after all this,
I was not able to launch it into the water?
One would have thought I could not have had the
122 ROBINSON causes.
boat, but I should have thought how I should get it
into the sea; but my thoughts were so intent upon
my voyage over the sea in it, that I never once thought
122 ROBINSON causes.
for me to guide it over 45 miles of sea than about 45
fathoms of land, where it lay.
I went to work upon this boat just like a fool. I
pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it; ‘not but that
122 ROBINSON causes.
head; but I put a. stop to my own inquiries into it by
this foolish answer which I gave myself—“Let me
122 ROBINSON causes.
to get it along, when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went,

ROBINSON eavsos. 128
diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet; after which it lessened for a while, and then
ROBINSON eavsos. 128
this tree. I was twenty days hacking it at the
bottom; fourteen more getting the branches and
vast spreading head of it out off, which I
hewed through with my axe and hatchet, with inex-
pressible labour. After this it cost me a month to
shape it, and dub it to a proportion, and to something
like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright
as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more
to clear the inside, and to work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it. This I did by mere mallet and
chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till it was a
very handsome periagua, and big enough to carry six-
nnd twenty men, consequently big enough to carry
me and all my cargo.
When Ihad gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really big-
ger than ever I saw a canoe, or periagua, made of one
tree; and there remained nothing but to get it into
the water. But all my devices to get it there failed,
ROBINSON eavsos. 128
about one hundred yards from the water, and it was
up-hill towards the creek. I therefore resolved to dig
into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity,
This cost me a vast deal of pains, but who will grudge
pains that have deliverance in view P When this was
Worked through, I could no more stir the canoe than
I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a canal, to bring the water up to the
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the
water. Well, I began this work, and calculated how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was
to be thrown out, I found that, by the number of hands
I had, being none but my own. it must have been ten
or twelve years before I should have gone through'
with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper
end it must have been at least twenty feet deep; so at
length, though with great reluctancy, I gave this at-
tempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we count
the cost, and before we judge rightly of our own
strength to go through with it.
124 ROBINSON cnusoe.
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion, and with as much comfort as ever be-
fore; for by a constant study, and serious application
of the word of God, and by the assistance of his grace,
I gained a different knowledge from what I had be-
fore. I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,
which I had nothing to do with, no expectation from,
and indeed no desires about; so I thought it looked,
as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a
place I had lived in, but was come out of it.
124 ROBINSON cnusoe.
wickedness of the world here. I had neither the
124 ROBINSON cnusoe.
of life.” I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was
now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the whole
manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself king over
the whole count which I had possession of. There
Were no rivals. had no competitor; none to dispute
sovereignty or command with me. I might have
raised ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it,
so I let as little grow as I thought enough for my 00-
casion. I had tortoises or turtles plenty, but one was
as much as I could use at once. I had timber enough
124 ROBINSON cnusoe.
124 ROBINSON cnusoe.
money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds
124 ROBINSON cnusoe.

lay; I had no manner of business for it; and I ofth
thought within myself, that I would have given a
handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-
mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all
for sixpenny worth of turnip and carrot seed out of
England, or for a handful of peas and beans, and a
aosmson causoa. 125
from it, but there it lay ina drawer, and grew mouldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet season; and if
I had had the drawer full of diamonds, they would
have been of no value to me, because of no use.
I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink had been iluite gone for some time, all but
5 ve little, which eked out with water, till it was
so pale as to scarcely stain the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the day of the
month on which any remarkable thing happened to
aosmson causoa. 125
that there was a strange concurrence of da s in the
various Providences which befell me, and w ich, if I
had superstitiously observed da s as fatal or fortunate,
I might have had reason to 100 upon with a deal of
curiosity. First, I had observed that the same day
that I broke aw, 1y from my father and my friends, and
ran away to Hu , to go to sea, the same day after-
wards I was taken b the Sallee man of war, and made
a slave. The same ay of the year that I escaped out
of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads, that
same day of the year afterwards I made my escape
from Sallee in the boat. The same da of the year
I was born in, viz. the 30th of September, the same
day I had my life so miraculously saved twen -six
years after, when I was cast on shore on this is and,
sodthat my wicked life and solitary life began both on
a ay.
aosmson causoa. 125
bread, or biscuit which I had brought out of the ship.
1‘ his I had husbanded to the last degree, eating but
one cake of bread a day for above a year; yet I was
without bread nearly a year before I got any corn of
my own; and great reason I had to be thankful that
i[ had any at all, the getting it being next to miracu-
ous.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily. As to
linen, I had had none for a good while, except some
check shirts which I found in the seamen’s chests,
and which I carefully preserved, because many times
I could bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it
was well that I had among all the men's clothes of
the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There were
also several thick watch-coats of the seamen, but they
were too hot to wear; and although the weather was
so hot, that few clothes were needed, yet I could not
go quite naked, though I was all alone.
I could not bear the heat of the sun so well when
in that state, as with some clothes on, nay, the very
heat frequently blistered my skin; whereas, with a
shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without
it. Nor could I go out in the sun without a cap or a
hat, for the heat of the sun would give me the head-
ache presently, by darting so directly on my head,
without a cap or a hat on, so that I could not bear it.
I began therefore to consider about putting my few
rags, which I called clothes, into some order, I had
worn out all the Waistcoats I had, and my business
was new to try if I could not make jackets out of the
great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such
other materials as I had; so I set to work a tailoring,
or rather indeed a botching, for I made piteous work
of it. However, I made shift to make two or three
new waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a
great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made sorry
shift indeed, till afterwards.


ROBINSON 03115011. 127
I mentioned that I saved the skins of the creatures
that I killed, the four-footed ones, and hung them up
stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means
some of them were so dry and hard that the could
ROBINSON 03115011. 127
thing I made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the out side to shoot off the rain;
and this I performed so well, that, after this, I made
me a suit of clothes, wholly of those skins; awaiscoat
and brooches, open at knees, and both loose : for they
were rather wanted to keep me cool, than to keep me
warm. They were wretchedly made; for if I was a
bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor.
Aiter this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make an umbrella, for I was in great want of one,
I had seen them made in the Brazils, where they are
very useful in the great heats, and I felt the heats
here greater, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I
was obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I was
a great while before I could make any thing likely to
hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoil-
ed two or three before I had made one to my mmd;
ROBINSON 03115011. 127
ROBINSON 03115011. 127
down. I could make it to spread, but if it did not let
down too, and draw in, it would not be portable for
me any way but just over my head, which would not
do. However, at last I made one to answer. I cover-
ed it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast
off the rain like a penthouse, and kept off the sun so
effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest
weather, with greater advantage then I could before
in the coolest; and when I had no need of it, I could
close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived very comfortably, my mind being en-
tirely composed, by resigning t0 the will of God, and
throwing myself upon the disposal of his Providence.
This made my life better than sociable; for when I
began to regret the want of conversation, I asked
myself, whether thus conversing mutually with my
own thoughts, and even with my Maker, by ejacula-
tions and petitions, was not better than the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world ? Nothing
128 ROBINSON cnoson.
me, but I hved on in the same course, and the same
place, just as before. The chief thing I was em-
ployed in, besides my yearly labour of planting my
arley and rice, and curing my raisins, of which I al-
ways kept just enough to have one year‘s provisions
beforehand, I had also another task to make me a
128 ROBINSON cnoson.
a canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought
128 ROBINSON cnoson.
that was too large to bring to the water, or the
water to it, that I was obliged to let it lie where it
was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser next
time. The making of this latter boat, and a canal,
took me up nearly two years.
128 ROBINSON cnoson.
was not answerable to my design, when I made the
128 ROBINSON cnoson.
was about forty miles broad; accordingly, the small-
ness of my boat put an end to that design, and I
thought no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next
design was to make a tour round the island; for as I
had been on the other side in one place, crossing, as
described before, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that journey made me eager to see other parts
of the coast.
For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
128 ROBINSON cnoson.
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some 0!
the pieces of the ship’s sails, which lay in store, and
of which I had a great stock by me.
128 ROBINSON cnoson.

I found she would sail very well. Then I made little
lockers or boxes at either end, to hold provisions,
necessaries, ammunition, &c. to be kept dry, either
from rain, or the spray of the sea, and a hollow place
I out within the boat where I could lay my gun, ma-
nonrrzson causes. 129
nonrrzson causes. 129
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of
the sun 05 me, like an awning ; and thus I every now
and then took a. little voyage upon. the sea, but never
went far out, nor far from the little creek; but being
eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom,
I resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen loaves
of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice,
8. food I ate a. great deal of, a bottle of rum, half a
goat, powder and shot for killing more, and twu large
watch-coats, of those which I had saved out of the
seamen's chests, one to lie upon, and the other to cover
me in the night.
- It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, that I set out on this
voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected;
for though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the sea,
some above water, some under it; and beyond that a
shoal of sand, lying dry, half a. league more, so that I
was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double that
nonrrzson causes. 129
give over my enterprise, and come back, not knowing
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above
all, doubting how I should get back again; so I came
to anchor, for I had made me a kind of anchor, with
a iece of grappling, which I got out of the ship.
aving secured my boat, I took my gun, and went
on shore. climbing upon a hill, which overlooked that
point, where I saw the full extent of it, and rcsulVed
I
to venture. In viewing the sea from the hill, I per-
ceived a furious current, which ran to the east, and
even came close to the point, and I noticed it the
more. because I saw there might be some danger, that
when I came into it, I might be carried out to sea by
the strength of it, and not be able to make the island
130 aosnvson causes.
hill, I believe it would have been so, for there was the
same current upon the other side of the island, only
that it set off at a farther distance, and I saw a strong
eddy under the shore, so that I had nothing to do but
130 aosnvson causes.
sently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because the wind,
blowing pretty fresh (at E. S. E. and that being just
contrary to the said current,) made a breach of the
sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to
keep too close to the shore, for the breach, nor to go
too far 05 because of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having
abated over night, the sea was calm, and I ventured ;
but no sooner was I come to the point, when even I
was not my boat’s length from the shore, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like
the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with
it with such violence, that all I could do, could not
keep her as much as on the edge of it; but I found
it hurried me farther out from the eddy, which was
on the left hand. There was no wind stirring to hel
130 aosnvson causes.
nothing; and now I began to give myself over for
lost; for, as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone, nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it: so that I
had no prospect but of perishing, not by the sea, for
that was calm, but of starving for hunger. I had
found a tortoise on the shore, and had tossed it into
the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, but
what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean,
where there was no shore, no main land or island, for
a thousand leagues, at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the Providence
of God to make the most miserable condition that one
might think he was in, worse. Now I looked upon
my desolate island as the most pleasant place in the
world; and all the happiness my heart could wish
for, was to be there again. I stretched out my hand
to it with eager wishes. “0 happy desert,” said I,
“ I shall never see thee more! 0 miserable creature,
whither am I going 1"” Then I reproached myself
with my ingratitude, and repining at my solitary con-
dition, and now what would I give to be there again ‘8
Thus we never see the true state of our condition, till
it is illustrated to us by its contraries; nor know how
to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is not
impossible to imagine the consternation I was now
in, being driven from my beloved island into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of
ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till
my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat
northward, towards the side of the current which the
eddy lay on. When about noon, as the sun assed
the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze 0 wind
in my face, springing from the S. S. E. This cheered
my heart a little, and especially when in about half
an hour more it blew a small gentle gale. B this
time I was gotten at a frightful distance from t e is-
land, and had the least hazy weather intervened, I
had been undone another way; for I had no compass
on board, and should never have known how to steer
towards the island, if I had but once lost sight of it;
but the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to
get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of
the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boot
began to stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness
of the water, some alteration in the current was near,
for where the current was so strong, the water was
foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the cur-
rent abate, and presently I found to the east, at about
half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks;
these rocks I found caused the current to part again,
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the north-east, so the other re-
turned by the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong
eddy, which ran back again to the north- west, with a
very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve
brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued
from thieves about to murder them, may guess what
my surprise was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of this eddy, and the wind also freshening,
how gladly I s read my sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind), and with a strong tide or eddy under
foot. This eddy carried me about a league in my way
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the
northward than the current lay, which carried me
132 ROBINSON cnvsos.
found in self open to the northern shore of it, that is
to sa , t e other end of the island, op osite to that
whic I went out from. When I ha made some-
thing more than a league of way, by the help of this
current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me
no farther. However, I found that being between
the two great currents, viz. that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north,
which lay about two leagues on the other side, I
found the water still, and running no way; and hav-
ing a breeze of wind fair to me, I kept on steering di-
reetly for the island, though not making such fresh
way as I did before.
About four o'clockin the evening, being about a
league off the island, I found the point of the rocks
which had caused this disaster stretching out to the
southward, and casting oif the current southerly, had,
of course, made another eddy to the north: this I found
very strong, but not directly setting the way the
course lay, which was due west, but almost full north.
However, having a fresh gale, I stretched across this
eddy, slanting north-west, and in half an hour came
within a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth
water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees and gave
God thanks for my escape, resolving to lay aside all
thoughts of my deliverance by the boat; and refresh-
ing myself with such things as I had, I brou ht my
boat close to the shore, in a little cove I espied; under
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being nearly
spent with the fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a eat loss which way to get home
with my boat. I ad run so much hazard, and knew
too much the case, to think of attempting it by the
way I went out; and what might be at the other side
(the west side,) I knew not, nor had I any mind to
run any more ventures; so I only resolved in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and see if there was a creek, where I might lay up my
frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted
her. In about three miles, coasting along the shore,
I came to a v0 good inlet, or bay, about a mile over,
which narrowe till it came to a very little rivulet,
Where I found a convenient harbour for my boat,
and where she lay as if she had been in a little dock
made on purpose for her: here I put in, and stowed
my boat safe; I then went on shore to see where I
was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to
that shore ; so taking nothing out of my boat, but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began

my march. The way was comfortable enough afteiI
such a voyage, and I reached my old bower in the
evening, where I found every thing as I left it.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs; for I was very weary, and fell
asleep. But judge what surprise I must be in, when
I was awaked out of my sleep, by a voice calling me
by my name several times, “ Robin, Robin, Robin
Crusoe! poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe ? ’Wherc are you P \Vhere have you been ?"
134 aonmson causes.
134 aonmson causes.
with walking the latter art, that I did not awake
thoroughly, and dozing, etween sleeping and waking,
thought that I dreamed that somebody spoke to me.
But as the voice continued to repeat “ Robin Crusoe!
Robin Crusoe l" at last I awoke more perfectly, and
134 aonmson causes.
great consternation. But no sooner were my eyes
open, than I saw my Poll sitting on the top of a.
hedge, and knew it was he that spoke to me; in such
bemoaning language I used to talk to him, and teach
him : and he had learned it so perfectly, that he would
134 aonmson causes.
and cry, “ Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are youf
"Where have you been? How came you here F” and
such things as I taught him.
Though I knew it was the parrot, it was a good
134 aonmson causes.
amazed how Poll got thither, and how he should keep
about the place, and no where else. But as I was
134 aonmson causes.
it; and holding out my and, and calling “ Poll,”
the sociable creature came and sat upon my thumb,
as he used to do, and continued talking to me “ Poor
Robin Crusoe!” and how did I come here, and where
had I been, as if he had been overjoyed to see me
again ; and so I carried him home.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
ROBINSON causes. 135
the danger I had can in. I would have been very
glad to have my boat again on my side of the island;
but I knew not how it was practicable to at it about.
As to the east side of the island, which had gone
round, I knew there was no Venturing that way; my
heart would shrink, and my blood run chill, to think
of it. And as to the other side of the island, I did not
know how it might be there ; but supposing the current
ran with the same force against the shore at the east,
as it passed by it on the other, I might run the same
risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by
the island, as I had been before of being carried away
irom it; so I contented myself to be without any
oat.
In this government of my temper I remained 11881
a year, lived a very retired life, and my thoughts being
very much composed as to my state, and resigning
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I lived hap-
pily in all things, except that of societ .
improved myself at this time in al the mechanic
exercises which m necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and, I elieve, could, upon occasion, have
made a good carpenter, considering what tools I had.
Besides, I arrived at great perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived to make them with a wheel, which
ROBINSON causes. 135
ROBINSON causes. 135
things to see. But I never was more vain of my own
performance, or more joyful for any thing I found out,
than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe, and
though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing, when itwas
done, and only burnt red like other earthenware, yet,
ROBINSON causes. 135
I was much comforted with it; for I had been always
used to smoke, and there were pipes in the ship, but
ROBINSON causes. 135
bacco in the island, and when I searched the ship
again, I could not get to them.
In my wicker-ware I also improved, and made many
baskets, though not very handsome, yet they were
very handy and convenient for laying things up in,
or fetching things home in. For, if I killed a goat
126 noamsos causes.
it, out it in pieces, and bring it homein abasket; the
like by a turtle, I could cut it up, take out the eggs,
126 noamsos causes.
me, and bring them home and leave the rest behind me.
I now perceived that my powder abated considera-
bly, and this was a want which I could not suppl ,
and I began seriously to consider what I must (Io
when I should have no powder ; that is, how I should
kill an goats. I had, as I observed in the third year
of my eing here, kept a young kid, and bred her up
tame. I was in hopes of getting a he-kid : but I could
126 noamsos causes.
in my heart to ill her, till at last she died of mere age.
Being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and my ammunition low, I set myself to study some
art to trap the goats, to see if I could catch some of
them alive, and I wanted a she-goat great with young.
To this purpose I made snares to hamper them, and
they were more than once taken in them, but my
tackle was not good, for I had no wire, so I found
them broken, and my bait devoured.
I now resolved to try a pit-fall, and dug several
large its, in places where the goats used to feed, and
over t ese pits I placed hurdles of my making, with
a great weight upon them, and several times put ears
of barley and dry rice, without setting the trap, and
I perceived that the goats had gone in, and eaten the
corn; I could see the marks of their feet. Then I
set three traps in one night, and the next morning,
I found them all standing, and the bait eaten. This
discouraged me, but I altered my traps ; and, going
one morning, I found a large he-goat, three kids, a
male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him,
nonmson cnusoa. 137
bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. I
could have killed him, but that was not my business.
nor would it answer my end; so I let him out, and
he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his
wits, but I had forgot then, what I learned afterwards,
that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let him stay
there three or four days without food, and then have
carried him some water, and a little corn, he would
have been as tame as the kids, for they are very trac-
table, when well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time; then I went to the three kids,
and, taking them one by one, I tied them with strings
nonmson cnusoa. 137
It was some time before they would feed; but by
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now I found, that if I
nonmson cnusoa. 137
had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame
was my only way, when perhaps I might have them
nonmson cnusoa. 137
But then it presently occurred to me, that I must
keep the tame from the wild, or else the would al-
ways run wild when they grew up, and t e only wa
for this was to have some enclosed piece of groun ,
well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them
up so etfectually, that they could not mix together.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands,
yet, as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing
nonmson cnusoa. 137
iecc of ground, viz. where there was likely to be
erbage for them to eat, water for them to drink, and
cover to keep them from the sun.
The place I pitched upon was a. plain open space of
meadow land, or savannah, with two or three rills 0!
fresh water in it, and at one end very woody. Many
will smile at my forecast, when I tell them I began
to enclose this piece of ground, so that my hedge or
pale must have been at least two miles about ; nor
was the madness of it so great as to the compass, for
if it was ten miles about, I was like to have time
enoughto do it in, but I did not consider that my
goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if they
had all the island, and having so much room to chase
them in, I should not catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe
138 nonmsox causes.
138 nonmsox causes.
I resolved to enclose a piece of about one hundred
138 nonmsox causes.
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I
138 nonmsox causes.
increased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
138 nonmsox causes.
tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used
to feed them as near me as possible, to make them
familiar; and very often I would go and carry them
some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
138 nonmsox causes.
ed, and let them loose, they would follow me up and
down, bleating after me for some com.
This answered my end, and in about a, year and a
138 nonmsox causes.
and in two years more I had three-and-forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food: and after
138 nonmsox causes.
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take
them as I wanted them.
138 nonmsox causes.
feed on when I pleased, and milk too, a thing which
Q
in the beginning I did not so much as think of, and
which, when it came into my thoughts, was an agreea-
ble surprise; for now I set up my dairy, and had
sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature,
dictates even naturally how to make use of it, so, I
that never milked a cow, much less a goat, or saw
butter or cheese made, managed to make both.
It would have made a. Stoic smile to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner. There was
my majesty, the rince and lord of the whole island.
I had the lives 0 all my subjects at my commande
could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away, and
no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined too, attended
by my servants! P011, as if he had been the favourite,
was the only one permitted to talk to me: my dog,
who was now grown very old and crazy, sat always at
my right hand; and two cats, one on each side.
These were not the two cats which I brought on.
aonnvsoa' causes. 189
them having multiplied by some kind of a creature,
these two I had preserved tame, but the rest ran wild
in the woods, and became troublesome to me ; for the
would often come into my house and plunder, till I
was obliged to shoot them, and kill a great many.
And in this plentiful manner I lived; neither could
I be said to want any thing but society.
I was impatient to have the use of my boat, though
loath to run any more hazards, and therefore some-
times I sat contriving wa s to get her about the is-
land, and at other times 1y sat down contented with-
out her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind
land ; and following the edge ofthe shore, I did so ; but
to go down to the point of the island, where, in my
last ramble I went up the hill to see how the shore
lay, and how the current set. This inclination in-
creased every day, and I resolved to travel thither by
land; and following the edge of the shore I did so ; but
had any one in England met such a man as I was,
he must either have frightened him, or raised a great
deal of laughter, and as I oft stood still to look at my-
self, I could not but smile at the notion of my travel-
ling through Yorkshire with such an equipagc, and in
140 noamson cnvsos.
gure :—I had a great, high, shapeless ca , made of a
140 noamson cnvsos.
the sun from me, and to shoot the rain 03 from run-
ning into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these
140 noamson cnvsos.
‘I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts hang-
ing down to about the middle of my thighs; and a
pair of open-knee’d breeches; the breeches were
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that, like panta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings
and shoes I had none; but I had made me a pair of
something, I scarce knew what to call them, like
140 noamson cnvsos.
I had on a broad belt of goat’s skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead
of buckles: and, in a kind of frog, on each side of this,
hung a saw and a hatchet. I had another belt not so
broad, fastened in the same manner, which hung over
my shoulder; and at the end of it, hung two pouches,
in which I kept my powder and shot. At my back
I carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and
over my head a great, clumsy, goat‘s skin umbrella,
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I
had about me, next to in gun. As for my face, the
colour of it was not so ulatto-like as one might ex-
pect from a man not at all careful of it, and living
within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard
I once suffered to ow till it was a quarter of a yard
long; but as I hagrscissors and razors, I had cut it
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by Turks at Sallee. These
mustachios or whiskers, were monstrous, and would
in England be thought frightful.
nonmsos causes. 141
nonmsos causes. 141
nonmsos causes. 141
my boat to anchor, to get upon the rocks; and, not
having any boat now to take care of, I went over the
land a nearer way, to the same height that I was upon
before, when looking forward to the point of the rocks
which la out, and which I was to double with m
boat, as {said above, I was surprised to see the sea a
smooth and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current,
any more there than in other places.
was at a loss to understand this, and spent some
time in observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of
the tide had caused it. But I was soon convinced how
it was, viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west,
and joining the current of waters from some great
river on the shore, caused this current , and that, ac-
cording as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
or north, this current came near, or went farther from
the shore: for, waitin till evening, I went up to the
rock again, and then t e tide of ebb being made, I
plainly saw the current again as before, only that it
nonmsos causes. 141
whereas, in in case, it set close 11 on the shore, an
hurried me an my canoe along wi it, which it would
not do before.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing
nonmsos causes. 141
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again; but when I began to t ink of putting
it in practice, I had such a terror upon my spm‘ts at
the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with patience ; but on the
contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious, and this was that
I would make me another pcriagua, or canoe, and so
have one on each side of the island.
You are to understand that now I had two plants-
142 sosmsou causes.
with the wall about it under the rock, with the cove
behind me, which I had enlarged into several a art-
ments or caves, one within another. One of t ese,
the driest and the largest, had a door out beyond my
142 sosmsou causes.
142 sosmsou causes.
142 sosmsou causes.
my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the
ear out off short from the straw, and the other rubbed
out with my hand.
As for my well. made with long stakes or piles,
those piles grew like trees, and were now grown so big,
and spread so very much, that there was not the least
appearance of any habitation behind them. Near this
dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land,
and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of com-
ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which always ielded me their harvest in its season;
and wheneverI had occasion for more com, I had
142 sosmsou causes.
Besides, I ad my country seat, and now a tolera-
142 sosmsou causes.
bower, which I' ke t in repair, that is, I kept the
142 sosmsou causes.
usual height, the ladder standing always in the in-
142 sosmsou causes.
142 sosmsou causes.
always so cut, that they might spread and grow thick
and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which
142 sosmsou causes.
this I had my tent always standing, being a piece of
a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and
which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this I had made me a squab or couch, with the
skins of the other creatures I had killed, and with
other soft things, d a blanket laid on them, such as
belonged to our so -bedding, which I had saved, and
a great watch-coat to cover me : and here, whenever
I was absent from my chief seat, I took up my coun-
try habitation. _
Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures for goats;
and as I had taken a deal of pains to fence and en-
close this ground, I was so uneasy lest the goats should
nosnrsos causes. 143-
labour, I had stuck the outside of the hedges so full of
small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was
rather a pale than a. hedge, and there was scarce room
to put a hand through between them, which after-
wards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the
next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a
wall, indeed much stronger than my wall.
This will testify that l was not idle, that I spared
no pains to effect whatever was necessary for my com-
fortable support; for I considered the keeping up a
breed of tame creatures at my hand would be a living
nosnrsos causes. 143-
even if I lived in the place forty years ; and that keep-
ing them within my reach depended upon my so per-
fecting my enclosure that I might be sure of keeping
them together, which by this method was effectually
secured. But when the stakes began to grow, they
were so very thick, that I was forced to pull some of
them up again.
nosnrsos causes. 143-
pe ded on for my winter store of raisins, which I
never failed to preserve carefully, as the most agreea-
ble dainty of my whole diet; they were wholesome,
nourishing, and refreshing.
As this was also about half way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither,
for I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all
things about it in very good order. Sometimes I went
out in it to divert myself, but no mwe hazardous voy-
ages would go, nor scarce ever above a stone’s cast or
two from the shore.
It happened one day about noon, going towards my
boat, I was greatly surprised with the print of a. man‘s
naked foot on the shore, which was ve plain to be
seen in the sand. I stood like one thun er-struck, or
as if I had seen an apparition. I listened I looked
round me; I could hear or see nothing. I went up
to the rising round to look farther. I went up
and down the s ore, but I could see no other impres-
sion but that one. I went to it again to see if it might
not be fancy; but there was no room for that, for
there was exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot; how it came thither I could
144 aoamsox causes.
144 aoamsox causes.
144 aoamsox causes.
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mis-
taking every bush and tree, and fancying every stump
at a distance to be a man. Nor can I describe the
144 aoamsox causes.
sented things to me.
144 aoamsox causes.
144 aoamsox causes.
contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which
I called a door, I cannot remember; for never fright-
144 aoamsox causes.
of mind than I to this retreat.
I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from
the cause of my fright, the greater my apprehensions
were; which is somethin contrary to the nature of
such things, and es eci y to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear. ut I was so embarrassed with
frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing but
dismal imaginations, though I was now a great way
from it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil;
and reason joined in with me upon this supposition;
for how should any other thing in human s ape come
into the place ? Where was the vessel that brought
them? What marks were there of any other foot-
steps? And how was it ossible a man should come
there? But then to th' that Satan should take hu-
man shape upon him in such a place, where there
could be no cause for it, but to leave the print of his
foot behind him, and for no purpose, this was an
amazement to me the other way. I considered that
the devil might have found out many other ways to
noamsos' cnuson. 146
as I lived quite on the other side of the island, he
would never have been so simple to leave a mark in
the place where it was ten thousand to one whether
I should see it or not, and in the sand too, which the
noamsos' cnuson. 146
defaced. All this seemed inconsistent with all no-
tiion's we usually entertain of the subtlety of the
ev: .
Such ideas as these assisted to argue me out of all
apprehensions of its being the devil ; and I concluded
wthat it must be some more dangerous creature, viz.
that it must be some of the savages of the main land.
over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and, either driven by the currents, or
by contrary winds, had made the island; and had
been on shore, but were gone away again to sea, being
as loath, erhaps, to have stayed in this desolate is-
land, as Ipwould have been to have had them.
noamsos' cnuson. 146
was not near at that time, or that t ey did not see my
boat, by which they would have concluded that some
inhabitants had been in the place, and erha s have
searched farther for me. Then terri 1e t oughts
racked my imagination about their having found my
boat, and that there were people here; and that, if
I
so, I should certainl have them come back again in
greater numbers to evour me; and that if they could
146 o ROBINSON cnvsos
146 o ROBINSON cnvsos
and I should perish at last for mere want.
Thus fear banished all my religious hope and for-
146 o ROBINSON cnvsos
wonderful experience of his goodness, now vanished;
as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not
reserve the provision which he had made for me by
his goodness, I reproached myself for not sowing
more com one year than would just serve me till next
season, as if nothing could happen to prevent my en-
joying the crop that was upon the ground; and I re-
solved for the future to have two or three year’s corn
beforehand; so that whatever might come, I might
not perish for want of bread.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
weeks and months; and one particular effect of my
cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz. one
146 o ROBINSON cnvsos
thoughts about my danger from the appearance of
savages, I found it disconlposed me very much ; upon
which those words of the Scripture came into In
thou hts, “Call on me in the day of trouble, and
will eliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.”
Upon this, rising cheerftu out of my bed, my
heart was not only comforted, but was guided and
encouraged to pray earnestl to God for deliverance.
NVhen I had done praying, took up my Bible, and
146 o ROBINSON cnvsos
were, “ \Vait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and
he shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the
Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort this
gave me, and in return I thankfully laid down the
book, and was no more sad, at least on that occasion.
146 o ROBINSON cnvsos
into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a
aonnwson cameos, 147
mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be
the rint of my own foot, when I came on shore from
my oat. This cheered me a little too, and I began
to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was
nothing but my own foot; and why might not I come
that way from the boat, as well as I was oing that
way to the boat? I considered also, that f could by
no means tell for certain where I had trod, and where
I had not ; and that if at last this was only the print
of my own foot, I had played the part of those fools,
who strive to make stories of spectres and apparitions,
and then-are themselves frightened at them more than
an§bod else.
ow began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again; for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provi-
sions, for I had little or nothing within doors, but
some barley cakes and water. Then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was
evening diversion, and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience from want of it.
Heartening myself with the belief, that this was only
the print of one of my own feet, I went abroad again
aonnwson cameos, 147
with what fear I went, how often I looked behind
me, and was ready every now and then, to lay down
my basket, and run for my life, it would have made
_ any one think I was haunted with an evil conscience,
or that I had lately been frightened.
However, as I went on thus a few days, and had
seen nothing, I began to be bolder, and to think it
was nothing but my own imagination; but I could
not persuade myself fully to this, till I went to the
shore again, to see the print of a foot, and measure
it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
aonnwson cameos, 147
I came to the place, it appeared to me, that when I
laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore
148
ROBINSON CRUSOE-
thereabouts. Secondly, when I measured the mark
with my foot, my foot was not so large by a. great
148
ginations, and gave me the vapours again, so that I
shook like one in an ague, and I went home again,
148
on shore there; or that the island was inhabited, and
I might be surprised before I was aware; and what
course to take I knew it.
0 what ridiculous resolutions men take, when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of
those means which reason offers for their relief. The
148
my enclosures, and turn all, my tame cattle wild into
the woods, that the enemy might not find them, and
then frequent the island in prospect of like booty;
then the simple thing of digging up my two corn
148
still be prompted to frequent the island; then to de-
molish my bower and tent, that they might not see
any vestiges of habitation, and be tempted to search
out the persons that were inhabiting it.
148
tion, after I was come home again, while the appre-
hensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh
upon me. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times
more terrifying than danger itself when apparent to
148
by much, than the evil which we are anxious about;
but, what is worse than all this, I had not that relief
in this trouble from the resignation I used to ractiee,
that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, li e Saul,
who complained not only that the Philistincs were
upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not compose my mind, by crying to God in m dis-
tress, and resting upon his Providence, as I he done
before, for my defence and deliverance ; which if I had
done, I had, at least, been more cheerfully supported
aoamsorz oncsos. 14)
under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through
it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but, in the morning I fell asleep, and having
been tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept soundly,
and awaked better composed than I had ever been be-
fore. I began to think sedately; and, upon the ut-
most debate with myself, I concluded, that this is-
land, whlch was so pleasant, fruitful, and no farther
from the main land than as I had seen, was not so aban-
doned as I imagined; that although there were no
stated inhabitants who lived on this spot, yet that
there might sometimes come boats oif from the shore,
who either with design, or perhaps only when they
were driven by cross winds, might come to this place;
aoamsorz oncsos. 14)
with the least shadow of any people before; and that
if any should be .driven here, it was propable they
went away as soon as they could, never thinking
aoamsorz oncsos. 14)
most I could suggest any danger from, was, from the
casual landing of straggling people from the main,
driven here against their wills, so that they made no
stay here, but went off again, seldom staying one
night on shore, lest they should not have the tides
and daylight back again; and that therefore I had
nothing to do but consider of some retreat, in case
I should see any savages land upon the spot.
I began sorely to repent, that I had dug my cave
so large as to bring a door through again, which door
aoamsorz oncsos. 14)
rock. Upon maturely considering this, I resolved to
aoamsorz oncsos. 14)
at a distance from the wall, where I had planted a
double row of trees, above twelve years before. These
trees having been planted so thick before, there want-
edbut a few piles to be driven between them, that
they might be much thicker and stronger, and my
aoamsorz oncsos. 14)
I had now a double wall, and my outer one was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every
thing that I could think of to make it strong; having
in it seven little holes, about as big as I could put my
arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my
wall to about ten feet thick, continually bringing
earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of my
wall, and walking upon it: and through the seven
holes I planted the seven muskets which I got out of
150 nonrnson causes.
into frames that held them like a carriage, that so I
150 nonrnson causes.
150 nonrnson causes.
yet never thought myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground with-
out my wall, for a great space every way, full with
stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found
so apt to grow, as they could stand, insomuch that I
believe that there must have been set in near twenty
thousand of them, leaving a retty large space be-
tween them and my wall, that might have room to
see the enemy, and that they might have no shelter
from the young trees if they approached my wall.
Thus, in two years’ time, I had a thick grove; and
150 nonrnson causes.
dwelling grown so monstrous thick and strong that
it was perfectly impassable: and no man would ever
imagine that there was any thing beyond it, much
less a habitation. As for the way I proposed to my-
self to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was b
setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock whic
was low, and broke in, and left room to place another
ladder upon that, so when the two ladders were taken
down, no man living could come down to me without
injuring himself; and if they had come down, they
were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen,
at length, not altogether without just reason, though
I foresaw nothing at that time, more than fear sug-
gested. But I was not careless of my other affairs;
for I had great concern upon me for my herd of goats;
nosrnsos causes. - 151
me, without the expense of powder and shot, but also
abated the fatigue of hunting after wild ones, and I
was loath to lose the advantage, and to have them all
to nurse up again.
To this purpose, I could think of but two ways to
nosrnsos causes. - 151
place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night; and the other was to enclose two
or three little bits of land, remote from one another;
and as much concealed as could be, where I might
keeplabout half a dozen young goats in each place,
nosrnsos causes. - 151
ral, I might be able to raise them again with little
trouble and time; and though it would require much
time and labour, I thought this was the best design.
nosrnsos causes. - 151
land, and pitched upon one which was as private as
I could wish; for it was a little damp piece of ground
in the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where I
almost lost myself once when returning that way from
the eastern part of the island. It was a clear piece of
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that
it was almost an enclosure by nature.
I at once went to work at this piece of ground, and,
in less than a month I had so fenced it round, that
nosrnsos causes. - 151
any delay, I removed ten she-goats and two he-goats
to this place; and when they were there, I continued
to perfect the fence, till it was as secure as the other.
All this labour I was at the trouble of, was urely
on account of the print of a man's foot which% had
seen, for as yet I saw no human creature come near
the island; and I had new lived two years in this
fear, which made my life much less comfortable than
it was before, and this discomposure of mind had too
great impressions also upon the religious part of my
thoughts; for the dread of falling into the hands of
savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I
was seldom in a due temper for application to my Ma-
ker, at least not with the sedate calmness and resig-
nation which I was wont to do. I rather prayed to
152 ' IOBINSON’ crusos.
tion of being murdered and devoured before morn-
ing, and I must testify, from my own experience, that
a temper of peace, thankfulness, and love, is the pro-
.per frame for prayer, and not that of terror and dis-
composure; a man is better tor a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is
for repentance on a sick bed, for these discomposures
152 ' IOBINSON’ crusos.
discomposurc of the mind must necessarily be as great
a disability as that of the body, and much greater,
praying being an act of the mind, not of the body.
After I had thus secured one part of my living
stock, I, went about the whole island, searching for
another private place, to make another deposit ; when
wandering more to the west point of the island than
I had ever done, and looking out to sea, I thought I
saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had
found a prospective glass or two in one of the seamon's
chests, but I had not one about me, and this was so
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes could look no longer.
Whether it was a boat or not, I did not know; but as
I descended from the hill, I could see no more of it,
so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more with-
out a prospective glass.
11 I was come down to the hill, to the end of the
island, where I had never been before, I was presently
convinced that the seeing the print of a man’s foot
was not such a strange thing in the island as I ima-
RourxsoN car'soe. 153
primed; and, but that it was a special Providence that
I was cast upon the side of the island where the em
vages never came, I should have easily known that
nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from
the main, when a little too far out at sea, to shoot
over to that side of the island for harbour; likewise,
as they often met, and fought in their canoes, the vic-
tors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them
over to this shore, where, being all oannibals, they
would kill and eat them.
When I came down the hill to the shore, on the S.
W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded;
nor can I express the horror of my mind, at seeing the
shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies: and particularly a place where a
RourxsoN car'soe. 153
a cock-pit, where the savage wretches must have sat
down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of
their fellow creatures. ‘
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to myself
from it for a long while; all my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature, which, though I had heard of often,
yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting, when nature discharged the disorder from
my stomach ; and, having vomited, I was relieved,
but could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so
I got up the hill again, with all the speed I could, and
walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile as amazed, and then recovering,
I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and
RourxsoN car'soe. 153
RourxsoN car'soe. 153
I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures, and
that though I had esteemed my present condition veiy
miserable, had given me so many comforts in it, that
I had more to give thanks for, than to complain of;
and above all, that I had, even in this miserable con-
dition, been comforted with the knowledge of himself,
and the hope of his blessing, a felicit more than
equivalent to all the misery which I he suffered, or
15L ROBINSON causes.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and felt much easier now, as to my safety, than
ever I was before, for I observed that these wretchos
never came to this island in search of what they could
get: perhaps not wanting, nor expecting any thing
here; and having often, no doubt, been up in the
15L ROBINSON causes.
purpose. I had been here almost eighteen years, and
never saw the least footsteps of human creature be-
fore; and might be here eighteen more as entirely
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to
them, which I had no occasion to do, it being my only
business to keep myself concealed where I was, unless
I found better creatures than cannibals to make my-
self known to.
Yet I had such an abhorrence of the savage wretch-
es, and of the inhuman custom of eating one another,
that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within
my own circle for almost two years after this. By
my own circle, I mean my three plantations, viz, my
castle, my country seat, or my bower, and my enclo-
sure in the wood; nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an enclosure for my goats; for m
aversion to these hellish wretches was such, that
was as fearful of seeing them, as of seeing the devil
himself. Nor did I so much as go to look after my
boat all this time, but began to think of making ano-
ther; for I could not thin of making any more at-
tempts to bring the boat round the island to me, lest
I should meet with some of these creatures at sea,
into whose hands, if I should fall, I knew what would
have been my lot.
Time, however, and the conviction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear oif my uneasiness about them, and I
began to live just in the same composed manner as
before; yet I used more caution, and kept my eyes
more about me than I did before, lest I should be seen
by them ; and articularly I was more cautious in
ROBINSON causes. 155
should ap en to hear; and it was therefore very
Providentiafthat I had furnished myself with a tame
breed of goats, that I needed not hunt or shoot them;
and if I did catch any of them after this, it was by
traps and snares; so that for two years after this I
ROBINSON causes. 155
out without it ; and as I had saved three pistols out
of the ship, I always carried two of them in my goat-
skin belt. I also polished up one of the great outlas-
ses that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to
put it in; so that I was now a most formidable fellow
to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself the two pistols,‘ and a great
broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without
a scabbard.
Things going on thus, I seemed, excepting these
cautions, to be reduced to my former calm way of liv-
ing. All these things tended to showing me, more
and more, how far my condition was from being mis-
erable, compared to some others, nay, to many other
particulars of life, which it might have pleased God
to have made my let. How little repining there
would be among mankind, if people would compare
their condition with those that are worse, in order to
be 111, than be always comparing them with
those which are better to assist their murmurings and
complainings.
As to my present state, there were not many thian
which I wanted, so I thought that my fears about
these savage wretches, and my concern for my own
156 ROBINSON causes.
or my own conveniences; and I had dropped a good
design, which once engaged my thoughts, and that
was, to try to make some of my barle into malt, and
then try to brew m self some beer, t was a whim-
sical thought, and reproved myself often for the sim-
plicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the
want of several things necessary to make my beer that
156 ROBINSON causes.
was a thing t at I could neVer compass, no, though I
spent not many weeks, but months, in attempting it,
but to no purpose. In the next place I had no hops,
to make it keep, no yeast, to make it work, and no cop-
per to make it boil; and yet, had not all these inter-
vened, I mean my frights and terrors about the sava-
ges, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to
pass too ; for I seldom gave over any thing without
accom lishing it, when I once had it in my head
enoug to begin it.
But my invention ran now quite another way, for
night and day I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel
an bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would
take up a larger volume than this whole work is in-
tended to be, to set down all the contrivanoes I formed
in my thoughts for destroying them, or frightening
them so as to prevent their coming hither any more,
156 ROBINSON causes.
I was there to do it myself; and what could one man
do among them, when erhaps there might be twenty
or thirty of them toget er, with their darts, or their
bows and arrows, with which they could shootas true
to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contemplated to dig a hole under the
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
it. But, as I had not quite one barrel of powder left. I
was loath to spend so much on them; neither could
I be sure of its going 011' at one certain time, when it
might surprise them; and at best that it would do lit-
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
place; so I laid it aside, and then proposed to place
myself in ambush, in some convenient place, with my
three guns, all double loaded, and, in the middle of
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
be sure to "ll or wound perhaps two or three at a
shot, and then falling upon them with my three pis-
tols and sword, I made no doubt but that if there were
twenty, I should kill them all. In this mood I s at
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
ambuscade, to watch for them, and I went frequently
to the place itself; but the horror I had at the place,
and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-
ing one another, made me shudder.
At length I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I might securely wait till I saw their boats
coming, and might then, even before they could come
on shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of the
trees, in one of which there was a hollow lar e enough
to conceal me, and where I might sit and oiserve all
their bloody doings, and take aim at their heads, when
they were close together, that it would be nearly im-
possible to miss them, or fail wounding three or four
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
Accordingly}7 I prepared two muskets, and my fow-
ling piece. he two muskets I loaded with a brace
ROBINSON CBUSOB. 161
the size of pistol bullets, and the fowling piece with
a handful of swan shot, of the largest size. I loaded
my pistols with about four bullets each; and in this
posture, well provided with ammunition for a second
and third charge, I prepared myself for my expedi-
tion.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design,
I made my tour every morning to the top of the hill,
which was from my castle about three miles or more,
to see if I <2on observe any boats upon the sea, com-
ing near the island, or standing over towards it ; but
I began to tire, after I had for two or three months
constantly kept my watch, without any discovery,
there having not in all that time been the least appear-
ance, on or near the shore, and not on the ocean, so
far as m eyes or glasses could reach eve way. As
long as kept up the daily tour to the hild‘o look out,
so long also I kept up the vigour of my design ; and
my spirits were in a suitable frame for so outrageous
an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked
savages for an oifence which I had not duly discussed
in my thoughts, any farther than my passions were
153 nonrnson onuson.
ral custom of the eople of that country, who, it seems,
had been suifere by Providence, in his wise disposi-
tion of the world, to have no other guide than that,
of their own abominable passions, and consequently
were left, and had been for ages, to act such horrid
things, and receive such horrid customs, as nothing
but nature abandoned by'Heaven, could have run
153 nonrnson onuson.
sider what I was going to engage in; what authority
I had to be judge and executioner upon these men as
153 nonrnson onuson.
ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be the
executioner of his judgments upon one another; also
how far these people were offenders against me, and
what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that
blood which they shed one upon another. I debated
this often with myself thus: how do I know what
God judges in this case? It is certain these people
do not commit this as a crime: it is not against their
own consciences reproving, or reproaching them.
The do not know it to be an offence, and then com-
ROBINSON causes. 159
' all the sins we commit. They think it no more a
crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to
ROBINSON causes. 159
mutton.
When I had considered this a little, it followed
necessarily that I was in the wrong; that these peo-
ple were not murderers in the sense that I had before
condemned them in my thoughts, any more than those
Christians were murderers who often put to death the
prisoners taken in battle, or put whole troops of men
to the sword, without giving quarter, though they
threw down their arms and submitted.
These considerations put me to a pause, and I con-
cluded that I had taken a wrong resolution to attack
the savages; that it was not my business to meddle
ROBINSON causes. 159
was my business to prevent; that if I were discovered
and attacked, then I knew my duty.
Then I argued that this was not the way to deliver
myself, but to ruin myself; for unless I was sure to
kill every one that should be on shore at that time, or
that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one
of them escaped to tell their-cquntry people what had
happened. they would come again b thousands to
revenge the death of their fellows. an I should only
bring u on myself a certain destruction, which at
present fhad no occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in prin-
ciples or policy I ought, one way or other, to concern
myself in this affair; that my business was. b all
possible means, to conceal myself from them. an not
to leave the least signal to them to guess by that there
were any living human creatures upon the island.
Religion joined in with this prudential resolution;
and I was convinced that I was perfectly out of my
duty when I was laying all my blood schemes for
the destruction of innocent creatures; mean inno-
cent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them:
they were national, and I ought to leave them to the
'ustice of God, who is the Governor of nations, and
ows best how to bring public judgments upon those
who offend in a ublic manner.
This appeared, so clear to me now, that nothing
was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not
been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than
that of wilful murder ; and I gave most humble thanks
on my knees to God, who had thus delivered me from
blood-gniltiness, beseeching him to grant me the pro-
tection of his Providence, that I might not lay my
hands upon them, unless I had a clearer call from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.
In this disposition I continued for near a year, and
all that time I never went once up the hill to see if
any of them were in sight, or to know if any had been
on shore or not; only this I did, I went and removed
my boat, on the other side of the island, and carried
it down to the east end of the island, and ran it into
a little cove, which I found under some high rocks,
and where I knew, by the currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not,’ come with their boats, on any
account whatever.
With my boat I carried away every thing I had
left there belonging to it, viz. a mast and sail, which
I had made for it, and a thing like an anchor. All
these I removed, that there might not be the least
shadow of any discovery, or any ap earance of any
boat, or any human habitation u on t e island.
I also kept myself more retire than ever, and sel-
dom went from my cell, except to milk my she-goats,
160 ROBINSON causes.
was on the other part of the island, was quite out of
danger; for the savages seldom wandered from the
coast. I looked back with horror upon thinking what
my condition would have been, if I had chopped upon
them, and been discovered naked and unarmed, except
with one gun, loaded often only with small shot. I walk-
ed every where peeping and peering about the island,
to see what I could get; what a surprise should I have
been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man‘s foot,
nonmsou causon. 161
and found them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of
their running, no possibility of my escaping them.
Such thoughts sometimes so much oppressed me,
that I could not recover it. Indeed, after thinking of
these things, I was very melancholy, and sometimes
it lasted a great while; but I resolved it at last into
thankfulness to Providence which had delivered me
from so many unseen dangers, and had kept me from
those misehiefs which I could not have been the agent
in delivering myself from; because I had not the least
notion or any supposition of its being possible.
nonmsou causon. 161
began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in
the dangers we had run through in this life: how
wonderfully we are delivered, when we know nothing
of it; how when we doubt or hesitate whether to go
this way, or that way, a secret hint should direct us
this way, when we intended to go that way; nay,
when sense, inclination, and perhaps business, has
called to go the other way, yet a strange impression
upon the mind, by we know not what power, shall
over-rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards
appear that had we gone that way which we wanted
to go, we should have been ruined. Upon such re-
nonmsou causon. 161
that whenever I found these secret hints, or presages
of my mind, for doing or not doing any thing that
presented, or for going this way or that way, I never
K
menus,”
failed to obey the secret dictate, though I knew no
other reason for it than such a pressure hung upon
1 my mind. I advise all considering men, whose lives
, are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
' mine, or even not so extraordinary, not to slight such
' _ secret intimations of Providence, let them come from
v:what invisible intelligence they will, that I shall not
~jdiscuss, and perhaps cannot account for; but cer-
; tainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and
v5 the secret communication between those embodied and
those unembodied, and such a proof as can never be
withstood.
I believe the reader will not think it strange if I
confess that these anxieties, and constant dangers I
lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention and contrivances that I had
laid for my future/conveniences. I had the care of
my safety more now upon my hands than that of my
food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood now, for fear the noise would be heard, much
162 ROBINSON onuson.
162 ROBINSON onuson.
tray me; and for this reason I removed that part of
162 ROBINSON onuson.
pots and ipes, &0. into my new apartment in the
woods, w ere, after I had been some time, I found,
to my great consolation, a natural cave in the earth,
which went a vast way, and where, I dare say, no
savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so
hardy as to venture in; nor any man else, but one
who, like me, wanted such a safe retreat.
The mouth ofthis hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where (by mere accident I would say, if
I did not see reason to ascribe such things now to Provi-
dence,) I was cutting down some thick branches of
trees to make charcoal; for I was afraid of makin
smoke about my habitation; and yet I could not live
there without baking bread, cooking meat, &c. ; so I
l'
I
burned wood here, as I had seen done in England,
under turf till it became chark or dry coal; and put-
nonmson caosos. 163
nonmson caosos. 163
at home, without danger or smoke.
While cutting down some wood here, I perceived
behind a very thick branch of low brushwood, a hol-
low place. I was curious to look into it, and getting
nonmson caosos. 163
nonmson caosos. 163
and perhaps another with me: but I must confess, I
made more haste out than I did in, when looking
farther into the place, which was perfectly dark, I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether
devil or man, I-knew not, which twinkled like two
stars; the dim light from the cave’s mouth shining
nonmson caosos. 163
_ But after some time, I recovered myself, and called
myself a thousand fools, and said that he that was
nonmson caosos. 163
in an island alone, and that perhaps there was nothing
in this cave more frightful than myself. Upon this,
nonmson caosos. 163
and in rushed again, with it in my hand. I had
not gone above three ste s in, but I was almost as
nonmson caosos. 163
that of a man in some pain, and it was followed by a
noise, like words half expressed, and then a deep sigh.
I stepped back, and was struck with such surprise,
that It put me into a cold sweat, and if I had had a
hat on my head, I think my hair would have lifted it
nonmson caosos. 163
ing myself, with considering that the power and pres-
ence of God were every where, and able to protect me,
nonmson caosos. 163
bran , I saw lying on the ground, a monstrous fright-
ful old he-goat, just making his will, as we say, gasp-
ing for life, and dying of mere old age. _

I stirred him a little, to see ifI could get him out,
and he strived to get up, but he was not able to raise
himself, and I thought he should even lie there, for
if he had frightened me so, he would certainly fright
any of the savages, if any of them should be hardy
enough to come in there, while he had life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and be an
to look round me, when I found the cave was ut
small, about twelve feet over, but in no manner of
hope, either round or square, no hands having been
employed in making itbut those of mere nature. I
observed also a place at the far side, that went in
farther, but so low that I should have to creep on my
hands and knees, and whither it went I knew not; so
having no candle, I gave it over for that time, but re-
solved to return next day, with candles and a tinder-
box, which I made of the lock of a musket, with some
164 noanson cnoson.
Accordingl , the next day, I came provided with
six large can es of my own making, for I made very
good candles now of goats’ tallow; and going into
this low place, I had to creep upon all fours, almost
ten yards, which I thought was a venture bold enough,
considering that I knew not how far it might go, or
what was beyond it. \Vhen I was got through the
strait, I found the roof rose higher up, near twenty
feet; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the
island, I dare say, to look round the sides and roof of
164 noanson cnoson.
lights to me from my two candles. What it was that
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or other precious
stones, or gold, I knew not.
The lace was a most delightful grotto, of its kind,
164 noanson cnoson.
was dry and level, and had small loose gravel upon it,
so that there were no venemous creatures to be seen;
» nor was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof.
164 noanson cnoson.
such a secure retreat as I wanted, I thought that was
a convenience; so that I really rejoiced at the discovery,
and resolved, without delay, to bring some of those
things which I was most anxious about to this place;
particularly my magazine of powder, and all my spare
arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, and three muskets; so
nonmsox cavsos. 16-5
pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were ready
also to take out upon any expedition.
On removing my ammunition, I was obliged to open
the barrel of gunpowder which I took out of the sea,
and I found that the water had penetrated about three
or four inches into the powder on every side, which
caking and growing hard, had' reserved the inside
like a kernel in a shell, so that I ad sixty pounds of
very good powder in the centre of the cask; an
agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried
all away thither, never keeping above two or three
pounds of powder in my castle, for fear of a sur rise
of any kind. I also put there all the lead I ha left
for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in rocks,
where none could come at them ; for I persuaded my-
nonmsox cavsos. 16-5
hunt me, they would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat died in the mouth of the cave, the day
after I made this discovery, and I found it much
easier to dig a hole there, and throw him in, and
cover him with earth, than to drag him out, so I in-
terred him there, to prevent offence to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the place, and
manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed the
certainty that no savages would come to the lace, I
could have been content to capitulate for s ending the
rest of my time there, even till I had lai me down -
and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also
arrived to some little diversions and amusements. which
made the time pass more pleasantly than it did be-
166 nonrxson causes.
did it so familiarly, and articulated so p ain, that it
was very pleasant to me; and he lived with me no
less than six-and-twenty years. How long he might
live afterwards I know not; for they have a notion,
in the Brazils, that they live a hundred years. Per-
haps poor Poll may be alive there still, calling for
“Poor Robin Crusoe" to this day. My dog was a
very pleasant and loving com union for no less than
sixteen years of my time, an then he died of mere
old age. As for my cats they so multiplied that I
166 nonrxson causes.
them from devouring me, and all I had; but when
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and
after some time continually driving them from me
and giving them no provision, they all ran wild inl$
the woods, except two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I
alwa s drowned; and these were part of my family.
Besi es these, I always kept two or three household
kids about me, which I taught to feed out of my hand,
and I had some more parrots, which talked pretty
well, and would all call “ Robin Crusoe,” but none like
166 nonrxson causes.
I had done with him. I had also severaltame sea
fowls, whose names I knew not, which I had caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little
stakes which I had planted before my castle wall,
being now grown up to a good thick grove, those
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there,
which was very agreeable to me; so that I became
well contented with the life I led, if it might but have
been secured from the dread of the savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be
amiss for the readers of my story, to make this just
observation from it; viz. how frequently, in the com-sq


of our lives, the evil, which in itself we seek most to
shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most
dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means of our
deliverance, by which alone we can be raised from the
sonmsos cavsoa. 167
remarkable in the circumstances of. the last years of
m solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, in my twenty-
third year, and this being the southern solstice, for
winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of
my harvest, and required my being much abroad in
sonmsos cavsoa. 167
it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing
sonmsos cavsoa. 167
two miles, towards the end of the island where I had
observed some savages had been before, but not on the
sonmsos cavsoa. 167
of the island.
I was terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I
might be surprised: yet I had no more peace within,
from the fear I had that if these savages in rambling
sonmsos cavsoa. 167
or any of my works or improvements, they would at
once conclude that there were people in the place, and
would not rest till they found me out. In this ex-
tremit I Went directly back to my castle, pulled up
the ladder after me, having made all things without
look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in
a state of defence. I loaded all my cannon, that is,
sonmsos cavsoa. 167
and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the
last, not forgetting to commend myself to the Divine
protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me
from the barbarians; and thus continued two hours,
but began to be mighty impatient for intelligence
abroad.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I could not bear sitting in
ignorance any longer, so setting up my ladder to the
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and
mounted to the top of the hill, and pulling out my
perspective glass, which I had taken on purpose, I
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
for the place. I saw no less than nine naked savages
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
them, they had no need of that, the weather being
extremel hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
brought with them, whether alive or dead, I could
not know.
The had two canoes with them, which they had
hauledy up upon the shore, and as it was then tide of
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
go away again. It is not easy to imagine what con-
fusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them
come on my side of the island, and so near me too:
but when I observed their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
they were not ashore before; therefore I went about
my harvest work with the more composure.
- As I expected so it proved, for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row away. I should have observed, they were all
quite naked, and, for an hour and more before they
went oif, they danced, and I could easily discern their
grotesque postures and gestures by my glasses.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two istols at my
girdle, and my great sword by my si e, without a
scabbard, and with all speed I went to the hill where
168 nosnssorz car'soa.
thither, which was not less than two hours, I saw
there had been three canoes more of savages there,
and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to-
gether, making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me; especially when
going down to the shore, I saw the dismal work they
had been about, viz. the blood and bones, and art
nonrssox causes. 169
those wretches with merriment and sport, I was so
nonrssox causes. 169
premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw
there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident that the visits which they made
to this island were not frequent; for it was above
nonrssox causes. 169
that is, I never saw them, or any footste s or si als
of them in all that time; and I found 51c di not
come in the rainy season; yet all this whi e I lived
uncomfortably, from the constant apprehensions of
their coming upon me b surprise.
During all this time, was in the murderin hu-
mour, and took up most of my hours, which s ould
have been better employed, in contriving how to fall
upon them the very next time I should see them,
especially if they should be divided, as they were the
last time, into two parties; nor did I consider at all,
that if I killed one arty, suppose ten or a dozen, I
was still the next ay, or week, or month, to kill
nonrssox causes. 169
should be no less a murderer then they were in being
man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. _
I spent my days now in great perplexity of mind,
expecting one day or other to fall into the hands of
these merciless creatures. Yet I found to m great
comfort, how happy it was that I had provid a tame
nonrssox causes. 169
gun, especially near that side of the island, where they
usually came, lest I should aarm the savages; and if
170_ nonmsos onosoe.
come back, with a great number more, and then I
knew what to expect. However, I wore out a year
and three months more, before I saw any of the sava-
ges; but in the month of May, as near as I could cal-
culate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a
very strange encounter with them, of which in its
lace. ,
170_ nonmsos onosoe.
months‘ interval, was very great. In the day great
troubles overwhelmed my mind ; in the night 1 dream-
ed often of killing savages. and the reasons to justify
the doin of it. But it was the middle of May, the six-
teenth, think, that it blew a great storm all day,
with vast lightning and thunder, and a very foul
night it was. I know not what was the particular
cause of it, but as I was reading the Bible, and taken
up with serious thoughts about my present condition,
I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought,
170_ nonmsos onosoe.
This was a surprise of quite a different nature from
any I had met with before, for the notions this put
into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I start-
ed up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice,
cla ped u my ladder to the middle place of the rock,
an pulle it after me, and mounting it the second
170_ nonmsos onosoe.
170_ nonmsos onosoe.
dingly, in about halfa minute I heard, and by the
sound, I knew that it was from that part of the sea
where I was driven out by the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this mut be some
ship in distress, and that they had some other ship in
170_ nonmsos onosoe.
' and to obtain help. I had this presence of mind to
think, that though I could not hel them, they might
help me; so I brought together allJ the dry wood I
could get at hand, and making a good sized pile, I set
aonnzsox causes. 171
freely : and though the wind blew very hard, yet it
burnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was a
ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt they did,
aonnzsox causes. 171
and after that several others, from the same quarter.
aonnzsox causes. 171
it was broad day, and the air cleared-up, I saw some-
thing at a great distance at sea, full east of the island,
whether a. sail, or a hull, I could not distinguish with
my glasses, the distance was so great, and the weather
hazy out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move ; so I concluded that it was
aonnzsox causes. 171
my gun and ran towards the south-east side of the is-
land, to the rocks, where I had been formerly carried
away with the current, and getting 11 there, the weather
by this time being perfectly clear, could plainly see,
to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in
the night upon these concealed rocks, which, as they
checked the violence of the stream, and made a coun-
ter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my recover-
ing then from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in.
Thus, what is one man’s safety is another man’s
destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven u on them
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. an E.N.E.
Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily sup-
pose they did not, they must have tried to save them-
selves on shore by the help of their boat; but the
aonnzsox causes. 171
aonnzsox causes. 171
First, I imagined that, upon seeing my light, they
might have got into their boat, and have tried to make
the shore, but that the sea going very high, they were
east away. Then I imagined that they might have
lost their boat before, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which oft obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard
with their own hands. Or that they had some other
ship or ships in company, which, upon the signals of
distress they had made, had taken them up, and car-
ried them otf. Then I fancied they were all gone off
to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were carried out
into the ocean, where there was nothing but mise
and perishing, and that they might by this time thin
172 nonrn'sox encson.
As these were but conjectures, so, in the condition
I was in, I could only look upon the misery of the
172 nonrn'sox encson.
on my side, that it gave me more cause to give thanks
to God, who had so comfortably provided for me in
my desolate condition; and that of two ships' com-
panies new cast away upon this part of the world,
not one life should be spared but mine. Here I was
taught, that it is ve rare the Providence of God
casts us into any con ition of life so low, or any mis-
ery so great, but we may see something to be thank-
fu for, and may see others worse than ourselves.
Such was the case of these men, of whom I could not
see room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing
could make it rational, so much as expect that they
did not all perish, except the were taken up by
another ship: and this was ut mere possibility;
for I saw not the least appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain by words, what a strange feelin
I had on this sight, saying sometimes thus :—“
that there had been but one or two, nay but one soul
saved out of the ship, to have escaped to me, that I
might have had one com anion, one fellow-creature,
to ave conversed with !’ In all the time of my soli-
tary life, I never felt so strong a desire, after the so-
ciety of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the
want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affections,
which, when moved by some object in view, or some
object not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by
the power of imagination, whose motion carries out
the soul by its impetuosity to such violent eager em-
bracings of the object, that the absence of it is insup-
portable.
“ O that it had been but one !” and I believe I re-
peated the words “ O that it had been but one !” a
thousand times; and my desires were so moved by it,
that when I spoke the words, my hands would clench
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 173
that if I had had any thing soft in my hand it would
have crushed it; and my teeth in my head would
strike together, and set against one another so strong,
that for some time I could not part them again.
Let naturalists explain these things, and the rea~
son of them; all I can say is, to describe the fact, so
surprising to me when I found it, though I knew not
from what it should proceed; it was, doubtless, the
effect of strong ideas and ardent wishes of my mind,
realizing the comfort which the conversation of a fel-
low-christian would have been to me.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or
both, forbade it; for, till the last year of my being in
this island, I never knew whether any were saved
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 173
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy
washed on shore, at the end of the island, which was
next the shipwreck. He had on a seaman’s waist-
coat, a pair of open-knee’d linen drawers, and a blue
linen shirt: but nothing to direct me to guess what
nation he was of. He had nothing in his ocket but
two pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe. T e last was
ROBINSON CRUSOB. 173
It was now calm, and I had a mind to venture out
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
a,“
174
thing on board that might be useful to me; and pos-
sibly there might be some living creature on board,
whose life I might not only save, but might, by sav-
ing that life, comfort my own ; and this thought
clung so to my heart, that I could not be quiet night
or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board
this wreck; and committing the rest to God’s Provi—
dence, I thought the impression was so strong upon
my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must
come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go.
Then I hastened to my castle, prepared every thing
for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot
of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum
(for I had still a deal of that left,) a basket of raisins,
and thus I went down to my boat, got the water out
174
and then went home for more. My second cargo was
a great bag full of rice, the umbrella to set up over
my head for a shade, another pot full of fresh water,
and two dozen of my small loaves, or barley cakes,
with a bottle of goat’s milk, and a cheese; all of
which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to my
boat, and praying God to direct my voyage, I put
out; and rowing or paddling the canoe along the
shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the is-
land, N. E And now I was to launch out into the
ocean, and either to venture or not venture. I looked
on the ra id currents which ran constantly on both
sides of the island, at a distance, and which were very
“terrible to me, from the hazard I had been in before, and
my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw, that if I was
driven into either of these currents, I should be car-
ried far out to sea, perhaps out of sight of the island
again; and that, as my boat was but small, if any
gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I be-
gun to give over my enterprise, and having hauled my
oat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out,
sad sat down upon a rising ground, very pensive and
anxious, between fear and desire about my voyage;
when, as I was musing, I saw that the tide was turn-
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
for so many hours impracticable. But it presently
occurred to me, that I should go up to the highest
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
came in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven
one way out, I might not be driven another way home,
with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought
was no sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the
currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to
guide myself in my return. Here I found that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current set in close by the shore of ~
the north side; and that I had only to kee to the
north of the island in my return, and I shoul do well
enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
reposing myself for that night in the canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out in the
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
nonnzson‘ causes. I75
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate,
and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side cur-
rent had done before, and so as to take from me all
government of the boat; but, having a strong steerage
with my paddle, I went directly for the wreck, and in
l'ess than two hours I came up to it,
It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which
by the building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in
between two rocks; all her stern and quarter was
beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle,
which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great vio-
lence, her main-mast and fore-mast were brought
the board, that is, broken short 03'; but her bowsprit
176 aoatxsou cansos.
came closeto her, a dog appeared upon her, which
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as
I called him, jumped into the sea to come to me; and
I took him into the boat, and found him almost dead
for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving for a fortnight in the snow. I then gave
him some fresh water, with which, if I had have let
him, he would have burst himself.
176 aoatxsou cansos.
with was two men drowned in the cook room, or
forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another. I concluded, as is probable, that when the
ship struck, being in a storm, the sea broke so high,
- and continually over her, that the men were strangled
with the constant rushing in of the water, as much as
if they had been under water. Besides the dog, there
was nothing left in the ship that had life, or any goods,
but what were spoiled by the water. There were some
casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not,
which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water
being ebbed out, I could see, but they were too big
to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I be-
lieved belonged to some of the seamen, and I got two
of them into the boat, without examining what was
in them.
176 aoatxsou cansos.
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board; and, if I may guess by the
course she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio do la Plata, in the south
. part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havan-
nah, in the gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain.
I found also a cask full of liquor, about twenty gal-
nonruson' causos. 177
There were several muskets in a cabin, and a powder-
horn, with about four pounds of powder in it; as for
the muskets, I had no need of them, so I left them,
nonruson' causos. 177
tongs, which I much wanted; also two little brass
kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron;
and with this cargo and the dog I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again; and the same even-
ing, about an hour within night, I reached the island
again, fati ued to the last degree.
I reposeg that night in the boat, and in the mom-
ing I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my
new cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After
refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and
began to examine it. The cask of liquor was a kind
of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils, and
not good. But in the chests, I found several things
nonruson' causos. 177
nonruson' causos. 177
bottles held about three pints each, and were tiptped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succa es,
or sweetmeats, so fastened on top, that the salt water
had not hurt them; and two which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were
very welcome to me, and about a dozen and a half of
white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths:
the former were also very welcome, being very re-
freshing to wipe my face in a hot day. In the till in
the chest, I found three great bags of pieces of eight,
which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and
in one of them, wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons of
gold, and some small bars of gold; they might all
Weigh near a ound.
The other e est had some clothes in it, but of little
1.
value ; but by the circumstances it must have belonged
to the gunner‘s mate; there was no powder in it, but
about two pounds of glazed powder in three small
178 nonmsorr onwson.
pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got little by
this voyage that was of much use to me, for, as to the
money, it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I
would have given it all for three or four pairs of Eng-
lish shoes and stockings, which I greatly wanted, for
I had not had a pair on my feet for many years. I
had, indeed, taken two pair of shoes off the feet of the
two men whom I found drowned in the wreck; and I
found two pair in one of the chests, which were very
welcome to me; but they were not like our English
shoes, either for ease or service, being rather pumps
than shoes. I found in this seamnn’s chest about
178 nonmsorr onwson.
this belonged to a poorer man than the other, w ich
178 nonmsorr onwson.
I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid it
up, as I had done that which I had brought from my
ship; but it was a pity that the other part of the shi
had not come to my share, for I might have loaded)
my canoe several times with money, which, if I had
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe
enough till I might have fetched it. '
Having brought all my things on shore, and se-
cured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed
her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid
her up, and went to my old habitation, where I found
every thing safe and quiet; so I began to repose my-
self, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs; and for a while I lived easy enough,
but was more vigilant than I used to be, and did not
go abroad so much: and if I did, it was always to the
east part of the island, where I was pretty well satis-
178 nonmsorr onwson.
without so many precautions, and such a load of arms
and ammunition as I always carried with me if I went
the other way.
I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all these
nonnvsou onusos. I79
were possible, I might get away from this island; for
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me, that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe if I had got the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea.
I have been in all my circumstances, a memento
to those who are touched with that general plague
nonnvsou onusos. I79
nonnvsou onusos. I79
wherein God hath placed them. For, not to look back
upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice
of my father, the opposition to which was, as I may
call it, my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the
same kind have been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence,
which so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a
nonnvsou onusos. I79
have been contented to go on gradually, I might
have been b this time, one of the most considerable
planters in t e Brazils; nay, I am persuaded that, by
the improvements I had made in that little time I lived
there, and the increase I should have made if I had
stayed, I might have been worth a hundred thousand
moidores. And what business had I to leave a settled
fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and in~
creasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch Ne-
groes, when time would have so increaed our stock
at home, that we could have bought them at our own
doors from those whose business it was to fetch them,
and though it had cost us something more, yet the
180 ROBINSON causes.
great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so
180 ROBINSON causes.
of more ears, or of the dear-bought experience of
time; an so it is with me now; and yet so deep had
the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could
not satisfy myself in my station, but was always pot-
ing upon the possibility of my escape.
One night, in the rainy season in March, the four-
180 ROBINSON causes.
of solitariness, I had the following dream; viz. that
as I was going out in the morning from my castle, I
saw upon the shore two canoes, and eleven savages
coming to land, and that they brought with them
another savage, whom they were going to kill, in or-
der to eat him, when on a sudden that savage made
his escape, and ran for his life: and then I thought
in my sleep, that he came running into my little
180 ROBINSON causes.
that I seeing him, and not perceiving that the others
sought him that way, showed m self to him, and en-
couraged him; that he kneeled own to me, przying
me to assist him; upon which I showed my I der,
made him go upon it, and carried him into my cave,
and he became my servant; and that as soon as I had
got this man, I said to myself, “ Now I may venture
to the main land, for this fellow will serve me as a pi-
lot, and tell me what to do, and whither to go for pro-
visions, and whither not to go for fear of being de-
voured; what places to venture into, and what to
escape." I awoke, and was under such incxpressible
impressions of jo at the prospect of my escape in my
180 ROBINSON causes.
was only a dream, threw me into great dejection of
spirits.
But I came to this conclusion, that my only way to
go about anattempt toescapc, was, to try to get a
savage in my possession; and~ if possible, one of their
prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten, and
should bring hither to kill ; but the plan had this dif-
ROBINSON causes. 181
ing a whole caravan of them, and killing them all;
and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry, but, on the other hand, I had greatly
scru led the lawfulness of it to me, and my heart
trem led at the thoughts of shedding blood, even for
my deliverance.
However, at last, after great perplexities about it,
the eager desire of deliverance at length mastered all
the rest, and I resolved, if possible, to get one of these
savages into my hands, cost what it would. ‘My next
thing was to contrive how to do it; and this was very
ROBINSON causes. 181
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myse f upon
the watch, to see them when they came on shore, and
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the op rtunity should present.
Wit these resolutions, I set myself upon the scout,
as often as possible, and indeed so often, till I was
heartily tired of it; for I waited above a year and a
half, and for a great part of that time went out to the
west end, and to the south-west corner of the island,
almost every day, to see for the canoes, but none ap-
peared. This was very discouraging, and troubled
me much; though I cannot say that it did in this
case, as it had done some time before that, wear
off the edge of my desire to the thing; but the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it.
ROBINSON causes. 181
sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them,
than I was now eager to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make
them entirely slaves to me, to do what I should direct
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to
do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased
myself with this affair; but nothing still presented:
all my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages came near me for a great while.
About a year and a half after this, I was surprised
182 ROBINSON earsoa.
noes, all on shore together, on my side of the island,
and the peo le who belonged to them all landed, The
number of t em broke all my measures, for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came four or
sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what to
think of it, or how to take any measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed, so I lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I
put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for
action, if any thing had resented. Having waited.
a good while, listening to ear if they made any noise,
at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the
foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the
hill by my two stages, as usual ; but standing so that
my head did not appear above the hill ; so that they
could not perceive me. I here observed, by the help
of my perspective glass, that they were no less than
182 ROBINSON earsoa.
that they had meat dresse ; how they cooked it, that
I knew not, or what it was; but they were all dancing
182 ROBINSON earsoa.
182 ROBINSON earsoa.
While thus looking on them, I perceived two mis-
erable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out
for slaughter. I saw one of them immediately fall,
bein knocked down with a club, or wooden sword,
for at was their way; and two or three others were
at work, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing, till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment this poor wreteh
seeing himself a little at liberty, nature inspired him
'with iopes of life, and he started away from them,
and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands,
directly towards me, I mean towards that part of the
coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frightened when I saw him run
my way, and especiall when, as I thought, I saw
him pursued by the w ole body; and I expected that
part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he
Would take shelter in my grove; but I could not de-
pend upon my dream for the rest of it, viz. that the
nonmson causon. 183
there. However, i kc 1: my station, and my spirits
began to recover when found that not above three
men followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstrip ed them exceedingly
in running, and gained groun on them, so that if
he could but hold out for half an hour, I saw he would
get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
nonmson causon. 183
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this
I knew he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there; but when the savage
who was escaping, came thither, he made nothing of
it, though the tide was up, but plunging in, he swam
through it in about thirty strokes, landed, and ran on
with amazing swiftuess. When the three pursuers
came to the creek, I found that two of them could
swim, but the third could not, and he, standing on the
other side, looked at the others, but went no farther,
and soon after went softly back again, which, as it
ha pened, was very well for him.
{observed that the two who swam were et twice
as long swimming over the creek, as the f0 low was
nonmson causon. 183
my thoughts, that now was my time to get a servant,
and, perhaps, a companion or assistant, and that I
was called plainly, by Providence, to save this oor
creature’s llfe. I immediately got down the lad ers,
fetched my two guns, for they were at the foot of the
ladders, and getting up again with the same haste to
the top of the hill, I crossed towards the sea ; and,
having a very short cut down hill, clapped myself in
the way between the pursuers and the ursued, hal-
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
beckoned with my hand to him to come back, and,
in the mean time, I slowly advanced towards the two
that followed; then rushing at once upon the fore-
most, I knocked him down with the stock of my
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
the rest to hear, though at that distance it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of
the smoke, they would not have known what to make
of it. Having lmocked this fellow down, the other
who followed him, stopped, as if he had been fright-
ened, and I advanced towards him ; but as I came
nearer, I perceived he had a bow and arrow, and was
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
though he saw both his enemies fall, and killed, (as
he thought,) yet was so frightened with the noise and
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
came forward nor went backward, though he seemed
184 ROBINSON cnvson.
loed again, and made signs to him to come forward,
which be easily understood, and came a little way,
sto ped again; and then he stood trembling, as if
he been taken prisoner, and was to be killed, as
his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of encourage-
ment that I could think of ; and he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in
token of acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled
at him, and looked pleasantl , and beckoned him
to come still nearer. At leng he came close to me,
and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground,
and taking my foot, set it upon his head ; this, it
nonrnsos causes. ' 185
ever. I took him u , and made much of him, and
encouraged him all could.
But, I perceived the savage whom I knocked down
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself. So I pointed to him, showing
him the savage, that he was not dead; upon this he
spoke some words to me, and though I could not un-
derstand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to
nonrnsos causes. ' 185
nonrnsos causes. ' 185
twenty years. But there was no time for such re-
nonrnsos causes. ' 185
recovered himself so far as to sit upon the ground, and
my savage began to be afraid; but I presented my
0t er piece at the man, as if I would shoot him; upon
this my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion
to me to lend him m sword, which hung naked in a
belt by my side; so did. He no sooner had it than
he ran to his enemy, and, at one blow, out off his
head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could
have done it sooner or better; which I thought very
strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a sword in his life before, except their own wood-
en swords. However, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so hea ,
nonrnsos causes. ' 185
and arms with them at one blow. When he had done
this, he came laughing to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again, and laid it down, with
the head of the savage he had killed just before me.
He was astonished how I had killed the other In-
dian, so far off; and, going to him, he stood amazed,
nonrnsos causes. ' 185
ROBINSON CRUSOE-
.-\
the other; looked at the wound the bullet had made
in the breast, where it had made a hole, and no great
quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, and was quite dead. Then he took up his bow
and arrows, and came back, and I beckoned for us to
go away, making signs that more might come after
them. Upon this, he signed to me, that he should
bury them with sand, that they might not be seen
by the rest, if they followed; so I made signs for him
to do so; he fell to work, and had them both buried
in the sand in about a quarter of an hour. I then
called him away, and took him not to my castle, but
my cave, on the farther part of the island. I did not
let my dream come to pass inthat respect, viz. that he
came into my grove for shelter. I gave him bread,
and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a drought of water,
which he was in great distress for, by his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go
to sleep, pointing to a. place where I had laid a great
parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it which I
slept upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature laid
down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, tall, and well shaped, and about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not
186
manly in his face, an yet he had all the sweetness
and softness of an European in his countenance, es-
ecially when he smiled. His hair was long and
black, not curled like wool, his forehead high and large,
and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black, but
very tawny, and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous,
tawny, as the Brazilians, and Virginians, and other
natives of America are, but of a bright dun olive
:colour, very agreeable, though not easy to describe.
‘His face was round and plump, his nose small, not
186
nonmsos caosos. 187
ter he had slumbered about half an hour, he waked,
and came out of the cave to me, for I had been milk-
ing the goats in the enclosure just b . When he es-
pied me, he came running, and lai himself on the
ground again, with all the possible signs of an hum-
ble, thankful disposition, making many antic gestures
nonmsos caosos. 187
ground, close to my foot, and set my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before, and made all the signs
of subjection, and submission, and how much he would
serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in
many things, and let him know I was pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and
nonmsos caosos. 187
his name should be Friday, the day on which I saved
his life. I taught him to say “ Master,” and let him
know that was to be my name. I taught him to say,
“ Yes,” and “ No," and to lmow the meaning of them.
I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and some
bread, and let him see me drink some before him, and
sop my bread in it, which he quickly imitated, and
made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I took him away with me. As we went
by the place where we had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the spot, and showed me the marks
nonmsos caosos. 187
that we should dig them up and eat them: at this I
appeared very angry, expressed in abhorrence of it,
made as if I would vomit at the t oughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which
he did with great submission. I then led him to the
top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and
pulling out my glass, I saw plainly the place where
they had been, but no appearance of them or their ca-
noes; so they were quite gone.
I then took my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand. with the bow and arrows at
his back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self, and awe we marched to the place where these
creatures ha been. When I came there, my blood
ran chill, and my heart sunk within me at the horror
of the spectacle. 0 it was a dreadful sight; the place
was covered with human bones, the ground dyed with
188 nonrssou causes.
eaten, mangled and scorched, and all the tokens of the
triumphant feast after a victory over their enemies.
188 nonrssou causes.
or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of
the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me under-
stand, that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon, that three of them were eaten, and that he,
pointing to himself, was the fourth; and that there
ad been a great battle between them and their next
king, whose subject he had been, and that they had
taken a great number of risoners, all of which were
188 nonrssou causes.
188 nonrssou causes.
188 nonrssou causes.
and lay them in a heap, and burn them to ashes. I
found that he had still an hankering stomach after the
188 nonrssou causes.
played such abhorrenee at the thoughts of it, that he
durst not discover it; for I let him know that I would
kill him if he offered it.
When we came back to our castle, I gave Friday a
pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor
gunner’s chest in the wreck, and which, with a little
188 nonrssou causes.
'erkin of goat’s skin, as well as I was able ; and I gave
im a cap, which I had made of a hare‘s skin; and
thus he was dressed, for the present, tolerabl well;
and mighty well was he pleased to see himse almost
as well clothed as his master. He went awkwardly in
nosmson causos. 189
awkward to him, and the sleeves of the jerkin galled
his shoulders, and the inside of his arms; but he soon
got used to them.
The day after I came home to my hut with him, I
began to consider where to lodge him; so I made a
little tent for him in the vacant place between the two
nosmson causos. 189
nosmson causos. 189
cave, I made a framed door-case, and a door to it of
boards, and set it up in the passage, a little within
the entrance, and causing the door to open in the in-
side, I barred it up in the ni ht, taking in my lad-
ders too; so that Friday coul not come at me in the
inside of my innermost wall, without making so much
nosmson causos. 189
wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles,
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of
the hill, which was again laid across with small sticks
instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thick-
ness with the rice straw, which was strong like reeds;
and at the hole which was left to go in or out by the
ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it
had been attem ted on the outside, would not have
opened, but won (1 have fallen down, and made a great
noise. I took all the weapons into my side every
night.
But I needed none of these precautions, for never
was a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Fri-
day was to me; his affections were tied to me, like
those of a child to its father, and he would have sac-
nosmson causos. 189
occasion whatever.
This caused me frequently to observe, with wonder,
that however it had pleased God in his Providence,
to take from so many of his creatures the best uses to
which the powers of their souls are adapted, yet thal
he has bestowed upon them the same powers, reason,
190 nosruson causes.
obligation, the same resentments of wrong, the same
190 nosruson causes.
pacities of doing good, and receiving good, that he
as given to us; and that when he pleases to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are more ready,
to apply them to the right uses for which they were
bestowed, than we are. It made me very melancholy
190 nosruson causes.
these, though we have these powers enlightened by
the great lamp of instruction, the Word and Spirit of
God; and why it has pleased God to hide the like
saving knowledge from so many millions of souls,
who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would
make a much better use of it than we do.
Hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and to arraign the justice
of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide
that light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet
expect a like duty from both. But I checked my
190 nosruson causes.
by w at law these should be condemned; but that
190 nosruson causes.
if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from
himself, it was on account of sinuing against that
light, which, as the Scripture says, was a law to them-
selves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was
not discovered to us: and secondly, that still, as we
are all clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could
sagto him, “ Why hast thou formed me thus ?”
ut to return to my new companion; I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper and useful, and
especially to make him speak, and understand me
when I spoke: and he was a very apt scholar, and
he was so merry, so diligent, and so pleased when he
could understand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very pleasant for me to talk to him. And
now my life began to be very easy and happy.
After I had been two or three days in my castle,
I thought, that in order to bring Friday from the
relish of a cannibal’s stomach, I ought to let him taste
nonnzson causon. 191'
to the woods, and I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids. I catehed hold of Fri-
da ; “ Hold,” said I; _“stand still ;" and made signs
to im not to stir; immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature
who had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the sav-
age, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine,
how it was done, was surprised, trembled, and shook,
and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I had shot at,
nor perceive I had killed it, but rip ed 11 his waist-
coat to feel if he was not wounded); and thought I
was resolved to kill him; for he came and kneeled
down to me, and embracing my knees, said many
things I did not understand, but his meaning was to
pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm; and, taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid I had killed,
beckoned him to fetch it; and while he was looking
to see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
again, and by and by I saw a great fowl sit upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand what
I would do, I called him to me, pointing at the fowl,
which was a parrot, though I thought it was a hawk;
I say, (pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and to the
groun under the parrot, to let him see I would make
him fall, I made him understand that I would shoot
nonnzson causon. 191'
look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. He
stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all
I had said to him; and he was the more amazed, be-
cause he did not see me put any thing into the gun;
but thou ht there must be some wonderful fund of
death an destruction in that thing, able to kill man,
beast, bird, or an other thing, near or far off; and if
I would have let him, he would have worshipped me
and my gun; the gun he would not touch for several
days after, but would talk to it, as if it answered him,
which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire
it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at
this, I pointed to him to fetch the bird I had shot,
which e did, but stayed some time, for the parrot,
192 ao'nmsou causes.
the place where she fell. However, he found her, and
brought her to me; and, as I had perceived his ig-
norance about the gun before, I charged the gun
again, and not let him see me do it, that I might be
192 ao'nmsou causes.
brought home the kid, and the same evening took the
skin off, and cut it up; and having a pot for that pur-
192 ao'nmsou causes.
roth: after I had eat some, I gave some to my man,
who liked it well; but that which was strangest to
him was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign
that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a. little
into his mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would
spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh
water after it; on the other hand, I took some meat
in my mouth without salt, and pretended to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at it,
but it would not do.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth. I
resolved to feast him the next day with roasted kid;
192 ao'nmsou causes.
had seen done in England, setting two poles up, one
192 ao'nmsou causes.
tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat
turn continually. This Friday admired much; but
nonnzsox cnuson. 193
ways to tell me how he liked it, that I could not but
understand him; and at last he told me he would
nonnzsox cnuson. 193
The next day I set him to beating some corn out, and
sifting it as I used to do; and he soon understood how
to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen that
it was to make bread of ; for after that I let him see me
make my bread and bake it too; and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me as well as
I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that having two mouths to
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground, and
lant a larger duantity of corn. So I marked out a
arger piece of and, and fenced it as before, in which
Friday worked very hard and cheerfully; and I told
him it was for corn to make more bread, because he
was now with me, and that I might have enough for
both. He appeared very sensible of that part, and let
me know that he would work the harder for me if I
would tell him what to do.
This was the leasantest year of all the life I led in
this place. Fri ay began to talk pretty well, and un-
derstood the names of almost eve thing I called for,
and of every place I had to send im to, and talk a
great deal to me; so that I began to have some use for
my tongue again. Besides I had a singular satisfaction
in the fellow himself; his simple, unfeigned honesty
appeared to be more and more every day, and I began
really to love the creature; and I believe he loved me
as much as possible.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankerin
inclination to his own country; and having learne
him English so well, that he could answer me almost
any uestions, I asked him whether the nation that
he be on ed to never conquered in battle. At which
nonnzsox cnuson. 193
better 5" that is, he meant, always get the better in
I
194 nosnssox causes.
194 nosnssox causes.
you to be taken prisoner then, Friday l”
Friday—My nation beat much for all that.
Master.—How beat ? If your nation beat them how
come you to be taken ?
E'z'day.-They more than my nation in the place
where me was: thoy take one, two, three and me.
My nation over-heat them in yonder place, where me
no gas; there my nation take one, two, great thou-
san .
Maiden—But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday—They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoes : my nation have no canoe that
time.
Madam—Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take ? Do they carry them away
and eat them, as these did P
E'iday.-—Yes, my nation eat man’s too, eat all up.
.Master.-—\Vhore do they carry them 1’
Friday—Go to other place, where they think.
Huston—Do they come hither ‘3
E'iday.—Yes, yes, they come hither: come other
else place.
Master.—Have you been there with them P
Frida .—Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W.
side of t e island, which it seems was their sideg
By this I understood that my man Friday be for-
merly been among the savages, who had used to come
on shore on the farther parts of the island, on the said
man-eating occasions that he had been now brought
for: and some time after, when I took courage to
carry him to that side, he presently knew the place,
and told me he was there once when they eat up
twenty men, two women, and one child.
After this discourse, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore; whether the canoes were not
often lost. He said there was no danger, no canoes
ever lost; that, after a little way out to sea, there was
a current, and a wind always one way in the morning,
the other in the afternoon.
This I thought to be no more than the sets of
vthe tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterwards
noamson causes. 195
of the mighty river Oronoque; in the mouth of which
river, our island lay; and that this land, which I er-
ceived to the W. and N. W., was the island Trini ad.
on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
inhabitants, the sea, and coast, and what nations were
near: and he readily told me all he knew. I asked
him the names of the several nations of his sort of
geople, but could get no other name than caribs;
m whence I easily understood that these were the
Caribbees, which our maps place on that part of
America which reaches from the mouth of the river
Oronoque to Guiana. He told me that u a great
way beyond the moon, which must be west om their
coun , there dwelt white bearded men, like me, and
ointe to my great whiskers, and that they had kil-
ed “much mans,” that was his word. By which he
meant the Spaniard, whose crueltics in America had
been spread over whole countries, and were remem-
berd by all the nations from father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island, and get among those white men 1" He
told me yes, yes, I might go in “ two canoe." I could
noamson causes. 195
noamson causes. 195
a large boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday’s discourse began to relish with
me very well; and from this time I entertained some
noamson causes. 195
tunity to make my esca from this place, and that
this poor savage might a means to help me to do it,
In trying to lay a foundation of religious knowledge
in Pride 's mind, I asked him one time who ma 0
him. T e poor creature did not understand me, but
thought I had asked him who was his father. Then
I asked him who made the sea, the ground he walked
on, the hills and woods. _ He said it was one old Bena-
muckee, that lived beyond all. He could describe
nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old ; much older than the sea or land, than the moon
or stars. I asked him, if this person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him ? He look-
ed very grave, and with a look 0 innocence said,
“ All things said O to him.” I asked him if the peo-
ple who die in his country went away any where. He
said, yes, they all went away to Benamuckee. Then
I asked him whether those they eat up went thither
too; he said “ Yes."
Thus I began to instruct him in the knowledge of
the true God. I told him, that the great Maker of
all things lived up there, pointing towards heaven,
that he governs the world by the same power by which
he had made it: that he is omnipotent, could do every
thing for us, give every thing to us, take every thing
from us: and thus, by degrees I opened his eyes. He
listened with great attention, and received with lea-
sure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to re eem
us, and of the we of making our prayersto God, and
his being able to hear us in heaven. He said that if
our God could hear us beyond the sun, he must needs
be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who lived
but a little way oif, and could not hear till they went
up to the eat mountains, where he dwelt, to speak
to him. asked him if he ever went thither to him:
he said, no ; they never went that were young men;
none but the old men. called their Oowokakee, that
is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious, or
clergy; and that they went to say 0 (so he called say-
ing prayers,) and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed that there is
riestcraft even amongst the most blinded ignorant
gagans in the world.
I told him, that the pretence of their old men oing
up to the mountains to saiO! to their god ena-
muekee, was a cheat; and t eir bringing word what
he said, was much more so; that if they met with any
answer, or spoke with any one there, it must be an
evil spirit; and then I discoursed with him about Sa-
tan, his origin, his rebellion against God, his enmity
to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the
dark parts of the world to be worshipped as God, and
his man stratagems to delude mankind to their ruin:
how he ad a secret access to our passions, and affec-
tions, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations, as to
cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run upon
our own destruction. by our own choice.
Nature assisted all my arguments to rove to him
the necessity of a great First Cause an over-ruling,
secret directing Providence, and of the equity and 'us-
tice of paying homage to him that madeus; butt ere
appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit, of his original, his being, his nature, and of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw as in to do so too.
And the poor creature puzzled me once in such a
manner, by a question merely natural and innocent,
that I scarce knew what to say to him. I had been
talking of the power of God, his omnipotence, his
aosrssou causes. 197
to the workers of iniquity: how, as he had made us
all, he could destroy us and all the world in a mo-
ment; and he listened with great seriousness to me
all the while. After I had been telling him how the
devil was God’s enemy in the hearts of men, and used
all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of
Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the
world:—“Well,” sa s Friday, “but you sa God is
so strong, so great, is e not much strong, mu might,
as the devil i‘”—“ Yes, yes,” said I, “Friday, God is
stronger than the devil, God is above the devil, and
therefore we pray to God to tread him under our feet,
and enable us to resist his temptations, and quench
198 nonmsox CRUSOE.
much strong, much might, as the devil, why God not
kill the devil, so make him no more wicked 'r'”
I was surprised at his question, and though I was
now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill
198 nonmsox CRUSOE.
ever, I said, “ God will at last punish him severely ;
he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast
198 nonmsox CRUSOE.
This did not satisfy Friday; for he repeated my
words, “Reserve at last? me no understand. But
why not kill the devil not kill great ago ?”—“You
may as well ask me,” said I, “ why God does not kill
you and me, when we do wicked things here that of-
fend him ; we are preserved to repent and be pardon-
ed." “Well, well,” says be, “t at well; so you, I,
devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God rdon
all.” Here I was run down a ain to the last egree,
and it was a testimony to me, ow the mere notions
of nature, though they will guide reasonable crea-
tures to the knowledge of a. God, and of worship or
homage to Him, as the consequences of our nature;
yet only divine revelation can form the knowledge of
Jesus Christ, and of a redemption purchased for us,
and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God’s throne;
and that, therefore, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, I mean
the Word of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for
198 nonmsox CRUSOE.
sary instructors of the souls of men in the saving
knowledge of God, and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the discourse, rising up hastily,
as u on some sudden occasion of going out, then send-
198 nonmsox CRUSOE.
prayed to God that he would assist by his Spirit the
heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the
light of the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling
him to himself, and would guide me to speak so to him
from the Word pf God, so that his conscience might
be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved.
When he came again to me, I discoursed with him
long upon the subject of redemption by the Saviour
of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preach-
ed from heaven, viz. repentance towards God, and
faith in our Lord Jesus. I explained to him as well
as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham, and
how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share
in the redemption, that he come only to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge,
in all the methods I took for this poor creature’s in-
struction, and must confess, what I believe all that
ROBINBON causes. 199
things 0 en to him, I really instructed myself in man
thingst at I either did not know before, but whic
occurred naturally to my mind, upon my searchin
into them for the information of this poor savage : an
I had more affection in my inquiry after things 11 on
this occasion than ever I felt before; so that whet er
this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I
had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to
me; my grief sat lighter upon me, my habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond measure, and when
ROBINBON causes. 199
onl been moved myself to look up to Heaven, and to
see the Hand that brought me thither, but was now
to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save
the life, and for aught I knew, the soul of a poor sav-
e, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion,
that he might know Christ Jesus, “whom to know is
life eternal."
In this thankul frame I continued the remainder of
my time, and the conversation between Friday and
me, made the three years, which we lived there to-
gether completely happy, if com lete happiness can
be found in a sublunm'y state. ’lhe savage was now
a good Christian, much better than I, though I hope.
and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
and comforted restored penitents. We had here the
200 aosrnson cnusoa.
to instruct, thanif we had been in England. I al-
ways read the Scriptures, and let him know as well as
I could, the meaning of what I had read.
After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
200 aosrnson cnusoa.
lish, to me, I acquainted him with my history. I let
him into the mystery of gunlpowder, and bullets, and
taught him how to shoot. gave him a knife, which
wonderfully delighted him, and I made him a. belt
with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we
wear hangers in, but in the frog, I gave him a
hatchet.
I described to him the countries of Europe, par-
ticularly England, which I came from ; how we lived,
worshipped God, behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I described
the wreck which I had been on board of, and showed
him as near as I could, the place where she lay; but
she had been all gone long ago.
I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
when I escaped, and which was now fallen almost to
pieces. Upon seeing the boat, Friday stood musing
some time, and said nothing. I asked him what he
studied upon, at last, says he, “ Me see such boat like
come to place at my nation."
200 aosrnson cnusoa.
examined farther into it, I understood that a boat,
like that, came on shore in the country where he lived;
that is, it was driven thither by stress of weather. I
imagined, that some European ship must have been
cast away on their coast, and the boat might get loose,
and drive ashore ; but was so dull that I never thought
of men escaping from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come, so I only asked for a des-
eri tion of the boat. .
riday described the boat well enough : but I bet-
ter understood him when he added with some warmth,
“ We save the white mans from drown.” Then I
asked him if there were an white mans, as he called
them, in the boat; “ Yes,’ he said, “the boat full of
white mans.” Iasked him “How man 1"" he told
nosruson causes. 201
became of them ?" He told me, “They live, they
dwell at my nation.”
Then I presently imagined, that these might be the
men belonving to the ship cast away in sight of my
island, and who, after the ship was struck on the rock,
and inevitabl lost, had saved themselves in their
boat, and Ian ed upon that wild shore among savages.
U on this, I inquired of him more critically, what
was eoome of them: he assured me they still lived
there, and had been there about four years, that the
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live.
I asked him, why they did not kill them, and eat
them. He said, “ No, they make brother with them,"
that is, as I understood him, a truce; then he added,
nosruson causes. 201
that is, they never eat any men, but such as come to
nosruson causes. 201
Sometime after this, being on the top of the hill, at
the east side of the island, from whence I had, in a
clear day, discovered the main or continent of Ameri-
ca, Friday looks very earnestl towards the main land,
and, in a kind of surprise, 5 a jumping and dan-
cing, and calls out to me; I asked him what was the
matter. “ 0 joy,” says he, “ 0 glad! There see my
country! there my nation 1”
The greatest pleasure appeared in his face, his eyes
sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange
eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own coun-
202 nonmsox canson.
so easy about In new man Friday as I was before;
and I made no oubt, but_ that if Friday could get
back to his own nation again, he would not only forget
all his religion, but all his obligation to me.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very so afterwards; but as my
jealousy increased, and hel me some weeks, I was
more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to
him as before, in which I was certainly in the wrong.
Whilst my jealousy lasted, I was every day pump-
in'g him to see if he would discover any of the new
thoughts, which I suspected were inhim; but I found
all he said was honest, and so innocent, that I could
202 nonmsox canson.
easiness, he made me entirel his own again; nor did
he in the least perceive that was uneasy, and there-
fore I could not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking 11 the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so t t we could not see the con-
tinent, I said, “ Friday, do not you wish yourself in
your own country, your own nation 3’” “Yes,” he
said. “I be much glad to be at my own nation."—
“ What would you do there ?” said I, “ would 011 turn
202 nonmsox canson.
He looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said,
“ No, no; Frida tell them to live good, tell them to
202 nonmsox canson.
m' ; no eat mans again.”—“Why, then, said I to
him, “ they will kill you.” He looked grave at that,
and said, “ No, they no kill me; they willing love
learn." He meant they would be willing to learn;
he added, they learned much of the bearded mans that
came in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them. He smiled at that, and said he could
not swim so far. I told him I would make a canoe
for him. He said he would go, if I would go with
him. “I go,” said I, “why they will eat me if I
come there."—“No, no," said he, “me make them
no eat you; me make them much love you ;" that is,
he would tell them how I had killed his enemies, and
saved his life, and so he would make them much love
me.
From this time, I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could join with these boarded men, who, I
doubt not, were Spaniards or Portuguese; and if I
aonnvson causos. 203
thence, being upon the continent, and a good compa-
ny together, better than I could from an island, forty
miles 03' the shore, and alone without help. So after
some days, I took Friday to work again, and told him,
I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation;
and accordingly carried him to my frigate, which lay
on the other side of the island, and having cleared it
of the water, I brought it out, showed it him, and we
both went into it.
I found he was very dexterous at managing it, and
would make it go almost as swift again as I could ; so-
I said to him, “Well, now, Friday, shall we go to
your nation 1"” He looked very dull at my saying so,
which it seems, was because he thought the boat was
too small to go so far. I told him then I had a big-
ger; so the next day I went to the place where the
boat lay, which I had made, but which I could not
get into the water. He said that was big enough;
but as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two
or three and twenty years there, the sun had split and
dried it that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told
me that such a boat would do very well, and would
carry “much enough vittle, drink. bread."
aonnvson causos. 203
him to the continent, that I told him we would go and.
make one as big as that, and he should go homein it.
He answered not one word, but looked very sad. I
asked him what was the matter with him. “Wh
you angry mad with Friday ? what me done F"
asked him what he meant; saying, I was not angry
with him at all. “ No angry! no angry!” repeating
the words several times, “ wh send Frida home
away to my nation P”--“ Why,’ said I, “ Fri ay, did
you not say you wished you were there ?"—" Yes,
yes,” says he, “ wish we both there; no wish Friday
there, no master there.” In a word, he would not
think of going there without me. “ I go there, Fri-
day l" said I, “ what should I do there 1"" He turned
Very quick upon me at this—“ You do great deal much
good, you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame man:
you tell them know God, pray God, and live new
ife."——“Alas, Friday, said , thou knowest not what
thou sayest I am but an ignorant man myself."—
“ Yes, yes, says he, “ ou teachee me good, you
teaches them good."-—“ 0, no, Friday" said I, “you
shall go without me; leave me here to live b myself
as I did before." He looked confused at t 's, and
running to one of the hatehets which he used to
wear, he took it and ave it to me. “ What must I do
with this P" said I to im. “ You take kill Friday,” says
he. “What must I kill you for P” said I again. He
returns ve quick, “What you send Friday away
for? Takerkill Friday; no send Friday away." As
he spoke, tears stood in his eyes, and I was so affected,
that I said I would never send him away, if he was
willing to stay with me.
I found that all the foundation of his desire to go
to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to
the people, and his hopes of my doing them good: a
thing, which as I had no notion of myself, so I had
not the least thought, or intention, of undertaking it.
But I had a strong inclination to attempt an escape,
founded on the supposition that there were seventeen
bearded men there; and therefore, without any de-
nonrnson causes. 205
tree proper to fell, and make a arge periagua, or ca-
noe, for the voyage. After searching some time, Fri-
day pitched upon a tree, for he knew much better
nonrnson causes. 205
I tell what wood to call the tree we cut down, except
that it was like the tree we call fustic, or between that
and the Nicaragua wood. for it had the same colour
and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow of this
tree out, to make it into a boat, but I showed him how
rather to out it out with tools, which after I showed
him how to use he did it very handily, and in about
nonrnson causes. 205
handsome, especially when with our axes, which I
showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat. After this it
cost us near a fortnight‘ s time to et her along, inch by
inch, npon great rollers, into t e water; but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with
ease.
It amazed me to see with what dexterity and swift-
ness my man Friday managed her, turned her, and
nonrnson causes. 205
ture over in her. “ Yes,” he said, “me venture over
in her very well, though great blow wind.” How-
ever, I had a farther design that he knew not of, and
nonrnson causes. 205
an anchor and cable. For the mast, I pitched upona
straight young cedar tree, which I found near the
place. and which there was plenty of in the island;
and I set Friday to cut it down, and gave him direc-
tions how to shape and order it: but as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I had pieces of old
sails, butas I had had them twenty-six years byme, and
not being careful to preserve them, they were nearly
all rotten. However, I found two pieces which were
retty good, and with a great deal of pains, and te-
"ous stitching, for want of needles, I at length made
'a three-cornered ugly thing, like a shoulder-of-mutton
sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short
sprit at the top, such as usually our ships’ long-boats
sail with, and such as I best knew how to manage, for
it 'was such a one as I used in the boat in which I
made my escape from Barbary.
206 aonrsson causes.
206 aonrsson causes.
making a small stay, and a sail, a fore-sail to it, to
assist, if we should turn to windward; and, which
206 aonrsson causes.
her, to steer with, and though I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet as I knew Hie usefulness and even ne-
cessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much
pains to do it, that at last brought it to pass.
Then I had Friday to teach the navigation of myboat,
for though he knew how to paddle the canoe, he knew
nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and
206 aonrsson causes.
as the course we sailed changed : I say, when he saw
this, he stood like one amazed. However, with a lit-
tle use, I made all these things tamiliar to him, and
he lkcame an exgert sailor, except that as to the com-
ass, I could ma e him understand very little of that;
hut there was not much occasion for the compass, in
these parts.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me ought to be left
out of the account, my habitation being quite of ano-
ther kind, than before. I he t the anniversary of my
landing here with the some t ankfulness to God for
206 aonrsson causes.
206 aonrsson causes.
ditional testimonies of the care of Providence over me,
and the t hopes I had of being speedily delivered;
for I ha an invincibleim ression that my deliverance
was at hand, and that I should not be another year
in thisaplace. However, I went on with all my work,
as us .
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
thus we waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I designed to make my adventure.
nosrnson cavsoa. 207
did was to lay by a certain uantity of provisions, as
stores for our voyage; anqu intended in a week or
two to open the dock and launch our boat. I was busy
one morning in this way, when I called to Friday, and
nosrnson cavsoa. 207
toise, a thing which we generally got once a week,
nosrnson cavsoa. 207
day had not been long gone, when he came running
nosrnson cavsoa. 207
felt not the ground; and before I had time to speak
to him, he cried out, “0 master! 0 master! 0 sor-
row! 0 bad l"—“ What’s the matter, Friday P” said
I. “O yonder there,” says he, “ one, two, three ca-
noe! one, two, three!” By this way of speaking, I
concluded there were six; but, on inquiry, I found
there were but three, “Well, Friday," said I, “do
not be frightened ;” so I heartened him up as well as
I could. But the poor fellow was terribly scared, for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to
look for him, and would cut him in pieces, and eat
him ; and he trembled so, that I scarce knew what to
do with him. I comforted him, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they would eat me
as well as him. “But,” said I, “Friday, we must
nosrnson cavsoa. 207
“Me shoot," says he, “but there come many great
number.”—“No matter for that,” said I, “our guns
will fright them that we do not kill.” So I askedhim
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bade him. He
said, “ Me die when you bid die, master." So I gave
him a good dram of rum; and when he had drank it,
I made him take the two fowling-pieces, and load
them with swan-shot, as big as small istol-bullets:
then I took four muskets, and loaded t em with two
208 ROBINSON causes.
tols I loaded with a brace of bullets each. hung my
great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave
riday his hatchet.
Thus prepared, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill to see what I could dis-
cover, and I found quickly by my glass that there
were twenty-one savages, three prisoners, and three
canoes; and that their business was the triumphant
banquet upon three human bodies.
They were landed, not where they had done when
Friday escaped, but nearer my creek, where the shore
was low, and where a thick wood came almost down
to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman
208 ROBINSON causes.
tion, that I said to Friday, that I was resolved to go
down and kill them all, and asked him if he would
stand by me. He had now gotten over his fright, and
his spirits being a little raised with the dram, he was
very cheerful, and told me as before, “ he would die
when I bid die.”
208 ROBINSON causes.
charged, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick
in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and
I took one ptstol and the other three myself; and in
this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle
of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag
with more owder and bullets; and I charged him to
keep close ehind me, and not to stir, or sheet, or do
any thing till I bade him: and not to speak a. word.
In this posture I fetched a compass to my right hand
of near a mile, to get over the creek, and into the
wood, so that I might come within a shot of them be-
fore I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.
I entered the wood with all possible wariness and
silence, (Friday following close at my heels,) and
marched till I came to the skirt of the wood, on the
side next to them; one corner of the wood la between
me and them. I called softlyto Friday, an showing
him a great tree, at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see
there tplainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came ack, and told me the might be plainly viewed
nonmson causes. :09
nonmson causes. :09
bound upon the sand, whom they would kill next, and
nonmson causes. :09
not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men
nonmson causes. :09
with horror at the very naming of the white bearded
man, and, going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass
a white man, lying upon the beach of the sea, with
nonmson causes. :09
he was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
nonmson causes. :09
where I was, w ich, by going a little way about, I
saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half a shot of them. So I withheld
my sion, and, going back about twenty paces, I
got ehind some bushes, which held all the way till I
came to the other tree, and then I came to a little ris-
ing ground, which gave me a full view of them, at
the distance of about eighty yards.
I had not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the
wretches sat upon the ground, huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the out Chris-
tian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by lim , to their
N
210 ROBINSON oauson.
ed to Friday: “Now, Friday," said I, “ do as I bid
thee." Friday said he would. “ Then Friday, said
I, “do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing."
So I set down one of the muskets and the fowling-
piece upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his;
and with the other musket I took my aim at the sav-
ages, bidding him do the like: then asking him if he
210 ROBINSON oauson.
210 ROBINSON oauson.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side he shot he killed two of them, and wounded
three more; and, on my side, I killed one, and wound-
ed two. They were in a dreadful consternation; and
all who were not hurt jumped up immediately, but
did not know which way to run, or look, for they
knew not from whence their destruction came. Fri-
day kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I bid him,
210 ROBINSON oauson.
shot was made, I threw down the piece and took up
the fowling-pieoe, and Friday did the like: he sees
me cock and present; he did the same again. “Are
you ready, Friday t” said I. “Yes,” said he. “ Let
210 ROBINSON oauson.
210 ROBINSON oauson.
did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with
swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found only two
dro ; but so many were wounded, that they ran about
yel ing and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody
and wounded, most of them; and three more fell
quickly after, but not quite dead.
“ Now, Friday,” said I, laying down the discharged
ieoe and taking up the musket, which was yet
oaden, “follow me," which he did with a deal of
courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As
soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud
as I could, and bade Friday do so too; and running
as fast as I could, I made directly towards the poor
victim, who was 1 'ng upon the beach or shore, be-
tween the place w ere they sat and the sea. The two
nosmson cavson. 211
nosmson cavson. 211
jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made
the same way. I turned to Frida , and bade him step
nosmson cavson. 211
diately, and, running about forty yards to be nearer
them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed
them all, for I saw them all fall on a. heap in the boat,
though I saw two of them up again uickly; how-
ever, he killed two of them, and wounded the third,
so that he lay in the bottom of the boat as if he had
been dead.
nosmson cavson. 211
nosmson cavson. 211
and asked him in the ortuguese tongue, what he
was. He answered, in Latin, “ Christianus ;" but ,
was so weak and faint, that he could scarce stand or
s oak. I gave him my bottle, making signs that he
s ould drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece
of bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said, “ Espagnole 1" and
being a little recovered, let me know, by all the signs
he could possibly make, how much he was in my debt
for his deliverance. I said in as good Spanish as I
nosmson cavson. 211
now : if you have any strength left, take the pistol and
sword, and lay about on.” He took them very thank-
fully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
nosmson cavson. 211
his murderers like a fury, and had out two of them in
pieces in an instant; for they were so surprised and
'ghtened, that they could make no resistance, nor
attempt to escape.
nosmson cavson. 211
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had

given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called
Friday, and bade him run to the tree from whence we
212 aonrnsox causos.
charged, which he quickly did; and then giving him
my musket, loaded all the rest again, and bade them
come to me when they wanted. While I was loading
212 aonrnsox causos.
the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at
him with a great wooden sword, the same weapon that
was tohave killed him, if I had not prevented it. The
Spaniard, who was very bold, though weak, had fought
this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him
down, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the S aniard, though undermost, wisely quitted
the sword, 'ew the pistol from his girdle, and shot
him dead on the spet.
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
212 aonrnsox causos.
with it he dispatched those three who were wounded
212 aonrnsox causos.
with; and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun,
gave him one of the fowling~pieces, with which he
Eursued two of the savages, and wounded them both;
ut as he was not able to run, they both got from him
into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed
one of them; but the other was too nimble for him;
and though he was wounded, yet had plunged into
the sea, and swam with all his might off to those left
in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, we know not whether he died or no, were
all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or
three shots at them, he did not hit an of them. Fri-
day would have had me take one of t eir canoes and
pursue them, and indeed I was very anxious about
their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their
ople, they should return, perhaps, with two or three
heundred of canoes, and devour us by mere multitude ;
so I consented to pursue them by sea; and running to
one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday fol-
low me; but when I was in the canoe, I was sur rised
nominees causosv 213
hand and foot, for the slaughter, and almost dead
with fear, not knowing what the matter was, for he
had not been able to look up over the side of the boat;
he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied
so long, that he had little life in him.
nominees causosv 213
and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or s eak, but groaned most piteously, believing
still, that e was only unbound to be killed. When
Friday came, I bade him tell him of his deliverance;
and pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor
wretch adram, which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat u in the boat; but
when Friday came to hear him spea , and looked in
his face, it would have moved an one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jum ed about, danced,
sung, then cried again, wrung his ands, beat his own
face and head, and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before
I could make him speak to me, or tell me what was
the matter; but when he came a little to himself, he
said that it was his father.
It is not easy to express how it moved me, to see
nominees causosv 213
poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his
eing delivered from death: nor can I describe half
nominees causosv 213
into the boat and out of it, a great many times. When
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open
his breast, and hold his father's head close to his
bosom halfanhour together, to nourish it; then he
took his arms and ancles, which were numbed and
214 nonmson cnvson.
with his hands; and I gave him some rum out of my
bottle to rub them with, which did them a deal of
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not,
for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con-
tinued blowing so hard all night, from the north-
west, which was against them, that their boat 00qu
not live, and they must have perished.
Friday was so busy about his father, that I could
214 nonmson cnvson.
but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him, and he came jumping and laughing, and leased
to the highest extreme. Then I asked him if 9 had
given his father any bread. He shook his head, and
said, “ None: ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave
him a cake of bread out of my little pouch, and also
a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but car-
ried it to his father. I had in my pocket also a few
bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handful for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these
raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and run
away as if he had been bewitched. He ran at such a
rate (for he was the swiftest fellow that ever I saw)
he was out of sight, as it were in an instant; and
though I called and hallooed after him, it was all one:
away he went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and
as he came nearer I found his ace was slacker, be-
cause he had something in his hand.
When he came to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more
cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but
the water he carried to his father; however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water
revived his father more than all the rum or spirits I
had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I asked him if there
was any water left; he said, “ Yes," and I bade him
give it to the poor Spaniard, who was as much in want
of it as his father, and I sent one of the cakes to the
Spaniard too, who was very weak, and reposing him-
self on a green place, under the shade of a tree, and
nonmson causon. 215
rude bandage. \Vhen I saw that upon Frida ’s com-
ing up to him with the water, he sat up an drank,
and took the bread and began to eat, I went and gave
him a handful of raisins. He looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude that could ap ear in
any countenance; but was so weak, though e had
nonmson causon. 215
upon his feet: he tried to o it two or three times, but
was not able, his ancles were so swelled, and so pain-
ful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday
to rub his ancles, and bathe them with rum, as he had
done his father's.
I observed the affectionate creature, every two
minutes, all the while I was here, turn his head to
see for his father ; and at last he missed him, at which
nonmson causon. 215
with that swiftness to him, that one could scarce per-
ceive his feet to touch the ground as he went; but
when he came, he found he had only laid himself down.
to ease his limbs. So Friday came back to me
presently; I then told him to help the Spaniard to
the boat; so he took him upon his back, and carried
him beside his father in the boat, and step ing out
again launched the boat off and addled it a ong the
shore faster than I could walk, t ongh the wind blew
pretty hard; so he brought them safe into our creek,

and leaving them in the boat, he ran to fetch the other
canoe. As he passed me, I asked him whither he
went. He told me, “ Go fetch more boat." So away
he went like the wind: and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land: so
he wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat; but neither of them were able
to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what to do.
At last we made a kind of hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them up both
together upon it between us. But when we got them
to the outside of our walls, we were at a worse loss
than before, for it was im ossible to get them over;
and I was resolved not to reak it down. So I set to
work again; and Friday and I in about two hours,
made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails,
and above that with boughs of trees, being in the
space without our outward fence, and between that
and the grove of young wood which I had planted:
and here we made them two beds of good rice straw,
with blankets to lie on, and another to cover them on
each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I was very rich in
21’: nosmsos causes.
quently made, how like a king I looked. First, the
whole country was my own property, so that I had
an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly, my peo-
ple were perfectly subjected ; I was the absolute lord
and lawgiver: the all owed their lives to me, and
were ready to lay own their lives, if necessary, for
me. It was remarkable, too, I had but three sub-
jects, and they were of three different religions: my
man Friday was a protestant; his father was a -
gan and a cannibal; and the Spaniard was a papist.
However, I allowed liberty of conscience to all my
subjects.
As soonas I had secured my two weak, rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter 231i 1; place of rest,
I began to think of making some rovision for them ;
nonnzsos cansoa. 217
ling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my artic-
nonnzsos cansoa. 217
guarter, and chopping it into small pieces. I set Fri-
ay to boiling and stewing, and made them a very
nonnzsos cansoa. 217
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
nonnzsos cansoa. 217
battle; and the next day I ordered him to go and
the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open
to t e sun, and would presently be offensive; and I
also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast ; all of which he punctually performed.
I then began to converse with my two new sub-
nonnzsos cansoa. 217
about. the escape of the savages in that canoe, and
whether we might expect a return of them with a
poWer too great for us to resist. His 0 inion was,
that the savages in the boat never could live out the
storm, but must be drowned or driven south to those
other shores, where they were sure to be devoured;
but as to what they would do, if they came on shore,
he said, he knew not, but it was his opinion that the
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their
nonnzsos cansoa. 217
they would tell their people they were killed by thun-
(luv and lightning, and not by the hand of man: and
that the two which appeared (viz. Friday and I) were
“we heavenly spirits and furies come down_to destroy
them, and not with weapons. And this old savage
was right ; for though they escaped the sea, they gave
each dreadful accounts in their own country (as I
heard atterwards,) that they never ventured to my is-
land again. But I was under continual apprehen-
sions for some time, and kept upon my uard, I and
all my army, for as we were new four 0 us, I would
havie ventured upon a hundred of them, in the open
218 nosmsou causos.
In a little time, no more canoes appearing, the fear
of their coming wore off, and I again thought of a voy-
age to the main, being also assured by Friday's fa-
ther, that I might depend on good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, after dis-
coursing with the Spaniard, and when I understood
that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and
Portuguese, who having been cast away, and escaped
to that side, lived there at peace with the savages, ut
were sore put to it for necessaries, and for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio
de la Plata to Havannah, being directed to leave their
218 nosmsou causos.
back what European goods they could meet with
218 nosmsou causos.
board, whom they took out of another wreck; that
218 nosmsou causos.
218 nosmsou causos.
nite dangers, and arrived, almost starved, on the can-
nibal coast, where they expected to be devoured every
moment.
He told me, they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither pow-
der nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all
218 nosmsou causos.
landing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there; and if they had formed no design of making
an escape. He said they had many consultations
about it, but having neither vessel nor tools to build
one, nor provisions of any kind, their counsel alwa s
ended in tears and despair. I asked him how
thought they would receive a roposal from me, which
might lead to an escape ; on whether, if they were
all here it might not be done. He told me they were
all under the greatest distress imaginable, and if I
gould undertake their relief they would live and die
y me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
the Spaniard over to them to treat. But when he had
gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaanierd
started an objection, which had so much prudence and
aosmsou causos. 219
his advice, ut 06' the deliverance of his comrades for
at least hal a year. The case was thus :—He had
been with us new about a month, during which time
I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with
the aid of Providence, for my support; and he saw
evidently what stock of corn and rice I had laid u ,
aosmsou causos. 219
ent for my family, now it was increased to the num-
aosmsou causos. 219
countrymen, who were fourteen, still alive, should
aosmsou causos. 219
victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a v0 -
age to any of the Christian colonies of America. 0
he thought it would be more advisable to let him and
the two others, cultivate more land, as much as I
could spare seed to sow ; and that we should wait
another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn
for his countrymen, when they should come ; for want
might make them disagree, or not think themselves
aosmsou causos. 219
another.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I was very well pleased with his proposals,
aosmsou causos. 219
all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were
furnished with permitted ; and in about a month’s
time, by the end of which it was seed time, we had
gotten as much land cultivated, that we sowed twen-
ty T'nishels of barley on. and sixteen jars of rice, which
was all the seed we had to spare.
2'0 nosrssox cncsos.
us out of fear of savages, if they had come, un ess
their numbers had been very great, we went freely all
over the island, wherever we found occasion; and as
we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts,
it was impossible, at least for me, to have the means
out of mine. To this purpose I marked out several
2'0 nosrssox cncsos.
day and his father to cut them down; and I caused
the Spaniard to over-see and direct their work. I
showed them with what indefatigable pains I had
hewed alarge tree into single lanks, and I caused
them to do the like, till they be made about a dozen
large planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-
2'0 nosrssox cncsos.
thick. What prodigious labour it took up, any one
ma imagine.
2'0 nosrssox cncsos.
I could; and to effect it, I made Fri ay and the Span-
iard go out one day, and me and Friday the next day,
for we took our turns; and, by this means, we got
about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest,
for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
2'0 nosrssox cncsos.
the grapes coming on, I caused such a vast quantity
to be hung u in the sun, that I believe, had we been
at Alicant, w ere raisins are cured, we should have
2'0 nosrssox cncsos.
was a great part of our food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order.
It was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in
the island, but it was enough to answer our end, for,
from our twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in
and threshed out above tWo hundred and twen
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice, whic
was store enough for food until next harvest. though
the fourteen Spaniards had been with me; or, if we
had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully
have victuallod our ship to carry us to any part of
America. When we had thus secured our corn, we
made more wicker-work, viz. great baskets in which
we kept it; the Spaniard was very dexterous at this
art.
p Having now a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to
the main, to see what he could do with those he had
left there. I gave him strict charge not to bring any
aosmson causes. 2‘21
himself and the old savage, that he would in no way
aosmson causes. 2‘21
in the island, who was so kind as to send for them,
in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by and defend him against all such attempts,
and wherever they went, they Would be entirely sub-
jected to his command; and that this should 6 put
in writing, and signed with their hands. Under these
instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage went
away in one of the canoes which they came in, when
they were brought as prisoners to be devoured by the
save es. 1 gave each a musket, and eight charges of
gow er and ball, charging them to be very careful of
0th, and not to use either of them but upon very ur-
gent occasions.
aosmson causes. 2‘21
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
seven years and some days. I gave them provisions
aosmson causes. 2‘21
countrymen for eight days; and wishing them a good
voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which
I should know them again, at a distance, before they,
came on shore. They went away with a fair gale,
on the day that the moon was at the full, by m ac-
count, in the 1.2.1 cf October, as near as I ooul tell.
:1
It was no less than eight days I waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen occurrence intervened,
of which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my but one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and
called aloud, “Master, master, they are come, they
are come l" I jumped up, and, regardless of danger,
went out, as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove; I went without my arms,
which it was not my custom to do; but I was sur-
prised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I saw a
oat, about a league and a half‘s distance, standing
in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, and
the wind blowing fair to bring them in. I observed,
that they did not come from that side which the shore
lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close,
for these were not the people we looked for, and that
we did not know whether they were friends or foes.
Then I fetched my pers ctive glass, to see what I
could make of them; an having taken the ladder out,
I climbed up to the top of the bill, as I used to do,
when I was apprehensive of any thing, and to take
my view plainer, without being discovered. I had
scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues
and a half ’s distance from me, S.S.E. but not above
a league and a half from the shore. It appeared
plainly to be an English ship, and the boat an Eng-
lish long boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though
the joy of seeing a shi , and one which I had reason
to believe was manne by my own countrymen, and
conse uently friends, was such as I cannot describe ;
yet I ad some secret doubts about me, I cannot tell
whence they came, bidding me to be upon my guard.
I began to consider what business an English ship
could have here; since it was not the way to or from
any part of the world where the English had any
ROBINSON onvson. 223
there, in distress; that if they were English really,
it was probable they were here upon no good design,
and that I had better continue as I was, than fall into
the hands of thieves and murderers. \
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him, when he ma
think there is no danger of its being real. That suc
hints are given us, I believe few, that have made any
observations of things, can deny; that they are cer—
tain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse
of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if their design seems
to be to warn us of danger, why should we not sup-
pose they are from some friendly agent (whether su-
preme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the ques-
tion.) and that they are given for our good P
ROBINSON onvson. 223
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, I had been undone
inevitably, and in a far worse condition than,before.
I had not kept myself long in that posture when I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked
for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of
landing; however as they did not come quite far
enough, they did not see the little inlet where I for-
merly landed my rafts, but ran their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which
was very happy for me; for otherwise they would
have landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would
soon have beaten me out of my castle, and, perhaps,
have plundered me of all I bad.
ROBINSON onvson. 223
they were Englishmen, at least most of them, one or
two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so.
There were in all eleven men, whereof three I found
were unarmed, and, (as I thought) bound; and when
ROBINSON onvson. 223
they took these three out of the boat as prisohers.
One of the three I perceived using the most passionate
224 aoanvsox onosos.
two lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared
224 aoanvsox onosos.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called
out to me, in English, as well as he could, “ O mas-
ter, you see English mans eat prisoners as well as
savage mans.”—“ W'hy,” said I, “ do you think they
are going to eat them then ?"—-“ Yes,” says Friday,
“ they will eat them.”—“ No, no," said I, “ Friday,
I am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you
ma be sure they will not eat them."
this while I had no thoughts of what the matter
really was, but ex ected every moment the three
prisoners would be illed; and once I saw one of the
villians lift up his arm, with a great cutlass or sword,
to strike one of the poor men, and I expected to see
him fall every moment. I wished heartily now for
my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with
him ; or that I had any way to have come undis-
covered within shot of them, that I might have res-
224 aoanvsox onosos.
saw.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men, by th' ' solent seamen, I saw that the fel-
lows mn scatterin; about the land, as if they wanted
to see the country, I observed also, that the three
other men had liberty to go where they pleased, but
that they sat down all three upon the ground very
pensive, and looked like men in despair.
It was just at high-water when these poop-b ultllle
on shore, and while they stood parleying \m I: he
prisoners they brought, and while they rambled about
to see what kind of place they were in, they L --i stayed
till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed con-
siderably away, leaving the be“: i ground. They ._...1
left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards,
having drank a little too much fell asleep. But one
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed
for the rest, who were straggling about, on which
they all came to the boat, but it was past all their
strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy,
and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand,
like a quicksand. In this state, like true seamen,
who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to
forethought, they gave it over, and away they strolled
about the count again; and I heard one of them
sa aloud to anot er (calling them elf from the boat,)
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
trymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill. I knew it
would be no less than ten hours before the boat could
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
and I might be more at liberty to see their motions,
and to hear their discourse, if they had any.
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
as before, though with more caution, knowing I had
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
I ordered Friday also to load himself with arms. I
took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three
nonrxson cnnsoa. 225
my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I
have mentioned, anaked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder. '
It was In design not to make any attempt until
dark; buta out two o'clock, being the heat of the
day, I found they were all gone straggling into the
woods, and I thought, all laid down to sleep. The
three poor distressed men, too anxious for their con-
dition to get any sleep, were sat down under the shel-
o
ter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from
me, and out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
learn something of their condition. Immediately I
marched with my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not mak-
226 aonnzson causes.
came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them, in
Spanish, “ What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
226 aonnzson causes.
226 aonnzson causes.
when I spoke to them in En lish:—“Gcntlemen,"
said I, “do not be surprise at me; perhaps you
may have a friend near you, when you did not expect
it.’ —“He must be sent direct from heaven then,”
226 aonnzson causes.
his hat at the same time, “for our condition is past
the help of man.”—-“ All help is from heaven, sir ;”
said I, “but can you put a stranger in the way
how to hel you, for you seem to be in some great
distress ? saw you when you landed: and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came
with you, I saw one lift up his sword to kill on.”
The poor man, with tears running down is face.
trembling, and astonished, said, “Am I talking to God
or man? Is it a real man, or an angel F“—-“Be in
no fear about that, sir,” said I, “if God had sent an
angel to relieve on, he would have come better
clothed, and arme differently, than you see me. Lay
aside your fears, I am a man, an Englishman, and
disposed to assist you, you see. I have one servant
only : we have arms and ammunition. Tell us freely,
can we serve you i" What is your case ?"
“Our case, sir,” said he, “is too long to tell you,
while our murderers are so near; but, in short, sir, I
was commander of that ship, my men have mutinied
against me, they have been hardly prevailed upon not
to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore in
this desolate place, with these two men with me, one
my mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to
erish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and
now not yet what to think of it.”
“ Where are those brutes, your enemies ?” said I,
“ do you know where they are gone ?"—“ There they
are, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees, “ my
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard
you s eak; if they have, the will murder us all."
ROBINSON causes. 227
“ They have only two pieces, and one which they left
in the boat.”——“ Well then," said I, “leave the rest
to me. I see they are asleep. It is an easy thing to
kill them all; but shall we rather take them prison-
ers ?” He told me there were two desperate villians
ROBINSON causes. 227
mercy to, but if they were secured, he believed
the rest would return to their duty. I asked him
which they were. He told me could not, at that
distance, describe them: but he would obey me in
any thing I would direct. “Well,” said I, “let us
retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake,
and we will resolve farther.” So they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them.
“ Look you, sir,” said I, “if I effect your deliverance,
are you willing to make two conditions with me ?"
He anticipated my proposals, by telling me, that both
he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly di-
rected and commanded by me in every thing; and if
the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with
me, in what part of the world soever I would send
him; and the two others said the same.
“ Well," said I, “ my conditions are but two:—
ROBINSON causes. 227
you will not pretend to any authority here; and if I
put arms in your hands, you will, on all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or
mine, 11 on this island; and, in the mean time, be
goveme by my orders. Secondly, that if the ship
is recovered, you will carry me and my man to Eng-
land passage free.” He gave me all the assurances
that the faith of man could devise, that he would
comply with these most reasonable demands, and, be-
sides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it,
as long as he lived.
“ Well then,” said I, “here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball. Tell me next what you
think is proper to be done.” He showed all the
gratitude that he was able; but offered to be wholly
guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard ven-
turing any thing, but the best method I could think
228 nosmsox causes.
228 nosmsox causes.
submit. we might save them, and so put it wholly
upon God’s Providence to direct the shot.
He said very modestly that he was loath to kill
them, if he could help it, but that those two were
incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of the
mutiny, and if the escaped we should be undone, for
they would go on card and bring the whole ship’s
company, and destroy us all. “ Well then,” said I,
“necessity legitimates my advice; for it is the only
way to save our lives,” But seeing him still cautious
of shedding blood, I told him they should go them~
selves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet. I asked him if either of them were the
men who, he had said. were the heads of the mutiny.
He said, “No.”—“Well, then," said I, “you may
let them escape; and Providence seemstohave awak-
ened them on purpose to save themselves. Now,”
said I, “ if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had
iven him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and
his two comrades with him, each man a piece in his
nonrasozv onusoa. 229
made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who
was awake, turned about, and, seeing them coming
cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for
nonrasozv onusoa. 229
tain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so
well aimed their shot at the men the knew, that one
of them was killed on the spot, and7 the other very
much wounded; but, not being dead, he started up
upon his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other;
but the captain told him it was too late to or for
hel : he should call upon God to forgive his villhny,
an , with that word, knocked him down with the
stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more,
There were three more in the company. and one of
them was also slightly wounded. By this time I was
come; and when they saw that it was in vain to re-
sist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them
he would spare their lives if they would give him any
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they
had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to
him in recovering the ship, and in carrying her back
to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him
all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives, which I was not against; only I obliged
him to keep them bound hand and foot, while they
were upon the island. While this was doing, I sent
Friday, with the captain’s mate, to the boat, with
orders to secure her, and brin away the ears and
sail, which they did ; and, by the by, three straggling
men, that were parted from the rest, came back again
nonrasozv onusoa. 229
w 0 was before their risoner, now their conqueror,
they submitted to be sound also.
The captain and I be an to inquire into one ano—
ther's circumstances. told him my whole history,
which he heard with amazement, and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and indeed, as my story
is a whole collection of wonders, it affected h'm dee ‘
230 nonnwsox causos.
and how I seemed to have been preserved there on
purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his time,
and he could not speak a word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartment, leading
them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the
house, where I refreshed them with such provisions as
I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had
made during my long inhabitin this place.
All I showed to them, all I said, was perfectly
230 nonnwsox causos.
which perfectly concealed my retreat with a grove of
trees, which having been planted near twenty years,
and the trees growing much faster than in England,
was become a little wood, so thick that it was impas-
sable in any part of it but at that one side where I
had reserved my little windin passage into it. This
I told him was my castle, an residence, but that I
had a seat in the country, as most princes have,
whither I could retreat upon any occasion, and I
would show him it another time; but at present our
business was to consider how to recover the ship. He
agreed with me as to that; but was at a loss what
measures to take, for there were six—and-twenty hands
on board, who had entered into a cursed conspiracy, by
which they had forfeited their lives to the law, would
be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry
it on, knowing that if they were reduced they should
be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to Eng-
land, or any of her colonies, and therefore there would
be no attacking them with so small a number as we were
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion; and it occur-
red to me, that, in a little while, the ship's crew won-
dering what was become of their comrades, and of the
heat, would come on shore in their other boat, to see
for them, that they might come armed, and be
too strong for us: this, he allowed, was rational.
ROBINSON causes 23].
which lay upon the beach, that they might not carry
her otf; and taking every thing out of her, leave her
ROBINSON causes 23].
we went on board, took the arms which were lei't
on board out of her, and a bottle of brandy, another
of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and a
great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvass; the sugar
ROBINSON causes 23].
to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I
had been without many years.
Then we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that
if they had come strong enough to master us, yet thev
could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much
in m thoughts that we could be capable to recover
the 5 ip; but my view was, that if they went away
Without a boat, I did not much question to make her
ROBINSON causes 23].
call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way.
\Vhile we were thus preparing our designs, and
ROBINSON causes 23].
ROBINSON causes 23].
high-water mark; and, had broken a hole in her bot-
tom, and were sat down musing what we should do,
ROBINSON causes 23].
with her ancient, as a signal for the boat to come on
ROBINSON causes 23].
ROBINSON causes 23].
proved fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir,
we saw them (by the help of my glasses) hoist another
boat off, and row towards the shore; and we found,
as they approached, that there were ten men in her,
232 ROBINSON causes.
As the ship lay two leagues from the shore, we had
a full View of them as they came. The captain knew
the persons and characters of all the men in the boat,
of Whom he said that there were three very honest
fellows, who were led into this conspiracy by the rest,
being overpowered and frightened; but, as for the
232 ROBINSON causes.
all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the
_ship’s crew, and were made desperate in their new
enterprise.
232 ROBINSON causes.
the ship, considered of separating our prisoners, and
had secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom
the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with
Friday, and one of the three delivered men, to my
cave, where they were remote enough, and out of dan-
232 ROBINSON causes.
way out of the woods. They left them bound, but
gave them provisions, and promised, if they contin-
ued there quietly, to free them in a day or two: but
if they attempted their escape. they should be put to
death without mercy. They promised to bear their
232 ROBINSON causes.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioued, because the captain did not like
to trust them, but the other two were taken into my
service, upon their captain’s recommendation, on their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us. As soon
as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was
glad to see; for I was afraid they would rather have
left the boat at anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should
not be able to seize the boat.
Beiug on shore, they ran to the other boat ; and
nonrxson causes. 233
and a great hole in the bottom. After this, they set
up a great shout; but it was all to no purpose; then
nonrxson causes. 233
their small arms, which we heard, and the co oes
made the “code ring, but it was all one ; those in the
cave we were sure could not hear, and those in our
keeping, though they heard it, yet durst give no an-
swer to them.
They were so surprised at this, as they told us af-
terwards, that they resolved to go on board again to
their ship, and tell them that the men were murdered,
and the long boat staved; accordingly, they launched
their boat, and got on board.
The captain W‘s terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades
up for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which
he was in hopes we should have recovered, but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not long put ed" with the boat, but we
saw them coming on shore again; they left three men
in the boat, and the rest went up into the country
to look for their fellows. This was a great disap-
pointment to us, for now we were at a loss what to
do; for our seizing those seven men on shore would
be no advantage if we let the boat escape, because they
would then row away to the ship, and the rest would
be sure to wei h, and set sail, and so our hope of re-
covering the s ip Would be lost. However, we had
no remedy but to wait and see the issue of things.
The seven men came on shore, and the three who re-
mained in the boat put her off toa great distance from
the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them,
so that it was impossible for us to come at them in
the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the little hill, undcr
which my habitation lay, and we could see them
plainly, though they could not perceive us. And
when they were come to the brow of the hill, where
they could see a great way into the valleys and.
woods towards the north-east part, and where the is—
lands lay lowest, they shouted till they were weary,
and then they sat down to consider of it. Had they
gone to sleep there, as the other party did, they had
done for us; but they were too full of apprehensions
of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could
not tell what the danger was.
The captain made a very just proposal to me; viz.
234 ROBINSON CRUBOE.
deavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should
all sally upon them just at the juncture when their
pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly
'eld, and we should have them without bloodshed.
liked the proposal, provided it was done while we
were near enough to come up to them before they
could lead their pieces again. ,
But this event did not happen, and we lay still
along time, very irresolute what course to take: at
length I told him there would be nothing to be done
in my opinion, till night: and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might use some strata-
gem with them in the boat to get them onshore.
We waited a great while, and were very uneasy;
when, we saw them all march towards the sea, It
seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on board
the shi , give their companions over for lost, and so
go on t eir intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go toward' the shore, I
imagined that they had given over their search, and
were for going back again; and the captain was ready
to die when I told him my thoughts, but I thought
of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which
answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and
the captain's mate, to go over to the little creek west-
ward, towards the place where Friday was rescued,
about half a mile distance. I bade them halloo as loud
as they could, and as soon as they heard the seamen
answer them, to return it again, and then keeping
out of sight, take a round, and wheel about to me by
such ways as I directed. _
They were just going into the boat, when Friday
and the mate hallooed, and they heard them, and an-
swering, ran along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were stopped by the
creek, the water being up, they could not get over,
and called for the boat to set them over, as I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that
they took one of the three men out of her, and left
only two in the boat, having fastened her to a stump‘
of a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and leaving Friday
and the mate to their business, I took the rest with
me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, we sur-
Erised the two men, one of them lying on the shore
etween sleeping and waking, and going to start up,
the captain who was foremost, ran in upon him and
knocked him down, and then called to him in the boat
to 'yield or he was a dead man.
here needed few arguments to persuade a sin-
ROBINSON cnnsos. 235
and his comrade knocked down: besides, he was one
of the three men who were not hearty in the mutiny,
and therefore he was easily persuaded to yield, and
afterwards to join very sincerely with us.
Friday and the captain’s mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by
hallooing and answering, from one wood to another,
till they not onl heartily tired them, but left them
where the 00111 not reach back before it was dark;
and indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also
by the time they came back to us.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before the came back to their boat; and we could
hear the oremost of them, long before they came
quite up, calling to those behind to come along, and
could hear them answer, and complain how lame and
tired they were, and not able to come any faster,
which was very welcome news to us. As they came
to the boat it is impossible to express their confusion
when they found it fast aground in the creek, and
their two men gone; we could hear them saying they
were gotten into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhabitants in it, and they should be mur-
dered, or there were devils in it, and they should be
carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names, but got no answer. Aftcr some time,
we could see them by the little light there was, run
about like men in despair; sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then
come on shore again, and walk about everal times.
M men would have fallen upon them in the dark,
but {wished to spare them. and kill asfew as I could;
being unwilling to hazard the killing an of our men,
knowing the others were well armed. l, resolved to
wait and make sure of them, and drew my ambuscade
nearer, and ordered Friday and the captain to creep
upon their hands and knees, and get as near them as
236 aonruson causes.
hey had not been ong in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader, and had
now shown himself the most dispirited of all the rest,
walked towards them with two more of the crew.
The captain was so eager, at having the rinci l
rogue so much in his power, that he could1 har ly
have patience to let him come so near as to be sure
of him, for he only heard his tongue before; but
when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, start-
236 aonruson causes.

was killed on the spot, the next man was shot throu h
the body, and fell just by him, though he did not ie
till an hour or two after, and the third ran for it.
aosrxsou onuson. 237
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz.
myself, genoralissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant general;
the captain, and his two men, and the three prisoners
of war, whom we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them in the dark~ so that they could
not see our number; and I made the man they had
left in the boat, now one of us, to call them by name,
to bring them to parley, which fell out just as we de-
sired. So he calls out to one of them, " Tom Smith!
Tom Smith l” Tom Smith answered immediately,
“ \Vho's that, Robinson?” for he know his voice.
The other answered, “ Aye, aye; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you are
all dead men this moment l”
“ \Vho must we yield to ?—Where are they ?” says
Tom Smith again. “ Here they are," says he. “ Here
aosrxsou onuson. 237
hunting you this two hours. The boatswain is killed,
Will F e is wounded, and I am a prisoner; if you do
not viel . ou are all lost.”
“'Will t ey give us quarter then," sa s Tom Smith,
“and we will yield.”—-“ I’ll go and asli, if you pro-
mise to ield,’ says Robinson. So he asked the cap-
tain, an the captain himself then called out, “ You,
Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your
arms immediatel , and submit, you shall all have your
lives, all but VVil Atkins.”
Upon this, \Vill Atkins cried out, “ For God’s
sake, captaim give me quarter! What have I done ?
They have all been as bad as I l" which was not true,
aosrxsou onuson. 237
aosrxsou onuson. 237
However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion. and trust to the governor's
mercy, by which he meant me, for they called me
governor.
Then they all laid down their arms. and begged
their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and
238 ROBINSON ciwson.
with those three, were all but eight, came up and
seized them all, and their boat, only that I kept my-
self and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to seize
the ship; and as for the captain, he expostulated
with them upon the villany of ‘ their practices with
him, and how certainly it must bring them to distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitentY and begged hard
for their lives. As for that he said the governor was
an Englishman; and that he might hang them all
there if he pleased; but, as he had given them quar-
ter, he sumed he would send them all to England,
except At , whom he was commanded by the gov-
ernor to advise to prepare for death. for he would be
238 ROBINSON ciwson.
of his own, it had the desired effect. Atkins fell upon
his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the gov-
ernor for his life; and the rest begged him, for God’s
sake, not to send them to England.
It now appeared that our deliverance was come,
and that it would be easy to bring these fellows to be
hearty in getting possession of the ship. So I retired
in the dark from them, that they might not see what
kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me. When I called, as at a good distance, one of the
men was ordered to speak again, and say to the cap-
tain, “Captain, the commander calls for you ;" and
the captain replied, “ Tell his excellency I am a-com-
ing.” So they all believed the commander was just
238 ROBINSON ciwson.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which pleased him, and
resolved to put it in execution the next morning.
But to execute it with more art, and to be sure of
success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and
that he should take Atkins and two of the worst, and
send them bound to the cave where the others lay.
50 Friday, and the two men who came on shore with
the captain, conveyed them to the cave as to a prison.
The other I ordered to my bower, where they were
pinioned, and left secure enough.
To these, in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them ; to try them
whether he thought they might be trusted or no, to
go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them
of the injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to, and that though the governor had given
them quarter for their lives, as to the present action,
yet that if they were sent to England, they would all
e hanged in chains; but that if they would join in
so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would
have the governor’s engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
was accepted by men in their condition; they fell
down on their knees to the captain, and promised,
with deep imprecations, that they would be faithful
to him to the last drop, that they owed their lives to
him, and would go w1th him all over the world; that
they would own him for a father to them as long as
they lived. “ Well,” says the captain, “ I must go
tell the governor what you say, and see if I can bring
him to consent to it.” So he brought me an account
of the temper he found them in, and that he believed
they would be faithful. That we might be very se-
ROBINSON causes. 239
them, and tell them that they should see that they did
ROBINSON causes. 239
his assistants, that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners tothe cas-
240 noninson canson.
240 noninson canson.
hostages should be hanged in chains 11 on the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that they
had no way left- but to accept it; and it was new the
240 noninson canson.
do their duty. Our strength was now thus ordered
for the expedition :—First, the captain, his mate, and
passenger. Second, then the two prisoners of the
240 noninson canson.
captain, I had given their liberty, and trusted them
with arms. Third, the other two, whom I had kept
in my bower till now pinioned, were now released.
240 noninson canson.
240 noninson canson.
240 noninson canson.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with those hands on board the ship; for as for me
and my man Friday, I did not think it proper for us
to stir, having seven men left behind; and it was em-
ployment enough for us to keep them asunder, and
240 noninson canson.
I resolved to keep them fast; but Friday went twice
a-day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and
I made the other two carry provisions to a certain dis-
tance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was his pleasure they should not stir any where, but
by my direction; that if they did, they should be
fetched to the castle, and laid in irons; so that we
never suffered them to see me as governor; I appeared
as another person, and spoke of the governor, the
garrison, the castle, &c. upon all occasions.
240 noninson canson.
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passenger captain of one
noarxson causes. 241
went in the other. And they contrived their business
well; for they came up to the ship about midnight.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robinson hail them, and tell them he had brought off
the men and the boat, but that it was a long time be-
fore they had found them ; holding them in chat, till
they came to the ship’s side; when the captain and
noarxson causes. 241
the second mate and the carpenter with the butt-end
of their muskets, being faithfully seconded by their
men. They secured all the rest that were upon the
main and quarter-deck, and fastened the hatches to
keep them down who were below. The other boat
and men entering at the fore-chains, secured the fore-
castle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down
into the cook-room, making three men there prison-
ers. \Vhen this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break
into t e round-house, where the new rebel-captain
lay, who having taken alarm, was get up, and with
noarxson causes. 241
hands; and when the mate, with a crow, split open
noarxson causes. 241
among them, and wounded the mate with a musket-
ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two other
men, but killed nobody.
Tho mate calling for help, rushed into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and, with his istol, shot
the new captain through the head, the bul et entering
at his mouth. and came out behind his car, so that
he never spoke a word; the rest yielded, and the ship
was taken, without any more lives lost. As soon as
the ship was secured, the captain ordered seven guns
noarxson causes. 241
me, to give notice of his success, which I was glad to
hear, having sat watching on the shore for it till two
o’clock in the morning.
P
Having heard the signal, I lay down, and being
very fatigued, I fell asleep, when shortlyI was awoke
by the noise of a gun; and starting up, I heard a
man call me by the name of “ Governor," and pre-
sently I knew the captain’s voice, when climbing to
the' to of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the
ship, e embraced me. “My dear friend and deliv-
erer,” said he, “ there’s your ship ; for she is all
yours, and so are we, and all that belongs to her.” I
cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode, about
half a mile off the shore, for they weighed anchor as
soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
being fair, had brought her to anchor just against the
little creek, and the tide being up, they had brought
242 ROBINSON onuson.
rafts, and so landed just at my door.
I was ready to sink down with surprise, for I saw
my deliverance visibly put into my hands, all things
easy, and a large ship ready to carry me whither I
pleased to go. He perceived my situation, and pulled
a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cor-
dial, which he had brought for me. I sat down upon
the ground, and it was a good while before I could
speak to him.
After some time, I came to myself, and then I em-
braced him as m deliverer, and we rejoiced together.
I told him, I loohed upon him as sent from heaven to
deliver me, and that the whole transaction was a
chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies of a secret hand of Providence governing
242 ROBINSON onuson.
Power could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and send help to the miserable whenever he
pleased: and I forgot not to return thanks to God for
all his mercies.
\Vhen we had talked a while, the captain said he
had brought me some refreshment, such as the ship
afforded, and such as the wretches, so long his mas-
ters, had not plundered him of. Upon this he called
aloud to his men, and told them to bring the things
ashore for the governor; indeed, it was a splendid
present. First, he had brought me a case of bottles
of cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine,
two pounds of excellent tobacco, twelve good pieces of
the ship’s beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of
peas, and a hundred weight of tobacco. He brought
nosnrsou causoa. 243
ons, and two bottles of lime juice, and abundance of
other things. But, what was a thousand times more
useful to me, he brought me six clean new shirts,
six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves. one pair
of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, and a very
good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn
little; but the clothes felt very awkward and uneasy
nosnrsou causoa. 243
After these things were brought into my apart-
ment, we consulted what was to be done with the
prisoners we had, and whether we might venture to
take them away with us, especiall two of them, whom
we knew to be refractory to the st degree, and the
captain said he knew that they were such rogues. that
there was no obliging them; and if he did carry them
away, it must be in irons, as malefactois, to be deliv-
nosnrsou causoa. 243
should come at. Upon this I told him, I durst un-
dertake to bring the two men to request that he should
leave them upon the island, of which the captain said
he should be very glad. I accordingly sent for them,
and seriously diseoursed with them upon their cir-
cumstances. One of them answered in the name of
the rest, that when they were taken, the ca tain
promised them their lives, and they humbly imp ored
my mercy. I told them I knew not what mercy to
show, for, as for myself, I had resolved to quit theis-
land withall my men, and had taken passage with
the captain to go to England; and as for the captain,
he would not carry them to England, but as risoners
in irons, to be tried for mutiny and taking t e ship;
the consequence of which, would be the gallows; so
that I could not tell which was best for them, unless
they had a mind to stay in the island; if they desired
that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it.
had some inclination to ive them their lives, if they
could shift on shore. T ey seemed very thankful for
it; and said they would rather stay there, than be car-
ried to England to be hanged.
I then told them, I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them into the we of
making it easy to them. Accordingl I gave t em
the whole history of the place, and o my coming to
244 nosrnsox canson.
my bread, aiillanted my corn, cured m grapes, and
in a Word, that was necessary to ma e them easy.
I told them the story of the Spaniards that were to
be expected, for whom I left a letter, and made them
promise to treat them in common with themselves.
244 nosrnsox canson.
three swords. I had about a barrel and a half of pow-
der, which I left them. I described how I managed ‘
the goats, and how to milk and fatten them, to make
both butter and cheese. I told them I would prevail
with the ca tain to leave them two barrels of gun-
owder, an some garden seeds, which I would have
een very glad of ; also I gave them the bag of pease
I which the captain brought me, and bade them sow
and increase them.
So I left them the next day, and went on board the
244 nosrnsox canson.
swimming to the ship's side, and making a most la-
mentable complaint of the other three, begged to be
taken into the ship, for they should be murdered.
The captain pretended to have no power without
244 nosrnsox canson.
promises of amendment, they were taken on board,
and were shortly after soundly whip , after which
they proved very honest and quiet fe lows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide bein up, with the things promised to the
men, with w ich the captain, at my intercession, sent
their chests and clothes, which the took, and were
very thankful for. I also encourage them, by telling
them that if it lay in my way to send any vessel to
take them in, I would not forget them.
When I quitted this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my um-
brella, and one of m parrots ; also I forgot not to
take the money I ha had laid by me so long useless.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December,
by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had
been upon it twenty-eight years, two months, and
nineteen days; being delivered from the second cap-
tivity the same day of the month that I made my es-
ca e from among the Moors at Sallee.
In this vessel, afteralong voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land, the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been
ROBINSON causes. 245
W en I came to England, I was as perfect a stran—
er as if I had never been known there. My bene-
etor and faithful steward, whom I left in trust with
my money, was alive, but had had great misfortunes
in the world, was become a widow the second time,
and was in very low circumstances. I made her easy
as to what she owed me, assuring her I would give
her no trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude to
her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her
as much as my little stock would afford, which at that
time would indeed allow me to do but little for her;
but I assured her I would never forget her former
kindness to me; nor did I forget her, when I had suf—
ROBINSON causes. 245
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother, and all the family
extinct, except two sisters, and two of the Children of
one of my brothers; and as I had long ago been given
over for dead, there had been no rovision made for
me, so that in a word, I found not ing to relieve, or
assist me, and the little money I had would not do
much for me, as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship, whom I had so happily delivered, having given
a ve handsome account to the owners of the manner
how had saved the lives of the men and the ship,
they invited me to meet them, and some other mer-
chants concerned, and all altogether made me a very
handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present
of almost two hundred pounds sterling.
246 nonmson cnoson
and how little way this would go towards settling me
in the world I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I
could get any information of the state of my planta-
tion in the Brazils, and what was become of my part-
ner, who, I supgosed, had for some ears now given
me over for dea . I took shipping or Lisbon, where
I arrived in April following: my man Friday accom-
anying me in all these ramblings, and roving a most
246 nonmson cnoson
Lisbon, I found by inquiry, and to my particular sat-
isfaction, my old friend, the captain of the ship, who
246 nonmson cnoson
was now grown old, and had left otf the sea, having
put his son into the ship, and who still used the Bra-
zil trade. The old man did not know me, and I scarce-
ly knew him ; but he soon recollected me, when I told
him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired after in plantation and art-
ner. The old man said he ha not been in the ra-
zils for nine years ; but he could assure me, then when
he came away my partner was living, but that the
trustees, whom I had joined with him to take cog-
nizance of in part, were both dead; but he believed
that I should, have a very good account of the im-
provement of the plantation, for that, in the general
elief of my being cast away and drowned, my true-
tees had given in the account of the produce of my
ROBINSON cnvsor. 247
ad appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it,
one-third to the king, and two-thirds to the monas-
ROBINSON cnvsor. 247
of the poor, and the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic faith; but that if I appeared to claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the an-
nual production, being distributed to charitable uses,
he thought could not be restored.
I was a little concerned at this account, and inquired
how it came to pass that the trustees should thus dis-
pose of my effects, when they knew that I had made
my will, and made him, the Portuguese captain, my
universal heir, &c. He told me that was true, but as
there was no proof of my being dead, he could not
act as executor, until some certain account should
come of my death; and besides, he was not willing
to meddle with a thing so remote: that it was true,
he had registered my will, and put in his claim, and
could he have given any account of my being dead or
alive, he would have acted by procuratiou, and taken
ossession of my ingenio (sugar-house) and given
is son, now in the Bmzils, orders to do it.
The old man then asked me if he should put me in
a method to make my claim to my plantation. I told
him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I
might do so if I pleased; but that if I did not, there
were ways enough to secure my right, and immediately
ROBINSON cnvsor. 247
were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go to
the Brazils, he made me enter my name in a public
ROBINSON cnvsor. 247
I was alive, and that I was the same person who took
248 nosnxsou causos.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
248 nosnxsou causos.
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place, and then proposed my staying with him
till an account came of the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the
proceedings u on this rocuration ; for in less than
seven months receive a large packet from the survi-
vors of my trustees, the merchants for whose account
I went to sea; and as the Brazils ships came all in
248 nosnxsou causos.
my goods, and the effects were safe in the Tagus
before the letters came to my hands. By these, it
appeared I was new master, all on a sudden, of above
248 nosnxsou causos.
estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above
a thousand pounds a'year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England ; and, in a word, I was in a condition which
I scarce knew how to understand.
248 nosnxsou causos.
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been chari-
table to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning,
and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that
was sent me. I told him that, next to the providence
of Heaven, it was owing to him ; and that it now lay
on me to reward him. So I sent for a notary, and
caused him to draw a procuration, empowering him
248 nosnxsou causos.
tion, and appointing my partner to account to him,
248 nosnxsou causos.
my name. And a clause in the end, being a grant of
one hundred moidores a year to him, during his life,
248 nosnxsou causos.
after him, for his life.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course,
and what to do with the estate that Providence had
put into my hands : and, indeed, I had more care upon
my head now, than I had in in silent state of life on
the island, where I wanted notliing but what I had,
and had nothing but what I wanted; but I had nowa
eat charge upon me, how to secure my money. I
nosrusou cavsos. 249
my old patron the captain, indeed, was honest, and
that was the only refuge I bad. My interest in the
Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I could
nosrusou cavsos. 249
At first, I thought of my old friend the widow, who
was honest, and would be just to me ; but then she
was in years, and but poor, and, for ought I knew,
might be in debt ; so that I had no way but to go back
to ngland myself, and take my effects with me.
I was some months, however, before I resolved upon
this; and therefore as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his satisfaction, so I began to think of
nosrusou cavsos. 249
benefactor, and she, whilst it was in her power, my
faithful steward and instructor. So I got amerchant
in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, to
nosrusou cavsos. 249
from me, and to talk with her and comfort her in her
poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a
further supply. Also I sent my two sisters in the
country, a hundred pounds each, they being not in
very good circumstances, one having been married,
and left a widow, and the other having a husband,
not so kind 'to her as he should be. But among all
my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet itch
uporli one to whom I durst commit the gross o my
stoc .
I had once a mind to go to the Brazils, and settle
there, for I was as it were naturalized to the place,
but that I did not know with whom to leave my effects,
so I resolved at last to go to England with them,
where, I concluded I should make some acquaintance,
250 ROBINSON CRL'SOE.
and accordingly I prepared to go. Having settled my
affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my elfects into
250 ROBINSON CRL'SOE.
way to go to England. I had been accustomed enough
to the sea, yet I had a strange aversion to go to
England by sea at that time ; and though I could
250 ROBINSON CRL'SOE.
me so much, that though I had once shipped my
baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, two
or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one reason. Two ships, each of which
I had engaged to go in, but again withdrew my agree-
ment, miscarried, one was taken by the Algerines,
and the other was castaway on the start, near Torbay,
and all the people drowned, except three.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, pressed
me earnestly not to go by sea; but either to go by
land to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay
to Rochelle, from whence it was an easy and safe
journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover,
or go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through
France. I was so pre ossessed against going by sea
except from Calais to gover, that I resolved to travel
all the way by land, which, as I was not in haste, and ,
did not value the charge, was the pleasanter way;
and to make it more so, my old captain brought an
English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me; after which we
picked up two more English Merchants, and two young
ortuguese gentlemen, so that we were in all six of
250 ROBINSON CRL'SOE.
two Portuguese, content with one servant between
two, to save the charge ; and as for me, I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides
my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be
capable of supplying the place of a servant upon the
road.
In this manner we set out from Lisbon: and our
compan being all very well mounted and armed, we
made a ittle troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was
the original of the whole journey.
en we came to Madrid, we, being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time to
see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth ob-
serving; but it being the later part of the summer,
we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the
middle of October. But when we came to the edge
of Navarre, we were alarmedat several towns on the
way, with an account that so much snow was fallen
on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna,
after having attempted to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna, we found it so, and
to me, that had been always used to a. hot climate,
where we could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold
nonrnsox causes. 25]
prising, to come but ten days before out of Old Castile,
where the weather was very hot, and immediately to
feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains, so cold,
nonrnsox causes. 25]
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
mountains covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
After we came to Pampeluna, it continued snowing
with so much violence, and so long, that the people
said winter was come before its time, and the roads
were now quite impassible; and the snow not being
hard frozen, as in the northern countries, there was
no going without danger of being buried alive every
step. We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampe-
luna, when I proposed that we should all go to Fonta-
mbia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which
was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who, having been stopped on
the French side of the passes as we were on the Span-
ish, had found out a guide, who traversing the country
near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over
the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
incommoded with the snow : and where they met with
snow in any quantity; they said it was frozen hard
enough to hear them and their horses. '
We sent for this guide, who told us he would carry
us the same way, with no hazard from the snow, pro-
vided we were well armad to protect us from wild
beasts; for he said, upon these great snows it was
frequent for wolves to appear at the foot of the moun-
tains, being ravenous for food, the ground being covered
with snow. We told him we were well prepared for
such creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from two-legged wolves, which we were in most danger
' from, especially on the French side of the mountains.
252 ROBINSON onusoa.
the way that we were to go. So we agreed to follow
him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who had attem -
ted to go, and were obliged to return. According y
we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; but I was surprised, when. instead
of going forward, he came directly back with us, on
the same road that we came from Madrid, above twenty
miles; when having past two rivers, and come into
the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm
climate again, where the country was pleasant, and
no snow was to be seen; but on a sudden, turning to
the left, he a preached the mountains another way;
and though a hills and precipices looked dreadful
yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and led
us by such winding ways, we were insensiny passed
253
e
the height of the mountains without being much en-
cumbered with the snow; and, all on a sudden, he
showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Langue-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
they were at a great distance, and we had some rough
way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it snowed one whole da , and at night so fast that we
could not travel; but e bade us be easy, we should
soon be past it all. We found that we began to de-
scend every da ,’ and to come more north than before;
and so, depending on our guide, we went on.
About two hours before night, our guide being
something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed
three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of
a hollow way, adjoining a thick wood. Two of the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
mile before us, he had been devoured before we could
have helped him. One of them fastened upon his
horse, and the other attacked the man with that
violence that he had not time, and presence of mind
to draw his pistol, but hallooed out to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next to me, I badehim ride up,
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday
came in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud as the
other, “ 0 master! 0 master ! " but, like a bold fellow,
rode directly up to the man, and with a pistol, 'shot
the wolf that attacked him in the head.
It was well for the man that it was my man Friday;
for be, having been used to that kind of creature in
his country, had no fear, but went up close to him,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
at a farther distance, and have, perhaps, missed the
wolf, or have shot the man.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
than I; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when
with the noise of Fridag’s istol, we heard on both
sides the most dismal ow ing of wolves, and the
254
ROBINSON CRUSOE-
noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains, and it
was to us as if there had been a prodigious multitude
of them ; and perhaps, indeed, there were not such a
few, as that we had no cause of apprehension.
As Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had
254
happily fastened upon his head, where the bosses of
the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that he had not done
him much hurt. The man was most hurt; for the
wolf had hit him twice, once on the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee ; and he was just tumbling
down by the restiveness of his horse, when Friday
shot the wolf.
It is easy to an pose, that at the noise of Friday’s
pistol we all men ed our pace, and rode up as fast as
254
leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we
saw plainly what had been the case, and how Friday
had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not
then know what creature it was he had killed.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him he was helping him off from his
horse, for t e man was both hurt and frightened, and
254
we spied the bear come out of the wood, and a vast
monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I
saw. We were all alittle surprised when we saw him;
but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and
courage in the fellow’s countenance. “O! O! O !"
says Friday, three times, pointing tohim; “ 0, master!
you give to leave, me shakee to hand with him, me
makes you good laugh.”
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. “ You
fool, you," said I, “he will eat you up l”—“ Eatee me
up! eatee me up I” says Friday, twice over again.
“ Me eatee him up: me show you good laugh." So
down he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and.
.
put on a pair of pumps, which he had in his pocket,
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun
away he went, swift like the wind.
The hear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday, coming pretty near,
calls to him, as if the bear could understand him,
“Hark e, Hark ye," says Friday, “me speakee wit
you.” e followed at a distance, for now being
come down to the Gaseoigne side of the mountains,
we entered a vast great forest, where the country
was plain, and pretty open, though many trees in it.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a. great
stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the
head, but did him no more harm than if he had
thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday’s
end, for the rogue was so void of fear that he did it
purely to make the bear follow him, and “show us
some laugh,” as he called it,
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turned about, and came after him, taking long strides,
nosmson causes. 255
day, and took his course, as if he ran towards us for
nosmson causes. 255
liver my man, though I was angry at him for bring-
ing the hear back upon us, when he was going about
his own business another way; and that he had turn-
ed the bear upon us, and then run away; and I called
out, “ You dog, is this your making laugh? Come
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the
creature.” He cried out, “ No shoot, no shoot!
' Stand still: you get much laugh.” And as the nim-
ble creature ran two feet for the beast’s one, he turned
suddenly on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree,
nosmson causes. 255
ling his pace, he gets nimny up the tree, laying his
nosmson causes. 255
tom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at
255 nonrnsox cnusoa.
but let it lie, and up he scrambled into the tree, climb-
ing like a cat, though so heavy. I was amazed at the
folly, as I thought it, of in man, and could not see
any thing to laugh at yet, till, seeing the bear get up
the tree, we all rode nearer to him.
When we came to the tree, Friday had got out to
the small end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear
got about half way to him; as soon as the bear got
to that part where the limb was weaker, “ Ha,” says
he, to us, “now you see me teachee the bear to
dance ;" so he fell a jumping, and shaking the bough,
at which the bear began to totter. and stood to look
behind him, to see how to get back; then we did
laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him
by a great deal: when he saw him stand still, he
called out to him again, as if the bear could speak
English, “What, you no come farther? Pray you
come farther.” So he left jumping and shaking the
bough, and the bear, just as if he had understood
what he said, did come a little farther; then he fell a
jum in again, and the bear stopped again.
e t ought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and I called to Friday to stand still and
we would shoot the bear; but he cried out, “ 0 pray!
O pray! no shoot! Me shoot b and then." He
Would have said, “ By and by.” ut to shorten the
sto , Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so
tic islr, that we had laughing enough, but still could
255 nonrnsox cnusoa.
thought he depended upon shaking the bear 011‘, and
we found the hear was too cunning for that, for he
would not go out far enough to be thrown down, but
clung fast with his broad claws and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would be the end of it, and
where the jest would be at last.
But Friday soon put us out of doubt, for seeing the
bear cling fast to the bough, and would not come any
farther, “W'ell, well,” says Friday, “you no come
farther, me go, me go; you no come to me, me come
to on.” And upon this he goes out to the smallest
of the bough, where it would bend with his
weight, and gently sliding down the bough, till he
came near enough to jump down on his feet, and
away he ran to his gun, takes it up, and stands still.
“ Well,” said I to him, “Friday, ‘ why don’t you
shoot him ?”—“No shoot,” says Friday, “no yet,
me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more
laugh.” And so he did; for when the bear saw his
enemy gone, he comes back from the bough, but
mighty leisurely, looking behind him every step, till
he got into the ody of the tree. Then with the hind-
er end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it
with his claws, and moving one foot at a time very
leisurely: at this juncture, just before he set his hind
feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close to him,
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot
him dead as a stone.
Then the rogue tumed about, to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased b our
looks, he fell a laughing himself very loud. “ 0 we
kill bear in my country,” said Friday. “ So you kill
them!" said 1, “why you have no guns.”—“No,”
says he, “no gun; but shoot great, much, long ar-
row.”
This was a good diversion to us, but we were still
in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves
ran much in my head; and indeed, except the noise
I once heard on the shores of Africa, I never heard
aomxson causoa. 257
'l‘hese things, and the ap roach of night, called us
aomxson causoa. 257
certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth saving; but we had three
Q
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us: so we left
him, and went forward on our journey.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more wolves in the
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
small plain, surrounded with woods on every side,
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
pass, to get through the wood, and then we should
come to a village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we enter-
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
wood, except that, in a little plain, within the wood,
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
one after another, as if they had been in chase of some
prey, and had it in view. They took no notice of us,
and were out of sight in a few moments. Upon this,
our guide, who was a wretched faint-hearted fellow,
bade us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there
were more wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us,
but we saw no more wolves till we came through
that wood, and entered the plain. Then we had cause
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
a dead horse, which the wolves had killed, and at least
a dozen of them at work, icking his bones, for they
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
them, but I would not suffer him, for we were likely
to have more business upon our hands than we were
aware of. We were not gone half over the plain, be-
fore we heard the wolves howl dreadfully; "and, just
after, we saw about a hundred coming directly towards
us, in a body, and most of them in a line, as regular
258 ROBINSON eaosoa.
scarcely knew in what manner to receive them; but
found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only
way. So we formed in a moment. But that we might
not have too much interval, I ordered that onl every
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
ley immediately, if they continued to advance upon
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
not load their fusils again, but stand ready each with
a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil and a pair
of pistols each man; by this method we were able to
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
dropped; several others were wounded, and went
bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. They stop-
ped, but did not immediately retreat, whereupon, re-
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
company to halloo as loud as we could: and it suc-
ceeded; for, upon our shout, they began toretire, and
ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259
in their rear, which—put them to the gallop, and away
they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we might lose no time, we kept going; but we
had little more than loaded our fusils, and put our-
selves into readiness, when we heard a terrible noise
in the same wood on our left.
The night was coming on, and the light began to
be dusky, which made it the worse on our side; but
the noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it
was the howling of those ravenous creatures; and,
on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one in our
front, and we hew not what course to take; but the
creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about
us, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were
three hundred of them. It happened, much to our ad-
vantage, that at the entrance of the wood, there lay
some large timber trees, cut down, and I drew my little
troop in among these trees, and placing ourselves in
a line, behind one long tree, I advised them all to
alight, and, keeping that tree before us, for a. breast-
work, to stand in a triangle or three fronts, enclosing
our horses in the centre. We did so; and it was well
we did, for never was a more furious charge than the
creatures made upon us in this place: they came on
us witha growling kind of noise, and mounted the
piece of timber, as if they were only rushing upon
their prey; and this fury was caused by their seeing
our horses behind us, which they aimed at. I ordered
'260 ROBINSON causos.
took their aim so sure, that they klled several wolves
'260 ROBINSON causos.
'260 ROBINSON causos.
'260 ROBINSON causos.
the second volley, we thought they stopped a little,
and I hoped they would have gone off, but it was but
'260 ROBINSON causos.
'260 ROBINSON causos.
we killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so
I called my servant, not Friday, but my other man,
and, givin him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a
train all ong the piece of timber, and let it be a
large train. He did so, and had but just time to get
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
'260 ROBINSON causos.
upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or
seven of them fell, or rather jumped, in among us,
'260 ROBINSON causos.
these in an instant, and the rest were so frightened
with the light, that they drew back a little.
'260 ROBINSON causos.
one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this
the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately
upon twenty lame ones, whose dreadful howling scared.
ROBINSON cavson. 261
We had killed about threescore of them, and had it
ROBINSON cavson. 261
of battle being thus cleared, we made forward again,
for we had near a league to go. we heard the rave-
nous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went,
several times ; and sometimes we fancied we saw some
of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were not
certain. In an hour more, we came to the town
where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible
ROBINSON cavson. 261
wolves and bears had broke into the village, to attack
the cattle and even the people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of the two wounds,
that he could go no farther, so we were obliged to
take another guide there, and go to Toulouse, where
we found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant coun-
try, and no snow, no wolves, or any thing like them.
travelled trom Toulouse to Paris, and, without
any considerable stay, came to Calais, and landed safe
at Dover, the 14th of January, after having had a se-
vere cold season to travel in. ~
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had, in a little time, all my new-discovered estate
safe about me ; the bills of exchange which I had
brought having been currently paid.v My guide and
pri -counsellor was in good old widow, who, in
gratitude for the money had sent her, thought no
pains too much, or care too great, to employ for me.
I thought of leaving my effects with her, and set-
ting out to the Brazils. But another scru le came
into my way, and that was religion ; for as had en-
tertained some doubts about the Roman religion,
while I was abroad, in my state of solitude, so I knew
there was no going to the Brazils, to settle there, un-
less I resolved to embrace the Catholic religion, with-
out reserve; except, on the other hand, I resolved to
262 ROBINSON caosoa.
die in the inquisition; so I resolved to stay at home,
262 ROBINSON caosoa.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who, in return, said that he could easily dispose of it
262 ROBINSON caosoa.
otfer it in my name to the two merchants, the sur-
vivors of my trustees, in the Brazils, who must fully
understand its value, and whom I knew to be very
rich, he believed they would be fond of buying it, he
262 ROBINSON caosoa.
sand pieces of eight the more for it.
Accordin 1y I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to
them, and 6 did so; and in about eight months
more, the ships being then returned, he sent me an
account, that they had accepted the offer, and had
remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a
correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me bills of exchange for thirty-
two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for t e
estate, reserving the payment of one hundred moidores
262 ROBINSON caosoa.
terwards to his son for his life, which the plantation
was to make good as a rent charge. Thus I have
262 ROBINSON caosoa.
a life of Providence's checker-work, which the world
will seldom show the like of. Beginning foolishly,
but closin much more happily than I had ever any
reason to ope for.
Any one would think that, with this good fortune,
I was past running any more hazards; but I was
inured to a wandering life, had no family, few rela-
tions, or acquaintance ; and though I had sold my
estate in the Brnzils, yet I could not forget that coun-
ti y, but hull a grout mind to be upon the wing again,
especially I could not resist the strong inclination I
had to see my island.
My true friend, the widow, dissuaded me from it,
and so far prevailed, that for almost seven years she
prevented my running abroad; during which time I
took my two nephews, the children of one of my
brothers, into my care. The eldest, having some-
thing of his own, I brcd up as a gentleman, and gave
hima settlement of addition to his estate after my
decease; the other I put out to a captain of a ship,
aosrxsox causes. 263
prising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and
sent him to sca. And this young fellow afterwards
drew me in, old as I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time I in part settled myself here:
I married, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter. But my wife dying, and my nephew com-
ing home, with good suooess, from a voyage to Spain,
my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity pre-
vailed, and I engaged to go in his ship as a private
trader to the East Indies. In this voyage I visited
my new colony in the island, saw my successors, the
Spaniards; had the whole story of their coming to,
and adventures in the island, after my departure. All
these things, with some surprising incidents, in some
new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may,
perhaps, give a tarther account of hereafter.

THE FARTHER
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.
THAT homely proverb, “What is bred in the bone
aosrxsox causes. 263
than in &e story of my life. Any one would think
that after thirty-five years' affliction, and many other
circumstances, which few men ever went through be-
fore, and after near seven years of enjoyment in the
fulncss of all things, grown old, and when it might
be allowed me to have had experience of every state
of middle life, and to which was best adapted to make
aman completely happy: I say, after all this, any
one would have thought that my propensity to ram-
264 noenvsox causes.
was so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn
out, or at least condensed, and I niight, at sixty-one
years of age. have been inclined to stay at home, and
not venture life and fortune any more. Nay, the
common motive of foreign adventures was gone, for
264 noenvsox causes.
Yet all these things did not dispose me to resist the
strong inclination I had to go abroad again; particu-
lar] the desire to see my new plantation in the is-
lan , and the colony I left there, ran in in head con-
tinually, I dreamed of it all night, and imagined it
all day; it was uppermost in my thoughts, and I
talked of it in my sleep. One time, I dreamed that
the villany of the three irate sailors was related to
264 noenvsox causes.
told me how the attempted to murder all the Span-
264 noenvsox causes.
laid u , to distress and starve them; things that had
never eard of, and not all of them true. And it was
so warm in my imagination, and so realized to me,
that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be rsuaded
but that it was, or would be true; also how resented
it, when the Spaniards complained to me; and how
I broughi them to justice, tried them, and ordered
them all hree to be hanged.
In this temper I had lived some years. I had no
enjoyment, or diversion, but what had something of
this in it, so that my wife, who saw my mind so bent
upon it, told me seriously one night, that she believed
there was some secret impulse of Providence upon
me, which had determined me to go thither again;
and that she found nothing hindered 1n going, but
my wife and children. She said she cou d not think
of parting with me, but she was assured, that if she
nonmsou causes. 266
that if the thing was determined above, she would
not be an obstruction. For if I resolved to go—(here
she found me very intent upon her words, so that it a
little disordered her, and she stopped.) I asked her
why she did not go on, and say w at she was going
to say. But her heart was too full, and tears stood
in her e es. “ Speak out, my dear,” said I, “ are you
nonmsou causes. 266
tionatel , “ I am far from willing. But if on are
resolv to go, and, rather than I will be t e onl
hindrance, I will go with you: for though I th'
it a preposterous thing for one of your years, yet if it
must be,” said she again, weeping, “I won t leave
you: for if it be of heaven, there is no resisting it,
and if heaven makes it our duty to go, it will be also
mine to go with you, ot erwise dispose of me, that I
may not obstruct it.”
The affection of my wife brought me a little out of
the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing.
I corrected my wandering fanc , and argued with
myself s'edately what business I d, after threescore
years, and after such a life of tedious sufferings and
disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner;
I say, what business had I to rush into any hazards,
nonmsou causes. 266
and poverty to run into ?
With these thoughts, I bought a little farm in the
county of Bedford, and removed thither. I had a
little convenient house upon it, and the land about it
was capable of improvement. I farmed my own land;
I had no rent to pay, and what I improved was for
my own family. ow indeed, I enjoyed that middle
state of life, which mv father so earnestly rectmmz-ud-
ed to me; a country ife :—
Free from vice, and free from care ;
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.
But amid this felicity, one blow from providence
unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach
upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me into
a relapse of the wandering disposition, which being
born in my blood, soon recovered its hold of me. This
blow was the loss of my wife.
It is not my business here to write an elegy upon
my wife, or to give a character of her particular
266 nournsorz onuson.
of all m enterprises; the engine, that by her pru-
dence r need me to that happy compass I was in, and
saved me from my extravagant and ruinous projects;
and did more to guide my rambling genius, than amo-
ther’s tears, a father’s instructions, a friend’s counsel,
and all my reasoning (powers. I was happy in listening
to her entreaties, an being moved by her tears, and
to the last degree made desolate by her loss. I was
like a shi without a pilot, that could only run “afore
the wind. ' My head was turned with the whimsics
of foreign adventures, and all the pleasures of m
farm, and family, were now nothing to me; in a wor ,
266 nournsorz onuson.
return to London; and in a few months after I did so.
It was now the begining of the year 1693, when
my nephew, whom I had made commander of a ship,
was come home from a short v0 age to Bilboa, being
266 nournsorz onuson.
chants had been roposing to him to go a voyage for
them to the East ndies and China, as private traders.
“ And now, uncle,” says he, “ if you will go to sea
with me, I‘ll land you upon our old habitation in the
island, for we are to touch at the Brazils." The
scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that I said
that if he agreed with the merchants, I would go.
But I would not promise to go further than my own
island. " Why, sir," says he, “ you don’t want t..
be left there again I hope ?"—“ Why," said I, “ can
on not take me up again in your return P” He said
it would not be possible to do so ; that the merchants
would never allow him to come that way with a loaded
ship of such value, it being a month‘s sail out of his
way, and might be three or four. “ Besides, sir, if I
should miscarry, and not return, then you would be
reduced to the condition you were in before.
This was very rational; but we both found out a
remedy for it, viz, to carry a framed sloop on board
the ship, which being taken in pieces, and shipped on
board the ship, might, by the carpenters, be set up
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 267
order to this, I made my will, and settled my estate
for my children, and (placed it in such hands, that I
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 267
them whatever might befall me : and as for their ed-
ucation, I left it wholly to my old friend the widow,
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 267
My nephew was ready to sail in January, 1694, and
I, with my man Friday, went on board, in the Downs,
the 8th, having a large cargo of all kinds of necessary
ROBINSON cnvsoa. 267
condition, I resolve to leave so, First, I took ser-
vants, whom I purposed to place there as inhabitants,
or at least, to set on work there upon my own account
while I stayed; and either to leave them there, or
carry them forward, as they might be willing. , Also
I carried two ca enters, a smith, and a very ingenious
fellow, a cooper y trade, and also a mechanic; for he
was dexterous at making wheels and hand-mills to
grind corn, a good turner, and pot-maker. I also
carried a tailor, who was to go passenger t0 the East
Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented to
stay on our new plantation, and proved a_ most ne-
cessary, handy fellow, in many other buisnesses besides
that of his trade.
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
and some thin English studs, for clothing the Span-
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
comfortably supply them for seven years. The ma-
terials which I carried for clothing, with gloves, hats,
shoes, stockings, and all such things for wearing,
amounted to above two hundred pounds, including beds,
bedding, and household stuff ; particularly kitchen
utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c., besides
near one hundred pounds more in iron work, nails,
tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, &c., &c.
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and
fusils, besides some pistols, a large quantity of shot,
three or four tons of lead, and two brass cannon ; also
a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses,
and the iron part of some spikes and halberts. I made
my ne hew so two small quarter-deck guns more
than 0 want for his ship, to leave behind, if
necessary, that when we come there, we might build
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
thought there would he need enough for it, and much
more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of the
island, as shall be seen in the course of this history.
We set out, and had a very fair gale of wind for
some time. About the 20th of February, late in the
evening, when the mate, having the watch, came into
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
it, the boy came in and told us the boatswain heard
another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-
deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing: but in a
few minutes we saw a great light, and ound there
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed
that there could be no land in that way in which the
268 nosmsos cnvsos.
for it appeared at W,N.W. We concluded it must be
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
the farther we sailed the greater the light appeared.
In about half an hour’s sailing, the wind being fair
for us, and the weather clearing up, we could plainly
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
of the sea. I was most sensibly touched by this dis-
aster, though not acquainted with the persons cngaged
in it. I recollected my former circumstances, and
what condition I was in, when taken up by the Por-
tuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to this
shi must be, if they had no other shi in company
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
give notice to them that there was help at hand, and
that they might try to save themselves in their boat :
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
they, it being very dark, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the
burning ship drove, waiting for daylight, when on a
sudden, to our great terror, the ship blew u in the
air, and in a few minutes the rest of the ski sunk.
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
men, who must all be either destroyed in the ship, or
be in the utmost distress in their boats, in the middle
of the ocean, which, because it was dark, I could not
see. However, to direct themas well as I could, I
caused lights to be hung out in all parts of the ship
where we could, and which we had lanterns for, and
nonnrsou cnvsos. 269
that there was a ship not far off.
About eight o’clock in the morning we discovered
the ship's boats, by the help of our perspective glasses;
and there were two of them1 both throng-ed with
people, and deep in the water. We perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw
our ship, and they did their utmost to make us see
them. We immediately spread our ancient, to let
them know we saw them, and hung a waft out as a
signal for them to come on board, and then made
more sail, standing directly to them. In a little more
than half an hour we came up with them, and took
them all in, being sixty-four, men, women, and chil-
dren, for there were a great many passengers.
It was a French merchant ship, of three hundred
tons, homcward bound from Quebec. The master
gave us a long account of the distress of his ship,
270 nonunion causoe.
of the steersman, but, on his crying out for help, was
as every body thought, entirely put out. But they
270 nonunion causoe.
270 nonunion causoe.
270 nonunion causoe.
in between the timbers, and t e ceiling of the ship,
it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all their sk' l,
and application. They had no more to do then but to
get into their boats, which were large, their long boat,
great shallop, and a small skiff. They had small hope
of their lives by getting into these boats at that d1s-
tance from any land. only, as they said well, that
270 nonunion causoe.
some ship might be at sea, and take them in.
It is impossible to express the gestures, strange eo-
stacies, and postures, which these poor delivered peo-
ple ran into, to express the j oy of their souls at so unex-
pected a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily des-
crihed; sighs, tears, groans, and a few motions of the
head and hands, make up the sum of its variety; but
an excess of joy and surprise, has a thousand extrava-
gancies in it. Some were in tears, some raging and
tearing themselves, as if in the greatest agonies ; some
raving, and lunatic; some ran about the ship stamp-
ing with their feet, others wringing their hands; some
were dancing, some singing; some laughing, more
crying; many not able to speak a. word; others sick
and vomiting; several swooning, and a few were
crossing themselves, and giving God thanks.
There were two priests among them, one an old
man, and the other a young man; and, strange! that
the oldest man was the worst. As soon as he set
his foot on board our shi , and saw himself safe, he
dropped down stone dea to all appearance; not the
least sign of life could be seen in him. Our surgeon
applied remedies to recover him, and was the only man
in the ship that believed he was not dead; and he open-
aosnvson cavsoa. 271
freely; inthree minutes after, the old man opened
his eyes; and he spoke, grew better, and in a little
time was quite well. After the blood was stopped, he
walked about, told us he was perfectly well, took a
drum of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and
“ came to himself.” About a quarter of an hour af-
ter, they came running into the cabin to the surgeon,
who was bleeding a French woman that had fainted,
and told him the priest had gone stark mad. He had
begun to revolve his change of circumstances, and
this put him into an ecstasy of joy ; his spirits whirled
about faster than the vessels could convey them ; the
aosnvson cavsoa. 271
for Bedlam. The surgeon gave him something to
dose and put him to sleep, which operated upon him,
and he waked next morning com osed and well.
The younger priest behaved 'mself with great
command of his passion, and was an example of a
aosnvson cavsoa. 271
he prostrated himself, in thankfulness for his deliv-
erance, in which I unhap ily disturbed him, thinking
he had been in a swoon; at he s akc calmly, thank-
ed me, told me he was giving Go thanks for his de—
liverance, begged me to leave him, and that, next to
his Maker, he would give me thanks also.
He continued in that posture about three minutes,
after I left him; then came to me, and with a great
272 nonrnsou cnvson.
had, under God, given him, and so many miserable
creatures, their lives. I told him that it was nothing
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men,
and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks
to God, who had made us the instruments of his mer-
cy to so many of his creatures. After this, the young
priest laboured to compose his fellow-passengers, en-
treated, argued, reasoned with them, to keep them
within the exercise of their reason.
The next day, having slept soundl , they were
another sort of people. Nothing of go manners, or
civil acknowledgments, for the kindness shown to
them, was wanting: the French, it is well known, are
apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me, desiring to consult with me and
m nephew what should be done with them. They
told us that as we had saved their lives, so all they
had was little enough for a return for the kindness
received. The captain said they had saved some
money, and some things of value, in their boats,
272 nonrnsou cnvson.
cept it, they were to make an offer of it all to us;
they only desired to be set on shore somewhere,
where they might get passage to France.
I told the French captain that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true; but that it was our
duty to do so, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we
would desire to be so delivered, if we were in the like
extremity; that we had done nothing for them but
what we believed they would have done for us if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but that we
took them up to save them, not to plunder them; and
that it would be a barbarous th'ng to take that which
272 nonrnsou cnvson.
272 nonrnsou cnvson.
save them, and then to kill them ourselves; save
them from drowning, and abandon them to starving;
and, therefore, I would not let the least thing to be
taken from them. As to setting them on shore, I
aonmsou causoa. 273
ship was bound to the East Indies; and though we
were driven out of our course to the westward a great
way, which, perhaps, was directed by heaven on pur-
pose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us
wilfully to change our voyage, on this particular ac-
count; nor could my ne hew, the captain, answer it
to the freighters with whom he was under charter-
party to pursue his voyage by way of Brazil: and all
we could do for them was to put ourselves in the way
of meeting with ships, bound from the West Indies,
and get them passage to England or to France.
aonmsou causoa. 273
could not but be very thankful for it; but they were
aonmsou causoa. 273
Indies. They entreated me, that seeing I was driven
so far to the westward before I met with them, I
would keep on the same course to the banks of New-
foundland, where it was possible they might meet with
some ship, that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was a reasonable request, and there-
fore consented, and in about a week after we made the
banks of Newfoundland, where we put all our French
people on board a bark, which they hired to carry them
to France. But the young priest, hearing we were
bound to the East Indies, desired to go the voyage
with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coro-
mandel. I readily agreed to that; for I liked the man,
and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards.
Also, four of the seamen agreed to go, and proved very
useful fellows. From thence we directed our course
for the “fest Indies, steering away S. S. E. for about
twenty days, sometimes little or no wind at all.
B
It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes N.,
and the 19th day of March, 1694, when we spied a
sail, our course was S. E. S. We soon perceived it
was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us, but at
274 ROBINSON causes.
ing a little nearer, we found she had lost her main-
topmast, foremast, and bolt-sprit, and presently she
274 ROBINSON causes.
pretty good, wind at N. N. \V. a fresh gale, and we
soon came to speak with her.
We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from
Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the road a few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurri-
cane, while the captain and chief mate were on shore,
so that they were in an indifferent case to bring the
ship home. They had been nine weeks at sea, and
had met another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their
knowledge to the westward, and in which they lost
their masts. They expected to see the Bahama Is-
lands, but were driven away again to the south-east
by a strong gale N. N. W. the same that blew now;
and having no sails to work the ship with, but a main-
course, and a kind of square sail, upon a jury fore-
mast, they could not lie near the wind, but were trying
to stand away for the Canaries.
But worst of all, they were almost starved for want
of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone:
274 ROBINSON causes.
left in the ship, and had had none for eleven days;
the only relief they had was, their water was not done,
274 ROBINSON causes.
had sugar enough; a few sweetmeats, and seven casks
of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-
servant on board, as passengers, and, thinking the ship
was ready to sail, came on board the evening before
the hurricane began; and having no provisions of
their own, they were in a more deplorable condition
than the rest; for the seamen, being reduced to such
an extreme necessity, had no compassion, we may be
sure, for the poor passengers.
I had not known this part. if my curiosity had not
led me, the weather being fair, and the wind abated,
to go on board the ship. The second mate, who com-
manded the ship, had been on board our ship ; and he
told me that they had three passengers on board, in a
deplorable condition. “ I believe they are dead,” said
he, “for I have heard nothing of them for two days;
and I was afraid to inquire after them, I had nothing
to relieve them with."
We gave them what relief we could spare. But
now they were in a new danger, for they were afraid
of eating too much, even of that little we gave them.
The mate, or commander, brought six men in his boat,
they looked like skeletons, and were so weak that they
could hardl sit to their oars. The mate himself was
very ill, an half starved, for he had reserved nothing
from the men, and went share and share with them
in every bit they ate.
I cautioned him to eat sparingly of the meat before
him, but he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he
began to be sick and out of order. So he stopped
awhile, and our surgeon mixed him 11 something
with some broth, which he said would be both food
and physio, and after he had taken it he grew better.
I forgot not the men; for I ordered victuals to be given
them, and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate
it: and two of them ate with such greediness, that
they were in danger of their lives the next morning.
While the mate was relating their miserable con—
dition, I could not forget the three oor creatures in
the great cabin, viz. the mother, er son, and the
maid-servant, of whom he had heard nothing for two
or three days, and whom he seemed to confess they
had wholly neglected, their own extremities being so
great; by which I understood, that they had given
them no food at all, and that therefore they must have
perished, and be all lying dead somewhere.
As I kept the mate, called captain, on board with
his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starv-
ing crew, but ordered my own boat to their ship, with
my mate and twelve men, to them a sack of
276 nonrssox cnvsos.
geon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled
while they stayed, and to guard the cook room, to
prevent the men taking it to eat raw, or taking it out
of the pot before it was well boiled, and to give every
man but a little at a time; and, by this caution, he
preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with the food which was to save their
lives. I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what state the poor passengers were in, and
if they were alive to give them what refreshment was
proper, and the surgeon Ve him a large pitcher of
the prepared broth, whic he did not question would
276 nonrssox cnvsos.
but having a great mind to see the scene of misery,
I took the captain of the ship with me, and went my-
self a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men tumultuous to get the meat
out of the boiler before it was ready. However we
276 nonrssox cnvsos.
time, and the next time gave them more, and at last
276 nonrssox cnvsos.
ery of the poor passengers in the cabin was far be-
yond the rest. For the ship’s company had so little
276 nonrssox cnvsos.
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or
seven days, they had really had no food at all, and,
for several days before, very little. The poor mother,
who was a woman of good sense, and good breeding,
had spared all she could get for her son, that at last
she sunk under it. And when our mate went in, she
ROBINSON causoa. 277
sides, between two chairs, lashed fast, and her head
sunk in between her shoulders, like a corpse, though
not quite deed. My mate said all he could to revive
and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth
into her mouth. She opened her lips, and lifted up
one hand, but could not speak: yet she understood
what he said, and made signs to him, intimating that
it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if
she would have said, they should take care of him.
But the mate, who was much moved at the sight, tried
to get some broth into her mouth, But it was too
late, she died the same night.
The youth, who was preserved at the price of his
ROBINSON causoa. 277
lay in a cabin bed with little life vin him. He ad a
piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up
the rest. However, being young, the mate got some-
thing down his throat, and he began to revive, though
by giving him, some time after, but two or three
spoonfuls extra he was very sick, and brought it up
again.
The poor maid lay upon the deck, hard by her mis-
tress, just like one that had fallen down in apoplexy.
Her limbs were distorted, one of her hands was clasp-
ed round the frame of a chair, and she griped it so
hard, that we could not easily make her let go, her
other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay together,
set fast against the frame of the cabin table: in short
she lay just like one in the agonies of death. The
poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and
ROBINSON causoa. 277
hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two
or three da 3, and whom she loved tenderly. We
knew not w t to do with this poor girl; for when
ROBINSON causoa. 277
her, he had her upon his ds, as to her senses, for
she was nearly distracted for a. long time after.
Let the reader consider that visits to the sea are not
like journeys into the country, where people stay a
week or a fortnight at a lace. Our business was to
relieve this ship s crew, ut not lie by for them; and
though they were willing to steer the same course
with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail to
keep pace with a ship that had no masts. But as
their captain begged of us to help him to set up a.
main-topmast, and a kind of topmast to his 'ury fore-
mast, we did lie by them for three or four days, and
278 nosrnson onusos.
barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuits, and a pro-
278 nosrnson onusos.
spare, and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we
left them, taking on board with us, at their own re-
quest, the youth, the maid, and all their goods. The
young lad was about seventeen years of age, a retty,
modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected by the
loss of his mother; and b the loss of his father a few
months before in the Bar adoes.
I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees, 32 minutes,
and had hitherto had a tolerable Voyage as to weather,
278 nosrnson onusos.
trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind, wea-
ther, currents, &c. on the rest of our voyage, but
only observe, that I came to my old habitation, in the
278 nosrnson onusos.
found the place, for as I came to it, and went from it
before, on the south and east side of the island, as
coming from the Brazils, so now coming in between
the mainland and the island, and having no chart for
the coast, nor any land-mark, I did not know it when
I saw it, or know whether I saw it or not.
We beat about a great while, and went on shore on
several islands, in the mouth of the great river
Oroonoque; and I learned, by coasting the shore,
that I was under one great mistake before, viz. that
the continent, which I thought I saw from the island
I lived in, was no continent, but a long island, or a
ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side
of the extended mouth of that river, and that the sav-
ages who came to my island were not those which
we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other barbarians
of the same kind, who inhabited nearer to our side
than therest. I visited several of these islands to no
purpose.v At length I came fair on the south side of
my island, and I resently knew the place. So I
brought the ship sail: to anchor, broadside with the
little creek, where my old habitation was. I called
for Friday, and asked him if he knew where he was.
He looked about a little, and clapping his hands, cried,
“0 yes! 0 there! 0 yes! 0 there i” pointing to our
old habitation, and fell a dancing and capering like a
mad fellow, and I had much ado to keep him from
jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
“Well, Friday,” said I, “do you think we shall
nonmson causoa. 279
shall we see your father F” The fellow stood mute
a good while; but when I named his father, the poor
affectionate creature looked dejected, and the tears ran
down his face plentifully. “What is the matter,
Friday,” said I, “are you troubled because you may
see your father ?"—“ No, no,” says he. “no see him
more, no, never more see again !”—“ Why so, Friday,
how do you know that P"—“ 0 no, no,” sa s Friday,
“ he long ago die, long ago, he much 01 man.”—
“Well, well, Friday, you don’t know. But shall we
see any one else then P" The follow, it seems, had
better eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above
my old house, and though we lay half a league oif,
he cries out, “ Me see! me see! yes, es! me see
much men there, and there !” I looked, ut I could
see nobody, no, not with the perspective glass, which
was, because I could not hit the place, for the fellow
was right, as I found, upon inquiry, the next day,
230 nonmson' onusos.
knowing what to think of us. As soon as Friday said
he saw people, I caused the English ancient to be
230 nonmson' onusos.
were friends, and in about a quarter of an hour after
w‘. erceived a smoke rise from the side of the creek.
So immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday
230 nonmson' onusos.
truce, I went directly on shore, taking with me the
oung friar, to whom I had told the whole story of my
iving there, and every particular, both of myself, and
those that I left there; therefore he was very desirous
to go with me. We had, besides, about sixteen men,
very well armed; but we had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore near high water, we rowed
230 nonmson' onusos.
eye upon was the Spaniard, whose life I had saved,
and whom I knew by his face perfectly well. I ordered
nobody to 0 on shore but myself, but there was
no keeping riday in the boat, for the affectionate
creature had s ied his father at a distance, and if
they had not 1%: him go on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
230 nonmson' onusos.
bow. It would have made any man shed tears, to
230 nonmson' onusos.
to his father; how he embraced him, kissed him,
stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him
down upon a tree, and lay down b him; then stood
and looked at him, for a quarter 0 an hour together;
then lay upon the ground, and stroked his legs, and
kissed them, and then got up again, and stared at him '
one would have thought the fellow bewitchod; and
all the while he did this, he would be telling him one
story or another of his travels, and what had happened
to him abroad, to divert him. In short if the same
230 nonmson' onusos.
parents in our parts of the world, one would be tempt-
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
ed to say, there would be no need of the Fifth
Commandment.
It would be endless to notice all the ceremonies
and civilities that the Spaniards received me with.
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
was come, till I said, “ Seignior, do you not know me ?”
At which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket
to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad,
and, saying something in Spanish, came forward and
embraced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to
know that face again, that he had once seen, as of an
angel from heaven sent to save his life. He said
many handsome things, asawell-bred Spaniard knows
how; and then beckoning to the person who attended
him, bade him call out his comrades. He asked me,
if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would
‘ve me possession of my own house again, and where
should see there had been but mean improvements.
So I walked along with him; but, alas! I could no
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
there, for they ad planted so many trees, and placed
them in such a posture, so thick and close to one
another, and in ten years’ time they were grown so
big, that the place was inaccessible, except by such
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
nonrnsos CRUBOE. 281
told me, I would say there was need of it, when they
had told me how they had passed their time since
arriving in the island, es ecially after I was gone.
He told me, he could not but have some satisfaction
in my good fortune, when he heard that I was gone
in a good ship ; and that he had often a strong per-
suasion, that one time or other he should see me again.
While saying this, came the man whom he had
sent back, and with him eleven men. In their dress
it was impossible to guess what nation they were of;
but he made all clear both to them and to me. First,
he turned to me, and pointing to them, said, “ These,
sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to
ou;” and turning to them, and pointing to me, he
et them know who I was. U on which, they came
up, one by one, but as if the ad been ambassadors
or noblemen, and I a monarc , or a conqueror.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the
island, after my going away, has so many incidents
which the former part of my relation will help to un-
derstand, and which will, in most of the particulars,
refer to that account, that I cannot but commit them
to the reading of those that come after me.
282 aonmsos causes.
account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat to fetch them over. He told me nothing re-
markable happened to them on the way, they having~
very calm weather, and a smooth sea. His country-
men were overjoycd to see him. He was the principal
man; (the captain of the vessel they had been ship-
wrecked in having been dead some time.) They were
the more sur rised to see him, because they knew
that he was gallen into the hands of savages, who
would devour him; that when he told them the story
of his deliverance, and in what manner he was for-
nished for carrying them away, it was like a dream to
them; their astonishment was like that of J oseph’s
brethren, when he told them who he was, and the
sto of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court. But when
he s owed them the arms, powder, ball, and provisions,
that he brought for their voyage, they were restored
to themselves, rejoiced in their deliverance, and im-
mediately prepared to come away with him. Their
282 aonmsos causes.
were obliged to trespass upon their friendly savages,
and to borrow two large canoes, on pretence of going
282 aonmsos causes.
In these they came away the next morning. They
wanted no time to get ready; ~f0r they had neither
baggage, clothes, provisions, nor anything but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which
they made their bread. They were three weeks absent,
and in that time, unluckilyfor them, I had the occasion
offered for my esca e, and to get away from the island,
leavin three of tie most impudent, hardened, dis-
agreea le villains behind me.
The only just thing the rogues did, was, that when ‘
the Spaniards came on shore they gave my letter to them,
provisions, and other relief, as I had ordered them,
and the long paper of directions, which I had left
them, containing the particular methods which I took
for managing every art of my life there, the way I
baked my bread, bred) my tame goats, and planted my
corn, how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and every
thing I did. Nor did they refuse to accommodate the
Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very
well for some time; the ' gave them an equal ml-
mission into the cave, and egan to live very sociabl ;
and the head Spaniard, who had seenm meth s,
and Friday's father together, managed all t eir affairs.
The Englishmen did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises, and when
they came home at night, the Spaniards provided
their suppers.
nonmson causon. 283
if the others had let them alone, which they could
nonmson causon. 283
in the manger, they would not eat themselves, nor
let others. At last it broke out into open war, it began
with all the insolence that can be imagined, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and to common sense;
nonmson causon. 283
iards themselves, as the aeousers, yet when I came to
examine the fellows, they could not den a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars, must supply
a defect in my former relation. I forgot to state that
just as we were weighing anchor to set sail, there
was a little guarrel on board our ship, which I was
afraid woul turn to a second mutiny; nor was it
appeased, till the captain, rousing his courage, and
taking us all to his assistance, parted them by force,
and makin two of the most refractory fellows pri-
soners, he aid them in irons; and as they had been
active in the former disorders, he threatened to carry
‘ them in irons to England, and have them hanged
there for mutiny. This frightened some other men
in the ship; and some of them had hinted to the
rest, that the captain gave them good words on]
for the present, til they should come to some Englis
port, and that then they should all be tried for their
ives.
The mate acquainted us with this; upon which it
was desired that I, who passed for a great man
among them, should go down with the mate md tell
them that they might be assured, if they behaved well
the rest of the voyage, all they had done should be
pardoned. I went, and, after assing “ my honour's"
word to them, they appear easy, and the more so
when I caused the two men in irons, to be released
and forgiven.
But this mutiny brou ht us to an anchor for that
night, the wind falling ea in. Next morning we found
that our two men, who had been in irons, had stole
each of them a musket and other wea ns; what
powder or shot they had we knew not; an had taken
the ship’s pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and
run away with her to their companions in roguery
on shore. I instant] ordered the long boat on shore,
with twelve men and the mate, to seek the rogues;
2S4 ROBINSON causos.
2S4 ROBINSON causos.
2S4 ROBINSON causos.
but the other three villains were wickeder than these,
for after they had been three days, they turned their
new-comers out of doors to shift for themselves, nor
could they, for a good while, be persuaded to give
them any food ; the Spaniards had not yet come.
When the Spaniards came on shore, the business
began to go forward: the Spaniards would have per-
suaded the three English brutes to take in their two
countrymen again, that they might be all one family,
but they would not hear of it. So the two poor fellows
nosrxson causes. 285
try would make them live comfortably, the pitched
their tents on the north shore of the islan a little
more to the west, to be out of the danger of the
savages, who always landed on the east part of the
island. Here the built two huts, one to lodge in,
and the other to lay up their magazines and stores
in; and the S iards havin given them corn for seed,
and some of t e as whichg had left them, they dug,
and lanted, an enclosed, after the pattern I had set
for t em all, and began to live retty well.
They were going on in this little thriving posture,
when the three rogues, their own countrymen too,
came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the governor had given them possession
of it, and nobody else had any ri ht to it: and they
should build no houses upon their ground, unless
they would pay them rent for them.
The two men thought the jested, and asked them
nosrxson causes. 285
had built, and tell them what rent they demand .
And one of them merrily told them, if they were ground
landlords, he ho , if they built tenements u n the
land, they woul according to the custom of a 1 land-
lords, grant them a long lease, and bade them fetch a
scrivener to draw the writings. One of the three,
cursing and raging, told them that they should see
they were not in jest; and going a little distance,
nosrxson causes. 285
286 nonrnson cnosoa.
286 nonrnson cnosoa.
burnt down in a few moments, if one of the two had
286 nonrnson cnosoa.
The fellow was in such a rage at being thrust away,
that he turned upon him with a long pole he had in
his hand ; and had not the man avoided the blow, and
run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His
comrade, seeing the danger the were both in, ran in
after him, and immediately bot came out with their
muskets; and the man who was struck with the pole,
knocked the fellow down who began the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, before the other two could
come to help him ; and then seeing the rest come at
them, they stood together, presenting their pieces to
them, and bade them stand off.
286 nonrnson cnosoa.
honest men, made desperate by his danger, told them
if they offered to move hand or foot, they were all
dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down
their arms. This they did not; but seein him so
resolute, it brought them to a parley, and t ey con-
sented to take their wounded man with them and be
gone : it seems the fellow was wounded with the blow.
But. it would be tedious to tell of their villainy; such
as treading down their corn, shooting three young
kids, and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to
breed up tame for their store, and plaguing them
night and day in this way, it forced the two men to
286 nonrnson cnosoa.
286 nonrnson cnosoa.
solved to go the castle, my 01 dwelling, where the
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together, in-
tending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should
see fair play. So they got up in the morning before
day, came to the place, and called the Englishmen by
their names, telling a Spaniard that answered, that
they wanted to speak with them.
The day before two of the Spaniards, having been
in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen,
whom I call the honest men; and he had made com-
plaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they
ad met with from their three countrymen. When
the Spaniards and they were all at supper, he took the
freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, though in
gentle terms, at which they took great oifenee. The next
morning they went all trooping away, swearing to
burn and demolish the habitation of the other two
men, and muttered some insolent things of what the
nonrnson canson. 287
When the came thither, and found the men gone,
Atkins calls out to his comrades, “ Ha! Jack, here’s
nonrnson canson. 287
mused awhile to think what should be the occasion of
their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested that
the S aniards had given them notice of it; and with
that t ey shook hands and swore to one another that
they would be revenged of the Spaniards. Then they fell
to work with the poor men’s habitation. They did
nonrnson canson. 287
houses, and left not the least stic standing, or scaroo
any sign where they stood; they also tore in pieces,
and squandered their household stuff.
nonrnson canson. 287
nonrnson canson. 287
three ; so that, had they met, there would have been
bloodshed, for they were all ve stout, resolute fel-
nonrnson canson. 287
the came to the Spaniards and told them what they
ha done, by we of bravado ; and one of them step-
pingu to one o the Spaniards, as if they had been
a 0011 e of boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was
nonrnson canson. 287
his face, sa s to him, “ And you, seignior J aek Span-
iard, shall ve the same sauce, if on do not mend
your manners." The Spaniard, w o, thoughaquiet,
civil man, was brave and strong, looking steadily at
him, and then, having no weapon in his hand, step-
288 ROBINSON causos.
288 ROBINSON causos.
his istol at the Spaniard immediately. He missed
his Bod , for the bullets went through his hair; but
one of em touched the tip of his ear, and he bled
retty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe
he was more hurt than he was, and that put him into
some heat; but now, resolving to go through with
his work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket,
288 ROBINSON causos.
when the rest of the Spaniards, in the cave, came out,
and, calling to him not to shoot, they secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were disarmed, and found they had
made the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own
countrymen, the began to cool, and giving the Span-
iards better wor s, would have their arms again; but.
the Spaniards, considering the feud that was between
them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would
be the best to keep them from one another, told them
they would do them no harm ; and if they would live
peaceably, they would be willing to assist and associ-
ate with them as before; but they could not restore
their arms while they appeared resolved to do mis-
chief to their own countrymen, and had even threat-
ened them all to make them their servants. The
rogues being refused their arms, went away ragin
like madman, threatenin what they would do, though
288 ROBINSON causos.
288 ROBINSON causos.
an; injury to their plantation and cattle, for if they
di , they would shoot them, as they would do rave-
nous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they
fell into their hands alive, they would certainly be
hanged. As soon as they were gone, came back the
two men, in passion and rage, though of another kind;
ROBINSON causes. 289
demolished and destroyed, they had provocation
enough: they could scarce have room to tell
their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them
theirs; and it was strange that three men should thus
bully so many, and receive not the least punishment
for it. The Spaniards despised them, and having
disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but
the two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy
against them. ‘
But the Spaniards interposed, and told them, that
as they were disarmed, they could not consent that
ROBINSON causes. 289
and perhaps kill them. “ But," said the grave Span-
iard, “we will endeavour to make them do you jus-
tice, if you will leave it to us; for they will come to
us again when their passion is over, not being able
to subsist without our aid, We promise you to make no
peaee with them without having full satisfaction for
on.” The two Englishmen yielded to this very re-
uctantly.
ROBINSON causes. 289
ROBINSON causes. 289
lived on turtle’s eggs, came back to the grove; and
ROBINSON causes. 289
side of the creek, they came in a. very submissive
manner, and begged to be received again into the fam-
ily. The Spaniards used them very civilly, but told
them that they could not relieve them unless they
would replace, as well as they could, the things they
had destroyed.
They submitted to this, and as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very
orderly, and the whole society lived pleasantly to-
gether a ain; but these three fellows could not be
persuade to work; I mean, for tibemselves, except
now and then, just as they please . But the Span-
iards told them plainly, that if they would live socia-
s
bly together, and study the good of the plantation,
they would Work for them, and let them walk about
and be as idle as they pleased. Having lived har-
moniously together for a month or two, the Spaniards
gave them their arms again, and liberty to go abroad
as before. It was not above a week after they had
these arms, but the ungrateful creatures began to be
as insolent as before. But an accident happening
presently upon this, which endangered the safety of
them all, they were obliged to lay by all private re-
sentments, and look to the preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the Spaniard whose
life I had saved, who was now the captain, or gover-
nor, of the rest, found himself very uneasy 1n the
night, and could not get any sleep. He was erfect-
ly well in body, but found his thoughts tum tuous;
290 nonmson causes.
ther, but he was broad awake. Thus he lay a great
while, but growing more uneasy, he resolved to rise.
Being gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark, he
could see nothing; and, hearing no noise, he laid him
down again; but he could not sleep, for his thoughts
were to the last degree uneasy, and yet he knew not
for what.
Having made some noise with rising and walking
about, another of them waked, and asked' who it was
that was up. The governor told him how it had been
with him. “Say you so ?" said the other Spaniard.
“ Such things are not to be slighted; there is some mis-
chief working near us." And he asked him, “ Where
are the Englishmen P” “ They are all in their huts,”
says he, “ safe enough.” The Spaniards had kept
possession of the main apartment, and had made a
place where the three Englishmen, since their last
mutiny, always quartered by themselves, and could
not come at the rest. “ Well," says the Spaniard,
“there is something in it, I am persuaded.”
They went out to the top of the hill, where I used
to go; but when they were going round their grove,
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 291
very little way off from them, and hearing the voices
of men, even of a great number. The governor and
the man, surprised with this sight, ran back imme-
diately, and reused their fellows, telling them of the
imminent danger they were all in, and they again as
readily took the alarm, and ran out to see how things
stoo .
After having mused a great while, they resolved,
while it was dark, to send the old savage (Friday's
father) out as a spy, to learn, if they were savages,
what the came for, and what they intended to do,
and the li e. The old man readily undertook it, and
stripping himself quite naked, as most of the savages
were, away he went. In an hour or two, he brought
word, that he had been among them undiscovered,
that there were two parties, of two nations, who had
war with one another, and had had a great battle in
their own country, and that both sides having had
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 291
chance anded in the same island, to devour their
Erisoners; but coming by chance to the same place
ad spoiled all their mirth; that they were in a great
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 291
again, as soon as daylight began to appear; and he
did not perceive that they had any notion of any
body’s being on the island but themselves. He had
hardly ended his story, when they perceived by the
noise they made, that the two little armies were en-
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 291
The battle held two hours, before they could guess
which party would be beaten; but that party which
was nearest us began to appear weakest, and soon
ROBINSON CBUSOE. 291
great consternation, lest any of those should run into
the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and dis-
cover the place, and that the pursuers should do the
like in search for them. As they expected, three of
the routed army tied for life, and crossing the creek,
ran directly into the place, not knowing whither they
went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter.
Upon this the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity,
would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives : but,
sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered
them to go round, come behind them, sur rise, and
take them prisoners, which was done. T e rest of
292 ROBINSON causes.
to sea ; the victors retired, and made no pursuit, but
drawing themselvesainto a body together, gave two
292 ROBINSON causes.
ended. The same day in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the S aniards
had their island again to themselves; and cy saw
no savages for several years after.
This deliverance tamed even the three English
brutes, and, for a while they were tractable, and went
about the business of the whole society well enou h;
planted, sowed, reaped, and were quite agreeable; at
some time after, they fell into such measures again
as brought them into great trouble.
The three savages who were took risoners, were
made servants or slaves; they were a stout, lusty
fellows. After some time, one of the Englishmen, a
most turbulent fellow, being in a rage with one of the
slaves, because he had not done something right which
he bade him do. and seemed a little untraotable, drew
a hatchet out of his frog belt, and fell upon the poor
savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of
the Spaniards, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous
cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but
struck into his shoulder, ran to him, and, entreating
him not to murder the poor man, clapped in between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The
fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serve
him as he intended to serve the savage, which the
Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and, with a
nonmsox cavsos. 293
their corn land,) knocked the brute down. Another
Englishman, running to help his comrade. knocked
the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more
came to help their man, and a third Englishman fell
nonmsox cavsos. 293
other weapons than hatchets and other tools, except '
this third Englishman, who had one of my old rusty
cutlasses, with which he made at the last S aniards,
and wounded them both. This fray set e whole
family in an uproar, and more help coming, they took
the three Englishmen prisoners. The question was,
what should be done w1th them. They had been so
often mutinous, and were so desperate, and idle, that
they knew not what course to take with them; for
they valued not what hurt they did to any man, so
that it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard who was governor, told them, that
if they had been his own countrymen, he would have
hanged them all, for all laws, and governors, were to
preserve societ , and those who were dangerous to so-
ciety ought to e cast out of it; but as they were Eng-
lishmen, and that it was to the kindness of an Eng-
lishman that they all owed their deliverance, he would
use them with all possible lenity, and would leave
them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen,
their countrymen. One of them stood up, and desired
it might not be left to them; “For,” as s he, “I am
sure we ought to sentence them to t e gallows.”
And with that he told how Will Atkins, had roposed
nonmsox cavsos. 293
murder all the Spaniards, when they were in their
slee .
ghen the Spaniard governor heard this, he called
to Will Atkins, “How, Seignior Atkins, would on
murder us all l’ What have you to say that ?” hat
hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he'
said it was true, and they would do it before they had
done with them. “ Well, but Seignior Atkins," said
the Spaniard, calmly, and smiling, “what have wev
done to you that you would kill us ? and what would
you get b killing us ? and what must we do to pre-
vent you killing us 3’ We must kill you or you will
kill us. Why will you put us to the necessity of this,
Seignior Atkins ?”
Atkins was in a great rage, which obliged them to
consider seriously what was to be done. After a
294 nonmson causon.
disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, pow-
der, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the
society, and left to live where they would, and how
they could, by1 themselves; but none of the Spaniards
or English, s ould converse with them, or have any
thing to do with them; that thq' should not come
within a certain distance of the place where the rest
dwelt; and that if they offered to spoil, burn, kill, or
destroy any of their corn, plantings, or buildings,
fences, or cattle, they should die without mercy, and
294 nonmson causon.
t em.
They went away sullen and refractory, neither con-
tented to go, or stay; but they went pretending to
go and choose a place in which to settle themselves,
to plant and live by themselves ; and some provisions
were given them, but no weapons.
294 nonmson causon.
some victuals, and told the ovemor where they had
pitched their tents, and maried out a habitation and
plantation. Here they built two handsome huts, like
my habitation, being close under the shade of a hill,
having some trees growing already on three ides of
it, so that by planting others it would be ve easily
covered from the sight, unless narrowly seare ed for.
They desired some dried goat-skins for beds and cov-
ering, which were given them; and upon giving their
words, that they would not disturb the rest, or injure
their plantations, the gave them hatchets and what
other tools they could, spare, some peas, barley, and
rice, for sowing, any thing they wanted but arms and.
ammunition.
About three quarters of a year, a new frolic took
these rogues, which, together with their former vil-
lainy, brought mischief enough on them, and had
nearly been the ruin of the whole colony. The three
new associates began to be weary of the laborious life
they had led, and that without hope of bettering their
circumstances; and a whim took them to make a voy-
age to the continent, from whence the savages came,
to try to seize some prisoners among the natives there,
and bring them home, to do the laborious part of their
work for them.
They came down to the Spaniards one morning, and,
in very humble terms, desired to speak with them.
The Splaniards very readily heard what they had to
say, w Zeh was this: that they were tired of living
in the manner they did; that they were not hand
enough to make the necessaries they wanted, am;
that, having no hel , they should be starved; but if
the Spaniards woulg give them leave to take one of
the canoes which they came over in, and give them
arms and ammunition for their defence, they would
go over to the main and seek their fortune, and not
trouble them to supply them with provisions.
The Spaniards kindly told them, that if they were
resolved to go, they should not- go naked men, and be
in no condition to defend themselves ; and that, though
ROBINSON enusou. 295
for themselves, yet they would let them have two
muskets, a pistol, and a eutlass, and each man a hat-
ROBINSON enusou. 295
They acce ted the offer, and having baked them bread
ROBINSON enusou. 295
296 nonnssos cavsoa.
basket full of dried grapes. fresh water, and a young
kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a
yoyago over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
road.
The boat was a large one, and would have carried
296 nonnssos cavsoa.
to manage; but as they had a fair breeze, and the
296 nonnssos cavsoa.
of a long ole, and a sail of four large goat skins
dried, whic they had sewed or laced together; and
away they went merrily enough. The Spaniards
called after them, “ Bon voyajo,” and no man thought
of seeing them again.
The Spaniards often said one to another, and the
two honest Englishmen, how comfortably they lived,
now those three turbulent fellows were gone. As for
their returning, that was the remotest thin from
their thoughts that could be imagined ; when ehold,
after twenty-two days' absence, one of the English-
men being abroad upon his planting work, saw three
strange men coming towards him, at a distance, two
of them with uns upon their shoulders. Away he
296 nonnssos cavsoa.
and said they were all undone, for strangers had
landed 11 on the island, he could not tell who. The
Spaniar said, “ The are savages, to be sure."-—“No,
no,” says the Enin men, " they are men in clothes,
with arms.”—“Nay, then,” says the Spaniard,“ why
are you concerned? if they are not savages they must
be friends; for there is no christian nation upon earth
but will do us good, rather than arm.”
While debating thus, came the three Englishmen,
and standing Without the wood, hallooed to them.
They knew their voices, and so all the wonder ceased.
But now this was the question; what made them come
again F It was'not long before they brought the men
in, who gave them a hill account of their voyage ; viz.
that they reached the land in two days, and found the
people very courteous and friendly to them, and they
nosrssos causes. 297
sociable; and also the women were very forward to
supply them with anything they could get for them
to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their
heads. They continued there four days, and inquired
of them by si ns, what nations were this way, and
nosrssos causes. 297
people, that lived almost every way, who used to eat
men; but as for themselves, the never ate men or
women, except such as they took in the wars.
The Englishmen inquired, when they had a feast
of that kind and they told them two moons ago,
nosrssos causes. 297
that their great king had two hundred prisoners now,
and was feeding them fat for the next feast. The
Englishmen seemed desirous to see the prisoners,
but the others thought the wanted some of them for
their own eating. So they eckoned to them, pointing
to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising, to
signi , that the next morning, at sunrising, they
woul bring some for them; and the next morning,
nosrssos causes. 297
them to the Englishmen.
As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they
did not know what to do; to refuse the prisoners,
would have been the highest affront to the savage
glentry, and what to do with them they knew not.
owever, they resolved to acce t of them, and in re-
turn gave the savages one of t eir hatchets, an old
key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which,
though they did not understand, the seemed ex-
treeml pleased with; and then tying t e poor crea-
tures‘ ands behind them, they dragged the prisoners
into the boat for our men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away im-
mediately, or they that gave them this noble present
would have expected that they should have killed two
or three of them the next morning, and invited the
donors to dinner. Having taken their leave, they
ut off with their boat, and came towards another
island, where they liberated their prisoners, they bein
too many for their occasion ; after which they sailei
home again.
When they had given this history, the S aniards
asked them where their new family was; an , being
told that they had put them into one of their huts,
and were come to beg some victuals for them, the
Spaniards, and two Englishmen, went to see them,
and Friday's father went with them.
When they came into the hut, there they sat all
bound; for when they had brought them on shore,
they bound their hands; and all were naked. First,
there were three men, lusty, comely fellows, well
shaped, straight limbs, about thirty years of age; and
298 ROBINSON cavsoa.
298 ROBINSON cavsoa.
298 ROBINSON cavsoa.
cause Friday’s father to go in, and see if he knew
any of them: and if he understood their speech.
The old man looked seriously atthem, but he knew
none of them, neither could an of them understand
a word he said, except one of t e women. This was
enough to satisfy them that the men into whose hands
they had fallen abhor-red eating either men or women,
and that they might be sure they would not get killed.
As soon as the were assured of this, they discovered
such joy, and y such awkward ways, as is hard to
describe ; for it seems they were of several nations.
The woman who was the interpreter, was bid to
ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to
Work for the men who had brought them away to
save their lives. At which the began to dance, and
presently one fell to taking up t is, and another that,
anything that lay next, to carry, to show they were
wi ling to work. The governor, who found that
women among them would be attended with-incon-
venience, and might occasion strife, erhaps blood,
asked the three men what they inten ed to do with
these women, whether to use them as servants or
women. One of the Englishmen answered that they
would use themas both. The governor said, “ I will
not restrain you from it, you are your own masters as
to that; but I think it but just, for avoiding quarrels,
and I desire it for that reason only, that if any of you
take an of these women as a woman, or a wife, he
shall ta 'e but one, and that, having taken one, none
else shall touch her; for though we cannot marry any
of you, yet it is but reasonable that, while you stay
here, the woman should be maintained b the man
that takes her, and should be his wife, wh e he con-
tinues here, and that none else shall have anything to
do with her." All this appeared so 'ust, that every
nonmson causes. 299,
nonmson causes. 299,
each had a wi e.
But now I come to a scene different from all that
happened before, either to them or to me, and the
original of the story was this :—
nonmson causes. 299,
canoes of savages, prohabl with the design of feeding
upon their slaves. But t at was so familiar to the
Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not con-
cern themselves about it as I did; but knowing that
their only business was to lie concealed, and to give
notice to the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not show themselves, only placing a scout in a
proper place to give notice when the boats went off to
am.
But a disaster spoiled all these measures, and made
it known to the savages that there were inhabitants
there, which was, in the end the desolation of almost
the whole colony. After the canoes were gone off,
the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some had the
curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see
what they had been doing. Here, to their great
surprise, they found three savages left behind, fast
asleep upon the ground; it was supposed they had
been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like
beasts, they were aslee , and would not stir when the
others went, or they ad wandered into the woods,
and did not come back in time to be taken in. The
Spaniards were perfectly at a loss what to do. The
Spaniard governor, as it happened, was with them,
and his advice was asked, but he knew not what to do;
as for slaves, they had enough already, and as to
killing them none of them were inclined to that.
So they resolved to awaken them, and take them
prisoners. The poor fellows were strangely fri htened
when they were seized u n and bound, an afraid
that they should be mur ered and eaten; for those
people think all the world do as they do; but they
were soon made easy as to that, and away they car
ried them. It was well that they did not carry them
300 ROBINSON causos.
was the chief of their count work, such as keeping
goats, planting of the corn, 0., and afterwards they
carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though there was not
much for them to do; and, whether it was by negli-
gence in guarding them, or that the thought the
fellows could not mend themselves, I ow not, but
one of them ran away, and, taking into the woods,
the could never hear of him more.
hey had reason to believe he got home again soon
after, in some other canoes of savages, who came on
shore three or four weeks afterwards, and who, marry-
300 ROBINSON causos.
300 ROBINSON causos.
concluded that if this fellow got safe home among his
comrades, he would certainly give them an account
there were people in the island.
aonmson causos. 301
of them was, that about two months after this, six
canoes of savages, with about eight or ten men in a
canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island,
and landed about an hour after sun-rise at a conveni-
ent place, about a mile from the habitation of the
two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept. As the Spaniard governor said, “Had they
been all there, the damage would not have been so
much, for not a man of them would have escaped."
aonmson causos. 301
aonmson causos. 301
them about a league off, so that it was about an hour
before they landed ; and as they landed about a mile
from their huts, it was some time before they could
come at them.
Having reason to believe the were betrayed, the
aonmson causos. 301
and cause two of the three men whom they brought
with the woman who proved very faithful to them,
to lead them with their two wives, and whatever they
could carry away with them, to their retired place in
the woods, and there to bind the two fellows, hand
and foot, till they heard farther.
When the poor frighted men had secured their
wives and goods, they sent the other slave they had
of the three who came with the women, away to the
Spaniards to give the alarm, and desire speedy help:
and, in the meantime, the took their arms, and their
ammunition, and retreate towards where their wives
were sent, kee ing at a distance, yet so that they
might see whic way the savages took. They had
not gone far, but from a rising ground, the could see
their enemies come on directly to their habitatio
and, in a moment more, could see their huts an
aonmson causos. 301
a M. r
302 nonnwson causes.
till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread
themselves all over the place, rummaging every place
in search for prey ; and for the people, of whom it
now plainly appeared they had intelligence.
The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking them-
selves not secure where they stood, because, as it
was likely some of the wild people might come that
way, so they might come too many together, they re-
treated about a half a mile further, believing that the
farther they strolled the fewer would be together. The
next halt was at the entrance into a very thickgrown
part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree
stood, which was hollow, and vastly large ; and in
this tree they both took their standing, to see there
what might offer.
They had not stood there long, before two of the
savages ap eared running directly that way; and, a
little way arther, they spied three more coming after
302 nonnwson causes.
way, besides which they saw seven or eight more at a
distance, running another way; for they ran every
way, like sportsmen beating for their game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whe-
302 nonnwson causes.
a short debate with themselves, they considered, that
if the savages ranged the country thus, before help
302 nonnwson causes.
and then all would be lost, so they resolved to stand
them there; and if there were too many to deal with,
then they would go up to the top of the tree, to defend
302 nonnwson causes.
302 nonnwson causes.
302 nonnwson causes.
302 nonnwson causes.
302 nonnwson causes.
302 nonnwson causes.
by, unless they shou d spy them in the tree, and come
nonmsorz causos. 303
resolution, by turning towards another part of the
nonmsorz causos. 303
tree, as if they knew they were there.
Seeing them come so straight towards them, they
- resolved to take them in a line as the came ; and to
nonmsorz causos. 303
nonmsorz causos. 303
three or four bullets into his piece, and, having a loop-
hole, from a hole in the tree he took a sure aim,
without being seen, waiting till they were within
about thirty yards from the tree. As the savages came
on, they plainly saw that one of the three was the
runaway savage that had escaped from them; they
knew him distinctly, and resolved that, if ossible, he
should not escape ; so the other stood rea y with his
nonmsorz causos. 303
should be sure to have a second.
nonmsorz causos. 303
aim; for, as the savages kept near one another, a little
nonmsorz causos. 303
The foremost was killed outright, being shot in the
head ; the second, the runaway Indian, was shot
through the body and fell, but was not quite dead;
and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder,
perhaps by the same ball that went through the bod
of the second, and being dreadfully frightened, thong
not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, screaming
and yelling in a most hideous manner.
nonmsorz causos. 303
the noise than sensible of their danger, stood still at
nonmsorz causos. 303
bigger than it really was; the echoes rattling from
one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts
screaming, and making every sort of noise, just as it
nonmsorz causos. 303
they, not knowing what the matter was, came on un—
concerned to that place where their companions lay in
a very miserable condition. And here the poor ignorant
creatures not sensible that they were within reach of
the same mischief, stood over the wounded men. Our
304 nonussos causoa.
and, singling out by agreement which to shoot at,
they shot together, and killed, or wounded four of_
304 nonussos causoa.
fell with the rest: so that our men, seeing them all
fall together, thought they had killed them all.
This belief made our two men come boldly out from
the tree before they had charged their guns again,
which was a wrong step ; and they were surprised when
they came to the place and found four of the men
alive, two of them very little hurt, and one not at
all. This obliged them to fall upon them with the
304 nonussos causoa.
the runawa savage, the muse of all the mischief,
and of snot er that was hurt in his knee. Then the
man that was not hurt came and kneeled down to
them and made piteous moans by gestures and signs,
for his life, but could not say one word to them that
the could understand.
owr‘ver, they signed to him to sit down at the foot
of a tree, and one of the Englishmen with a iece of
rope-twine which he had in his pocket, tied is feet
fast together, and his hands behind him, and there
they left him. ,
They now resolved to go to the place where their
wives were, to see if all was well there; there they
found the savages had been in the wood, and near the
lace, but had not found it; for it was inaccessible,
y the trees standing so thick, unless the person seek-
ing it had been directed by those that knew it. They
found ev thing safe, on] the women in a terrible
fright. hile here, the d the comfort of seven
of the S anierds coming their assistance; the other
ten, wit their servants, and Friday’s father, were
gone in a body to defend the bower, and the corn and
cattle kept there, in case the savages. should have
rowed over to that art of the country, but they did
not s read so far. ith the Spaniards came one of
the t ree savages, their prisoners formerl , and also
the savage whom the Englishmen had le bound at
the tree; for it seems they came that way, saw the
slaughter of the seven men, unbound the eighth, and
brought him along with them, where, however, they
were obliged to bind him again. They then, with
great caution, went forward towards their ruined
plantation. But coming in sight of the sea shore,
they saw plainly the savages all embarking in their
canoes, in order to be gone.
The prisoners now began to be a burden to them,
and they were so afraid of their escaping, that they
once thought to kill them for their own preservation.
But the Spaniard governor would not consent to it,
but ordered them to be sent to my old cave in the val-
ley, with two Spaniards to guard them, and give them
food, and they were bound hand and foot for that night.
The poor Englishmen, being now twice ruined, and
all their improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed
to help them to rebuild. and give them needful sup-
plies. Their three countrymen, who were not noted
for the least inclination to any good, yet, as soon as
they heard of it (for they living remote eastward,
knew nothing of the matter till all was over,) came
and offered their help, and did very friendl work, for
Several days, to restore their habitations, c., and in.
a little time, they were set upon their legs again.
nonrusor: on‘nsos. 305
heard any more of the savages, and our men hoped that
they had not forgot their former bad luck, w en, on
a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable
nonrusor: on‘nsos. 305
'with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords,
&o., and they brought such numbers with them, that
it put all our people into the utmost consternation.
'r
As they came on shore in the evening, at the east
side of the island, our men that night consulted what
to do; and knowing that their being concealed was
their safety before, and would be much more so now,
when the number of their enemies was so great; they
therefore resolved, to take down the huts built for the
two Englishmen, and drive their goats to the old cave,
because they supposed the savages would go directly
thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game
over again.
They then drove away all the goats from the old
bower, which belonged to the Spaniards; and left as
little appearance of inhabitants any where as possible ;
and the next morning early they posted themselves,
with all their force, at the plantation of the two men,
waiting for their coming. The invaders, leaving their
canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging
along the shore directly towards the place, to the
306 ROBINSON CRUSOB-
was but small, being but twenty-nine, slaves and all;
but that which was worse, they had not arms for all.
To their slaves they did not give either musket or fu-
sil, but a halbert, or long statf, like a quarter-staff,
with a great spike of iron fastened to each end, and
by his side a hatchet; also every one of our men had
hatchets. Two of the women could not be prevailed
306 ROBINSON CRUSOB-
had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken.
306 ROBINSON CRUSOB-
Indians fought with one another ; and the women had
hatchets too.
The governor commanded the whole : and Will
Atkins, who was a most daring, bold fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like
lions, and our men had no advantage in their situation;
only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful
fellow, with six men, was planted behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders
nosmsou causos. 307
nosmsou causos. 307
his retreat as nimbly as he could, round a part of the
wood, and so come in behind the S aniards where
they stood, having a thicket of trees :11 before them.
\Vhen the savages came on. they ran straggling
nosmsou causos. 307
of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come on
in a very thick throng, he ordered three of his men
nosmsou causos. 307
bullets a-piece, about as big as large pistol bullets.
How many they killed or wounded, they knew not,
but the consternation was inexpressible among the
savages, to hear such a dreadful noise, and see their
men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did
it; when, in' the middle of their fright, Will Atkins,
nosmsou causos. 307
nosmsou causos. 307
again gave them a third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired as soon as
nosmsou causos. 307
ha the rest of the body been at hand, to have cured
in their shot continually, the savages ha been
nosmsou causos. 307
from this, viz. that they were killed by the gods witn
lightning and thunder and could see nobody that
hurt them; but iVill Atkins staying to load again,
they discovered the cheat. Some of the savages at a
distance, spying them, came upon them behind, and
nosmsou causos. 307
times, and killed above tWenty, retiring as fast as they
could, yet they wounded Atkins, and killed one of
his fellow Englishmen with their arrows, and after-
wards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who
came with the women: this slave was a most gallant
nosmsou causos. 307
own hand, having no weapon but an armed stave,
and a hatchet. The men being thus hard laid at,
Atkins wounded, and two other men killed. retreated
to a rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards,
303 - ROBINSON causes.
for their number was so great, and they were so des-
303 - ROBINSON causes.
and more wounded, yet they came on fearless of danger,
and shot their arrows like a cloud ; and their woun-
ded men, who were not quite disabled, made outrageous
by their wounds, fought like madmen.
When the men retreated. they left the Spaniard
and Englishmen that were killed behind them, and
the savages, when they came up to them, broke their
arms, legs, and heads. with their clubs, like true
303 - ROBINSON causes.
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in
a kind of ring, which is, it seems, their custom, and
shouted twice, in token of their victory.
The governor having drawn his little body together
upon rising ground, Atkins, though wounded would
have had him march, and charge them altogether, at
once. But he replied, “ Seignior Atkins, you see how
303 - ROBINSON causes.
303 - ROBINSON causes.
wounds, and faint with the loss of blood, and so we
shall have the fewer to engage.” The advice was
good, but Will Atkins replied merrily, “That’s true,
seignior, and so shall I too, and that’s the reason I
would go on while I am warm.”—-“ Well, Seignior
Atkins,” says the Spaniard, “you have behaved gal-
303 - ROBINSON causes.
you cannot come on; but I think it best to stay till
morning." So they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they
found the savages in great disorder about their dead
and wounded. and a great noise'where they lay, they
resolved to fall upon them in the night, especially if
they could give them but one volley before they were
discovered. This they had a fair opportunity to do;
for one of the two Englishmen, in whose quarter the
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
the sea-side, westward, and, turning south, they
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that,
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
'among them, and did dreadful. execution upon them.
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
shot in such a quantity, that many were killed and
Wounded, and they were not able to see who hurt
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
The Spaniards charged again with the utmost ex-
pedition, and then divided themselves into three bodies,
and resolved to fall in among them altogether. They
had in each body eight persons ; that is to say, twenty-
four, whereof were twenty-two men, and the two
Women, who fought desperately.
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
and so of the halberts and staves. T ey would have
had the women keep back, but they said they were re-
solved to die with their husbands. Having thus
formed their little army, they marched out from the
trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting
and hallooing as loud as they could. The savages
stood all together, but were in the utmost confusion,
hearing the noise of our men shouting from three
quarters together. They would have fought if they
had seen us, and as soon as we came near enough to
be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday
was wounded though not dangerously. But our men
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
them three ways; and then fell in with the butt-ends
of their muskets, their swords. staves, and hatchets,
and laid about them so well, that they set up a dismal
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
ROBINSON cnusoz. 309
about one hundred and eighty of them; the rest, being
frightened out of their wits7 ran into the woods, and
over the hills, as fast as they could; and as our men

did not care to pursue them, they got altogether to
the sea-side, where their canoes lay. But their disas-
ter was not ended yet; for it blew a terrible storm
from the seaward, so that they could not put off; nay,
the storm continuing all night, when the tide came
up, their canoes were driven by the surge so high upon
310 nonrnsox causes.
and some were dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another. Our men, though glad of their
victory, got little rest that night. In the morning
having refreshed themselves, they marched to that
310 nonrnsox causes.
what posture they were in. When they came within
two musket-shot of them, the Spaniard governor or-
310 nonrnsox causes.
them : that he might know what to expect; viz.
310 nonrnsox causes.
heartily beaten as to be dispirited, and so he might
manage accordingly. This stratagem took; for when
310 nonrnsox causes.
the second, they started up on their feet, in the great-
est consternation, and, as our men advanced swiftly
towards them, they all ran screaming and yelling
awa .
vd'iu Atkins, who, notwithstanding his wound, kept
always with them, proved the best counsellor in this
case; his advice was, to take the advantage that of-
fered, and clap in between them and their boats, and
so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island. He showed the necessity
of it so plainly, that they all came into it; and they
went to work immediately with the boats, and, get-
ting some dry wood, they tried to set some of them
310 nonrnsox causes.
310 nonrnsox causes.
310 nonrnsox causes.
boats. When the Indians saw it, some of them ran
out of the woods, and coming as near as they could


to our men, kneeled down, and cried, “ 0a! 0a! wa-
ramokoa!“ and otlf'er words, which meant that they
begged to have their boats spared, and they would be
gone, and never come again. But our men believed
that they had no way to preserve themselves, and
their colony, than to prevent any of these people from
ever going home again, for if ever one of them got
back into their country to tell the story, the col-
ony was undone; so they fell to work with their ca-
noes, and destroyed them eve one, that the storm
had not destroyed before. At t e sight of which the
savages raised a. hideous cry in the woods; after
which they ran about the island like distracted men,
ROBINSON cnusos. 311
them.
Nor did the Spaniards with all their prudence, con-
sider, that while the made those people thus des-
perate, they ought to liave kept good guard upon their
plantations; for though it is true, they had driven
ROBINSON cnusos. 311
their main retreat, yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it to pieces, and all the fences
and planting about it: trod all the corn under foot,
tore up the vines, the grapes being then almost ripe,
and did our men incstimable damage.
The distress they were reduced to for want of food
was great and deplorable: and many were afterwards
found dead in the woods, merely starved to death.
\Vhen our men founl this, pity moved them, especi-
ally the governor, who was the most gentlemanly, gen-
erous-minded man that ever I met with. And be pro-
posed to take one of them alive, and bring him to un-
derstand what they meant, so as to act as interpreter,
and to go among them to see if they could not be
brought to some conditions, that might save their
lives, and do us no spoil.
It was some time before one could be taken ; but,
being weak and half starved, one of them was at last
surprised, and made a prisoner. He was sullen at
312 aonrusou causes.
himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and no
312 aonrusou causes.
came to himself. They brought old Friday to talk
with him, and he told him how kind the others would
be to them all; that they would not only save their
lives, but give them a part of the island to live in, pro-
vided they would keep in their own bounds, and not
come beyond them to injure or prejudice others; and
that they should have corn given them, to plant and
make their bread, and bread given them for their pre-
sent subsistence; and old Friday bade the fellow g0
and talk with the rest of his countrymen, assuring
them, that if they did not agree immediately the
should be all destroyed. The poor wretches humble ,
and reduced to about thirty-seven, closed with the
312 aonrusou causes.
00 given them: upon which twelve S aniards, and
two Englishmen, well armed, and three ndian slaves,
and old Friday, marched to the place where they
were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large
guantity of bread, and rice boiled up to cakes, and
ried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they ate the
provisions thankfully, and were the most faithful fel-
ows to their words that could be thought of ; for, ex-
cept when they came to beg victuals and directions,
they never came out of their bounds; and there they
lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them.
One thing was very remarkable, viz. teaching them
to make wicker-work, or baskets, they soon outdid
their masters, for they made most ingenious things
in wicker-work, particularly baskets, sieves, bird-
cages, cupboards, chairs, stools, couches, beds, and
man other things, being very ingenious at such work.
r this, the colony enjoyed perfect tranquillity
with respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them,
which was about two years. I now entered into a
serious discourse with the Spaniard governor, about
their stay in the island; for, as I was not come to
carry any of them off, so it would not be just to carry
013' some and leave others, who, perhaps, would be
unwilling to stay, if their strength was diminished.
I told them, 1 came to establish them there, not to
remove them; and I had brought with me relief of
sundry kinds for them; that I had been at a great
charge to supply them with all things necessary for
their convenience and defence; and that I had par-
ticular persons with me, to increase their number, and
by the necessary employments which they were bred
nonmsoN CRU.SOE. 313
which, at resent, the were to seek.
Before delivered t e stores I had brought, I asked
them, one by one, if they had entirely forgot and
buried their animosities, and would shake hands with
one another, and engage in a strict friendship and
union of interest, so that there might be no more mis-
understandings or 'ealousies. Will Atkins, with great
frankness and good humour, said they had met with
nonmsoN CRU.SOE. 313
plenty to make them all friends; that he would live
and ie with them, and was so far from designing any
thing against the Spaniards, that, he owned they had
done nothing to him but what his own mad hu-
mour made necessary, and what he would have done
and perhaps worse, in their case; and that he would
ask their pardon if I desired it, for the brutish things
he had done to them: and was very willing to live on
terms of friendship and union with them: and would
do any thing that lay in his power to convince them
of it. And as for going to England, he cared not if
he did not go thither these twenty years.
nonmsoN CRU.SOE. 313
excluded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for
their ill conduct; and they all appealed to me for the
necessity the were under to do so. But that Will
Atkins had ehaved himself so bravely in the late
great fight, and on several occasions since, and had
showed himself so faithful to, and concerned for, the
general interest of them all, that they had forgotten
all that was past, and thought he merited as much to
be trusted With arms, and supplied with necessaries,
as any of them. And as they had entire confidence in
him and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged
814 aosrnsox causes.
me, that they would never have any interest separate
from one another.
Upon these frank declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed the next day to dine all together; and we
made a splendid feast. I caused the ship’s cook and
his mate to come on shore to dress our dinner. We
brought on shore six pieces of beef, and four pieces
of pork, out of the ship’s provision, with our punch-
814 aosrnsox causes.
bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English
beer; which the Spaniards and Englishmen had
not tasted for many years; and they were very glad
of them. -
814 aosrnsox causes.
which the cooks roasted, and three of them were sent,
covered up close on board the ship, to the seamen, that
they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we
did with their salt meat from on board.
After this feast, I brought out my cargo of goods,
wherein, that there might be no dispute about di-
814 aosrnsox causes.
all; and desired that they might all take an equal
quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is
to say, equal when made up. I distributed linen suf-
814 aosrnsox causes.
request, afterwards made them up to six. These
were very comfortable to them, for they had long since
forgot the use of them, or what it was to wear them.
I allotted the thin English stuffs, to make every one
‘ ROBINSON canson. 315
son, cool and loose. I also gave them pumps, shoes,
stockings, hats, &c. I cannot express what pleasure,
what satisfaction, sat upon the countenances of all
these poor men, when they saw the care I had taken
of them, and how well I had furnished them.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and
gave every man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a
rake, for we had no harrows or ploughs; and to every
separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad axe, and
a saw, appointing that as any were broken or worn
out, they should be supplied out of the general stores
I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chis-
els, knives, scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron
work, they had as they required. For the use of the
smith, I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.
My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to profusion, that they could
not but rejoice at them.
I carried on shore the young man, whose mother
had died from want, and the maid also. She was a
sober, well educated, religious young woman, and be-
‘ ROBINSON canson. 315
good word. After a while, seeing things so well or-
‘ ROBINSON canson. 315
land, and considering that they had neither business
nor acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for
taking so long a vo age, both of them came to me,
and desired I WOIllg' give them leave to remain on the
island. I agreed to it readily; and the had a little
plot of ground allotted to them, where they had tents
or houses, set up.
I now presented to them the people I had brought
with me, viz. the two carpenters and the tailor, also
th » smith and my other man, whom I called “Jack
or all trades," who was almost as good as twenty men,
for he was a very ingenious fellow.
The French ecclesiastic came to me one morning,
and told me with a grave countenance, that he had
for two or three days, desired an o portunity of some
discourse with me, which he hope would not be dis-
pleasing to me, because he thought it might corres-
pond with my general design, which was the pros-
perity of my new colony, and might ut it more in
the way of God’s blessing. I asked him what it was
that he wished to speak about. “ Why, sir, it is
about your poor savages yonder, who are your con-
quered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, that is, or ought
to be, received among all Christians, that Christian
knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible
means, and on all ossible occasions. It is on this
principle that our 0 urch sends missionaries into Per-
sia, India, and China, and that our clergy willingly
engage in the most hazardous voyages, and the most
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians,
to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and
bring them over to embrace the Christian faith. Now,
sir, you have such an opportunity here, to have seven-
and-thirty poor savages brought from idolatry to a
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that
I wonder how you can pass such an occasion of doing
gpod, which is worth the expense of a man's whole
1 e.’
“Well, sir," said I, “it is a valuable thing to be
an instrument in God’s hand, to convert seven-and— _
thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ. But as
on are an eoclesiastic, and devoted to that work, it
elongs your profession; then why do you not under-
take it? U on this he faced about just before me, as
we were wal ing, and made a ve low bow. “ I most
heartily thank God and you, sir, ’ says he, “for giv-
ing me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if
ou desire me to undertake it, I will most readily do
it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards
316 ROBINSON causes. I
He appeared in a kind of rapture as he said this ,
and after I had considered it awhile, I asked him if
he was in earnest to serve those poor people, to be
locked up in an Implanted island, erhaps, for life,
and at last might not know whether e shouldbe able
to do them any good or not. “ Pray, sir,” said he,
“what do you think I consented to go in our shi
to the East Indies for F” “Nay,” said , “that
know not, unless it was to preach to the Indians."
“ Doubtless it was,” said he, “ and do you think, if .I
can convert these seven-and-thirty men, it is not
worth my time, though I should never be fetched off
nonmsox causon. 317
worth to save so many souls, than the life of twenty
more of the same profession ‘8” “Yes sir," said he,
“ I would give Christ thanks all my days, if I could
be made the happy instrument of saving the souls of
these poor men, though I was never to see my native
country again. “ But sinoe you will honour me,”
said he, “ with putting me into this work, I have one
humble petition to you,” said he, “ besides.” “ “That
is that? said I. “Why,” said he, “it is that you
will leave your man Friday with me to be my inter-
preter to them, and to assist me, for without some
clp, I cannot speak to them or the to me ”
I was troubled at his requesting riday, because I
could not think of parting with him, for many rea-
sons. He had been faithful, kind, and affectionate to
me, to the last degree; and as I had bred Friday
up to be a Protestant, and this priest being a Catho-
lic, I thought it might spoil all his religious rinci-
les. But a sudden thought relieved me: I to d him
could not say that I was willing to part with him ;
though a work that to him was of more value than
his life, ought to be of much more value than the
keeping or parting with a servant; but I was per-
suaded that Friday would not consent to pm with
me; and to force him to it, without his consent, would
ROBINSON CRUBOE.
be manifest injustice, because I had promised I would
never put him away, and he had promised that he
would never leave me, unless I put him away.
He seemed much concerned at this, for he did not
understand one word of their language, nor they one
word of his. To remove this ditliculty, I told him
Friday’s father had learned Spanish, which he also
understood, and he should be his interpreter; so he
'318
to convert them; but Providence gave another and
very happy turn to all this.
When we came to the Englishmen, I sent for them
all together, and after some account given them of
what I had done for than], viz. what necessary things
I had provided for them, which they were very thank-
ful for, I began to talk to them of the life they led,
and asked them with what conscience they could take
women, and lie with them, call them their wives, and
have children by them, and not be married lawfully
to them. They all gave me the answer I expected,
viz. that there was nobody to marry them; that they
all agreed before the governor to take, keep, and own.
them as their wives; and they thought, as things
stood with them, they were as legally married as if
married by a. person, and with all the formalities in
the world.
And the
spoke for
told me, especially Will Atkins, who
e rest, that they loved their wives as well
as if they had been born in their native country, and‘
would not leave them on any account whatever; and
the believed their wives were as virtuous and as
mo est, and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much
for them and for their children, as any women could
possibly do. And \Vill Atkins added. ii'any man would
ca him home to England, and make him a captain of
the est man‘of-war in the navy. he would not go
with him, without his wife and children, and if there
was a clergyman in the ship, he Would be married to
v
her with all his heart. I told him I had a clergyman
with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of
it, and talk with the rest. He said as to himself, he
need not consider of it all, for he was reudy to do it,
and was glad I had a minister with me, and he thought
they would all be willihg also. ‘
Before I went from their quarter, they all came and
told me that they were glad to hear I had a. clergy-
man in m company, and they were very willing to
be formal y married as soon as I pleased, for they
were not willing to part from their wives, and that
they meant nothing but honour when the chose
them. So I appointed them to meet me t 0 next
morning, and m the mean time, to let their wives
know the meaning of the marriage law, that it was
not onlv to revent scandal, but also to oblige them
nosnzson causes. 319
women easil saw the meaning of the thing. and were
nosnzson causes. 319
out my clergyman; and though he had not on amin-
ister‘s gown, after the manner of England, vet hav-
ing a black vest, with a sash round it, he di not look
unlike a. minister; and as for his language, I was in-
terpretcr.
When they arrived, he married three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. Af-
ter this, my clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious
to know where Atkins was, and says he, “ Let us walk
out of your labyrinth here, and look.” So we went,
and I took him a way which I only knew, and where
the trees were so thick set, as that it was not easy to
see through the thicket of lem es; when coming to
the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny,
savage wife, sitting under the shade of a bush, very
eager in discourse. I stopped short till my clergyman
conic up to me, and then we stood and looked at them
a good while.
He was very earnest with her, pointing up to the
sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, then down
to the earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then
to her, then to the woods, and trees. “ Now,” says
the clergyman, “ mark him ; now he is telling her
that our God has made him, and her, and the hea-
vens, the earth, &c.”—“ I believe he is," said I.
Then we saw him start n on his feet, fell upon his
knees, and lift up both is hands. After kneeling
halfaminute, he sat down by his wife, and talked
to her again. The woman was very attentive, but
whether she said any thing or no, it was impossible
for us to tell.
But we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing
them, so we resolved to see an end of this conversa-
tion. He sat down again, close by her, and talked
again very earnestly to her, and two or three times
embraced her passionately; another time we saw him
wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind
of transport very unusual; at last we saw him on a
sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help
her up, when immediately leading her a etc or two,
they 0th kneeled down, and continued so ghout two
minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cried out
aloud, “ Saint Paul ! Saint Paul ! behold he prayethl”
I was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore I re-
strained him, that we might see the end of the scene,
which to me, was the most affecting, and yet the most
agreeable, that ever I saw in my life. Well, he strove
with himself, but was in such raptures of joy that the
poor heathen had become a Christian, that he wept
several times; then throwing up his hands, and cros-
sing his breast, said over several things ejaculatory,
giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of
the success of our endeavours. When they were risen
from their knees, he stood talking eagerly to her;
and we observed by her motions she was greatly af-
feeted with what he said, and by such other postures
as usually express the greatest seriousness and atten-
tion. This continued about ten minutes, and then
they went away.
So we went back our own way; and we found them
waiting to be called in.- Observing this, I asked my
clergyman if we should discover to him that we had
seen him under the bush, or no; and it was his opin-
nonrnson cnusoni 321
and hear what he should say to us. So I began with
him thus :—
“ ‘Vill Atkins,” said I, “ prithee what educatien had
you? ‘Vhat was your father ?" IV. A.—A better
man than ever'I shall be. Sir, my father was a cler-
gyman. R. (ll—What educationdid he give you?
W. A.—He would have taught me well, sir, but I
despised all education, instruction, or correction like
a beast as I was. R. 0'.—It is true, Solomon says,
“ He that despiseth a reproof is brutish.” IV. A .—
Aye, sir, I was brutish indeed; I murdered my father;
for God’s sake, sir, talk no more about that, sir; I
murdered my poor father! Priest. Ha! a murderer!
Here the priest started (for I interpreted every
word as he spoke it,) and looked pale; it seems he
believed that Will had really killed his own father?
R. G—No, no, sir; I do not understand him so.
Will Atkins, explain yourself: you did not kill your
father, did you, with your own hands? W. A.—No,
sir; I did not cut his throat, but I cut the thread of
all his comforts, and shortened his days. I broke his
heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return for
the most tender, affectionate treatment that ever fa-
ther gave, or child could receive. 11?. G—XVell, I
did not ask you about your father to extort this con-
fession‘: I pray to God to give you repentance for it,
and forgive you all your sins ; but I asked you because
I see that though you had not much learning, yet
you are not so ignorant as some are in things that are
U
good ; that you have known more of religion than you
have practised. 7V. A.—'l‘hough you, sir, did not
extort the confession about my father, conscience does;
and whenever we come to look upon our lives, the
322 ROB’INSON' causes.
touch us ; the wounds they make lie deepest, and their
weight the heaviest of all the sins we commit. .R. C'.
—-You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins,
I cannot hear it. 7V. A.—You bear it, master! I
dare say you know nothing of it. R. C’.-—Yes, At-
kins, every shore, every hill, every tree in the island,
is witness to the anguish of my soul, for my ingrati-
tude and base usage of a good father : I murdered in
father as well as you, Will Atkins: but I thin
anyl repentance is short of your‘s too, by a great
ea .
I would have said more if I could have restrained
my passions: but I thought this poor man’s repent-
ance was so much more sincere than mine, that I
was going to leave off the discourse, and retire; for I
was surprised with what he said, and thought that in-
stead of my going about to instruct him, the man was
made a teacher to me, in a most unexpected. manner.
I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was
greatly affected, and said, “Did I not say, sir, that
when this man was converted, he would preach to us
all! I tell you, sir, if this one man be made a true
penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make
christians of all in the island.
“But, Will,” said I, “ how comes the sense of this
‘matter to touch you just now P W'. A.—Sir, you have
set me about a work that has struck a. dart through
In very soul. I have been talking about God and
re igion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to
make a christian of her, and she has preached such a
sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.
12. (Ii—Did you tell her what marriage was i’ . .
“Aye, aye, there began all our dialogue. I asked
__.a__ _._-’__- _
~
___--

her if she would be married to me our way. She ask-
ed me what way that was, I told her that marriage
was appointed by God: and we had a strange talk
together, as ever man and wife had.
N. B.—This dialogue as I took it down in writing,
just after he told it me, was as follows :—
Wife.-App0inted by your God! why, have you a God
in your country? W. A.—Yes, my dear; God is in every
country. Wife-No you God in my country: my coun-
try have the great old Benamuckee god. W. A.—I am
nonrnsor: causes. 323
and made the heaven and the earth, and all that in them
is. Wife—No makee de earth; no makee my country.
Will laughed at her expression of God not making her
country. Wife—No laugh : why laugh me? This noting
to laugh. He was justly reproved by his wife, for she
nonrnsor: causes. 323
That’s true indeed: I will not laugh at you any more.
Wife—Why, you say you God make all! W. A.--Yes,
our God made the whole world, and you, and me, and all
things ; he is the only true God ; there is no God but he.
He lives for ever in heaven. Wife.--What, have you de
great God in your country, you no know him ! N 0 say 0
to him? No do good ting for him? That no possible.
W. A.-—It is true enough for all that. We live as if there
was no God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth.
Wife.--But why God let you do so? Why he no makee
you good live? W. A.—It is all our own fault. Wife.—
But you say me, he is great, much great, have much great
power; can makee kill when he will ; why he no makee
kill when you no serve him I No say 0 to him? No be
good mans? W. A.—'I'hat is true; he might strike me
dead, and I ought to expect it ; for I have been a wicked
wretch, that is true; but God is merciful, and does not
deal with us as we deserve. Wife.—How me tink you
have great much God up there (she points up to heaven,)
and yet no do well, no do good ting ! Can he tell? Sure
he no tell what you do? W. A.—Yes. yes, he knows and
sees all things; he hears us speak, sees what we do, knows
what we think, though we do not speak. Wife—What !
he no hear you swear, curse, speak the great damn?
nonrnsor: causes. 323
the muchee great power’Btrong? W. A.—He is merciful;
that is all we can say for it; and this proves him to be
the true God: he is God and not man ; and therefore we
are not consumed.
Here Will Atkins told us, he was struck with hor-
ror to think how he could tell his wife so clearly that
God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts of
i the heart, and all that we do; and yet that he had
dared to do all the vile things he had done.
Wife—Merciful! What you call dat? W. A.-—He is
our Father and Maker; and he pities and spares us.
It'ifc.——So then he never makee kill, never angry when
you do wicked; then he no good himself, or no great'
324 ROBINSON onuson.
324 ROBINSON onuson.
324 ROBINSON onuson.
anger to destroy sinners, and make examples. Many are
cut off in their sins. Wife—But no makee kill you yet;
then he tell you, may be, that he no makce you kill, so
on makee de bargain with him ; you do bad ting, he not
e angry at you, when he be angry at other mans?
W. A.—N 0, indeed: my sins are all presumptions upon
324 ROBINSON onuson.
stroyed me, as he had done other men. Wi e.—Well, and
yet no kill, no makec you dead! What you say to him
for that? You no tell him, tankce for all that too?
W. A.—I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that is true.
Wife. --Why he no makee you much good better? You
say he makec you. W. A.—IIe made me as he made all
the world ; it is I have deformed myself, and abused his
goodness, and have made myself an abominable wretch.
Wife—I wish you makcc God know me ; I no makee him
angry; I do no bad wicked ting.
Here \Vill Atkins said his heart sank within him,
to hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught
to know God; and he such a wicked wretch, that he
could not say one word to her about God, but what
the reproach of his own carriage would make most
irrationable to her to believe; nay, that already she
had told him that she could not believe in God, be-
cause he that was so wicked, was not destroyed.
W. A.— (y dear, you mean you wish I could teach you
to know Go , not God to KDOW you, for he knows you al-

,-__ “m- _ _

ready, and every thought in your heart. Wife.-Why
then he know what I say to you now; he know me wish
to know him. How shall me know who makee me?
W. A.—Poor creature, he must teach thee. I cannot teach
thee. I’ll pray to him to teach thee to know him, and to
forgive me, that am unworthy to teach thee.
The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desir-
ing him to make her know God, and her wishing to
know him, that he said he fell down on his knees
before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind
with the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and to
pardon his sms, and accept of his being the unworthy
instrument of instructing her in the principles of re-
ligion.
“Va—What you put down the knee for? What you
hold up the hand for? What you say? Who you speak
to? What is all that? W. A.—M y dear,‘ I bow my knees
in token of my submission to him that made me. I said
“ O,” to him, as you call it ; and as you say your old men
do to their idol Benamuckee, that is, I prayed to him.
Wife.—What you say 0 to him for? W. A.—-I prayed to
him to open your eyes and your understanding, that you
may know him, and be accepted by him. Wife—Can he
do that too? W. A.—Yes, he can : he can do all things.
Wife.—But he no hear what you say? W. A.—Yes, he
has bid us pray to him, and promised to hear us. Wife.
-——Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid you?
What! you hear him speak? W. A.-—No, I do not hear
him speak; but he has revealed himself many ways to
us.
Here he was at a loss to make her understand that
God has revealed himself to us by his word, and what
his word was ; but, at last, he said thus :—
W. A.—God spake to some good men, in former days
from heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired good
men by his Spirit, and they have written all his laws in
nonrnsox caus‘on. 3‘25
book? W. A.—Alas! poor creature, I have not got this
book I but I hope I shall some time get it, and help you
to read it.
W'ife.-—-But how you makee me know that God teachee
them to write that book? W. A.—By the same rule that
we know him to be God. Wife—What rule, what way
you know? W. A.—Because he teaches and commands
nothing but what is good, and holy; and tends to make
us perfectly good, and happy; and because he commands
us to avoid all that is wicked, in itself, or in its conse-
quences. W [fa—That me would understand, that me
Iain see; if he reward all good thing, punish all wicked
thing, he teaches all good thing, forbid all wicked thing ;
he makes all thing, he give all thing ; he hear me when I
say 0 to him, as you go dojust now; he makes me good, if
I wish be good ; he spare me, no makes kill me, when I
no be good. All this you say he do; yes, he be great
God ; me say 0 to him too, with you my dear.
Here the poor man said he could forbear no longer,
but raising her up, made her kneel by him, and he
prayed to God to instruct her in the knowledge of
imself by his Spirit, and that by some good pro-
vidence, she might come to have a Bible, that she
might read it, and be taught to know him. This was
the time that we saw him lift her up by the hand,
and saw him kneel down by her. This was a strange
‘ account, and very affecting to us both,- particularly to
the young clergyman. However,_he turned himself
to me, and told me, that he believed there must be
more to do with the woman than to marry her. I did
not understand him, he said that she ought to be
ba tized.
agreed with him, but when he was pre cling to
326 ROBINSON cunsoa.
with caution, that the man might not perceive he was
of the Roman church, because of other ill consequen-
ces which might attend a difference among us in that
religion which we were instructing the other in. He
said that as he had no consecrated chapel, I should
see he would do it so that I should not know that he
was a Roman Catholic, if I had not known it before.
And so he did; for saying onl some words over to
himself in Latin, be poured a ish full of water upon
the woman’s head, pronouncing in French, “Mary,”
which was the name her husband desired me to give
her. for I was her godfather, &c., and I baptize thee
in the name of the Father, so that none could know
any thing by it what religion he was of.
After the marriage was over, he turned to Will
Atkins, and, very affectionately exhorted him to per-
severe in that good disposition he was in, and to
support his convictions by a resolution to reform his
life; told him it was in vain to say he repented, if he
did not forsake his crimes; represented to him how
God had honoured him with being the instrument of
bringing his wife to the knowledge of the christian
religion ; and that he should be careful he did not
dishonour the grace of God. Thus ended the cere-
mony. It was the most agreeable day that ever I
passed in my whole life.
Having brought the affair of the island to a narrow
compass, I was about to embark, when the young
man of the famished shi ’s company came to me, and
said he understood I ha a clergyman with me, and
that I had caused the Englishmen to be married
to the savages; that he had a match too, which
ROBINSON cnnson. 327
christians, which, he hoped, would not be disagreeable
to me.
I knew the young woman was his mother’s servant,
for there was no other christian woman on the island;
so advised him not to do any thing of that kind rashly,
or because he was in this solitary circumstance. He
smiled, and told me that I was mistaken, for the per-
sons to be married was my Jack of all trades, and his
maid Susan. I was most agreeably surprised at the
match, for I thought it very suitable. The character
of that man I have given already; and the maid was
a very honest, modest, and religious young woman ;
very sensible and agreeable in her person, very handy
and housewifely in any thing before her, an excellent
manager, and fit to be governess to the whole island.
The match being proposed in this manner, we mur-
rind them the same da ; and as I was father at the
altar, as I may say, an gave her awa , so I gave her a
portion, for I appointed her and her usband a hand-
some large space of ground for their plantation.
Being now settled in a kind of commonwealth, and
having much business in hand, it was odd to have
seven-and-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island,
independent and unemployed, for, except providing
328 aosrxsox cavsos.
had no business or property to manage. I proposed,
therefore, to the governor Spaniard that he should go
to them with Friday’s father, and propose to them to
remove, and lant for themselves, or take them into
their several Families as servants, to be maintained
for their labour, but I would not permit them to make
them slaves by force.
They willingly embraced the proposal, and came
cheerfully along with him. So we allotted them land
and plantations, which three or four accepted, but
the rest choose to be emplo ed as servants in the
several families we had settle . And thus my colony
was settled as follows :—-the Spaniards had my origi-
nal habitation, as the capital city, and extended their
plantation along the side of the brook, which made
the creek so often described, as far as my bower, and
as they increased their culture, it went eastward.
The English lived in the north-east art, where \Vill
Atkins and his comrades began, an came on south-
ward, and south-west, towards the back part of the
Spaniards. Each plantation had land to take in, if
needed.
All the west end of the island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the savages should come on shore there,
they might come and go as they pleased. It now
came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to the
clergyman that the work of converting the savages
might perhaps be set on foot in his absence to his
satisfaction; and that now I thought it was put in a

fair way; for, the savages being thus divided among
the ohristians, if they would but eve one do their
part with those which came under air hands, it
might have a very good effect.
“If,” said he, “they will do their art: but how
shall we obtain that of them ?" I tol him we could
call them together, and leave it in charge with them,
or go to them one by one. So we divided it; he to
speak to the Spaniards who were all Papists, and I
to the English who were all Protestants ; and we
recommended it earnestly to them, and to make no
distinction of Papist or Protestant in exhorting the
savages to turn christians; but teach the general
knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour
Jesus Christ; and they promised us that they would
have no dispute, about religion.
When I came to Will Atkins‘ house, I found the
young woman I have mentioned before, and Atkins'
wife, were become intimates, and this prudent reli-
gious young woman had perfected the work Will At-
kins had begun; and though it was not above four
days after what I have related, yet the new-baptized
savage woman was made such a christian as I have
seldom heard of any like her. It came into my mind
that, among all the needful things I had to leave
with them, I had not left a Bible, in which I showed
myself less considering for them than my good friend
the widow was for me, when she sent me the cargo of
one hundred pounds from Lisbon, where she packed
up three Bibles and a Prayer book. I took one of the
Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to Atkins' house,
I found the young woman, and Atkins’ wii'e discours-
ing of religion. “ O, sir,” says Will Atkins, “when
God has sinners to reconcile to himself, he never wants
a messenger. My wife has got a new instructor. I
knew I was incapable of that work; that young
woman has been sent from heaven, she is enough to
convert a whole island of savages." The young
woman blushed, and rose up to go away, but I do,
sired her to sit still. I told her she had a good work
upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless her
in it.
I did not perceive they had any book among them
though I did not ask; but I pulled out my Bible.
“Here,” said I to Atkins, “I have brought ou an assis-
tant, that, perhaps, you had not before. ' The man
was so confounded, that he was not able to speak for
some time. Recovering himself, he took it with both
his hands, and, turning to his wife, “ Here, my dear,"
says he, “ did I not tell you our God, though he lives
above, could hear what we said ? Here is the book I
ru ed for, when you and I kneeled down under the
bush; now God has heard us, and sent it.” And the
man fell into such transports of a passionate joy, that
between the joy of having it, and giving God thanks
for it, the tears ran down his face like a child that
was crying.
The woman was surprised, and began to imagine
that God had sent the book upon her husband’s pe-
tition. It is true, that providentially it was so, and
might be taken in a consequent sense. I turned to
the young woman, and told. her, we did not desire to
330 noamson causes.
understanding of things, and begged her to explain
to her, that God may be said to answer our etitions,
when, in the course of his providence, sue things
are brought to pass, as we petitioned for ; but we do
not expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous man-
ner. and that it is out of mercy that it is not so.
This the young woman did afterwards eil'ectuall .
But the surprise and joy upon Will Atkins is rea y
not to be expressed. Surely no man was ever more
thankful than he was for this Bible ; and, I believe,
never any man was glad of a Bible from a better
330 noamson causes.
creature, desperate, headstrong, outrageous, furious,

and wicked, to a great degree, yet this man is a
standing rule to us all for the well-instructing chil-
dren, viz. that parents should never give over to teach
and instruct, or ever despair of the success of their
endeavours, let the children be ever so obstinate, re-
fractory, or, to appearance, insensible of instruction.
ROBINSON cnvsos. 331
the sloop I had framed, and which I had thought of
setting up among them; for I was afraid if I left it,
some of them might endeavour to make their escape
in it from the island, and thus diminish the strength
of the colony. Neither did I leave the two pieces of
brass cannon that I had on board, or the two quarter-
dcck guns that my nephew took extraordinary; for
ROBINSON cnvsos. 331
war against any that should invade them.
I have now done with the island. I left them all
ROBINSON cnvsos. 331
and went on board my ship again the 5th day of May,
ROBINSON cnvsos. 331
as they were all resolved to stay u on t e island till
I came to remove them, I promise to send some far-
ROBINSON cnvsos. 331
an opportunity ; and particularly I promised to send
them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows.
ROBINSON cnvsos. 331
parting, we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All
Saints, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days,
meeting nothing remarkable in our passage, except on
the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and
the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered.
towards the land with something very black, not
being able to discover what it was, but after some
time. our chief mate, going u to the main shrouds
a little way, and looking at t em with a perspective
glass cried out it was an army. I could not imagine
what he meant by an army, and spoke a little hastil ,
calling the fellow a fool. “Nay, sir,” said he, “ o
332 nosnvsou csusos.
believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, and they are coming towards us,
too, space, and full of men.
I was a little sur rised then, and so was my ne-
phew the captain. bade him bring the ship to an
anchor, as soon as we came to know that we must
engage them. The weather was calm, and they came
towards us, I gave orders to anchor, and furl all
sails. As for the savages, I told them theyhad nothing
332 nosnvsou csusos.
boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and
the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture. This I did that the
men in the boats might be ready, with sheets and
332 nosnvsou csusos.
332 nosnvsou csusos.
In this posture we lay by for them, and they soon
came up with us; but never was such a horrid sight
seen by Christians. My mate was much mistaken in
his calculation of their number, viz. athousand canoes;
the most we could make them, being about a hundred
and twenty-six, and many of them had sixteen or
seventeen men in them, and the least six or seven.
They came very near us, and went about to row round
us : but we called‘to our men in the boats not to let
them come too near them. '
This order brought on an engagement with them,
332 nosnvsou csusos.
canoes came so near our long boat, that our men
beckoned with their hands to them to keep back,
which they understood, and went back ; but, at their
332 nosnvsou csusos.
those boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was
332 nosnvsou csusos.
any means ; but we handed some deal boards into the
boat, and the carpenter set up a fence, to cover them
from their arrows, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards, they came all up in
a body astern of us, and pretty near; but in a little
time more, they rowed somewhat farther out to sea,
till they came directly broadside with us, and then
rowed straight down upon us, till they came so near
that they could hear us speak. Upon this I ordered
all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot more
arrows, and make all our guns ready; but being so
near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out
upon the deck, and call aloud to them in his language
to know what they meant, which he accordingly did.
\Vhether they understood him or not, that I knew
not ; but as soon as he had called to them. six of them
who were in the foremost boat, turned their canoe from
us, and steeping down, showed us their naked back-
sides, just as if in English, they bade us kiss—.
aonmson causes. 323
not; or whether it was done in mere contempt, or as
a signal to the rest ; but immediately Friday cried
out they were going to shoot; and unhap ily for him,
aonmson causes. 323
arrows, and to my inexpressible grief killed poor Fri-
da ', no other man being in their sight. The poor
fel ow was shot with no less than three arrows, and
about three more fell very nigh him; such unlucky
marksmen they were. I was so enraged with the
loss of my old. servant, the companion of all my sor-
aonmson causes. 323
guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with great,
and gave them such a broadside as they never had in
their lives before. They were not above half a cable’s
aonmson causes. 323
aim so well, that three or four of their canoes were
overeat, as we had reason to believe, by one shot
on .
chan neither tell how many we killed, nor how
many we wounded, but such a fright never was seen
among such a. multitude: there were fourteen of
their canoes split, and overset, in all, and the men all
set a swimming; the rest, frightened out of their
wits, scoured away as fast as they could; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life,
an hour after the were gone. In about three hours,
wecould not see above three or four straggling canoes;
nor did we see the rest any more, for a breeze of wind
springing up the same evening, we weighed, and set
sail for the Brazils. '
The risoner we had got was so sullen, that for
some time he would neither eat nor speak, and we
fancied he would pine himself to death. then he
was more tractable, and we had taught him to speak
a little English, he said that they were going with
334 ROBINSON causes.
kings, we asked him how many kings. He said there
334 ROBINSON causes.
two nation. \Ve asked him what made them come up to
us. He said, “ to makes to great wonder look." All
those natives of Africa, when the learn English, al-
ways add two o‘s at the end of t e Words where we
use one, and lace the accent upon them, as “ makee,
takee,” andt e like; and we could not break them
off it.
And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must
take my last leave of him. Poor honest Friday! we
buried him with all the decency and solemnity possi-
334 ROBINSON causes.
334 ROBINSON causes.
for him: and so ended the life of the most grateful,
faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant that
ever man had.
We now went away with a fair wind for the Brazils,
and in about twelve days’ time we made land.
found my old partner alive, and after various con-
gratulations and presents between us, I got him to
engage men to set up the sloop which I had brought
with me from England, for the use of my colony, in


order to send the refreshments to my plantation.
nosmson cnuson. 335
instructions as he could not miss the place; nor did
he miss it, as I had an account from to partner at“-
terwards. One of our seamen, who had een on shore
with me there, offered to go with the sloop, and settle
there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to al-
nosmson cnuson. 335
I granted all he desired, giving him clothes, and tools
for his planting-work, and the savage which we had
taken prisoner, to be his slave.
nosmson cnuson. 335
told me there was a. very honest fellow, a Brazil plan-
ter, of his acquaintance, who had fallen into the dis-
pleasure of the church. He believed he was a here-
tic in his heart; and that he had been obliged to con-
ceal himself for fear of the Inquisition. He told me
that this man would be very glad of an opportunit
to escape, with his wife and two daughters, and if ¥
would let them go to my island, and allot them a plan-
tation, he would give them a little stock to begin
nosmson cnuson. 335
his effects and estate, and he had nothing left but a.
little household stuif, and two slaves.
I granted this presently, and joined my English-
man with them; and we concealed the man, his wife
and daughters, on board the ship, till the sloop put
out to sea; and then (having put all their goods on
board some time before) we put them on board the
sloop, after she got out of the bay.
ong the supplies sent to m tenants in the
nosmson cnuson. 335
calves, twenty-two hogs, three sows big with pig, two
mares, and a stone-horse. I also sent materials for
planting sugar canes, with some plants of canes. For
my Spaniards I sent three Portuguese women, and
reco mended them to marry them, and use them
kin y. I could have procured more women, but the
poor persecuted man had two daughters, and there
336 aonmson causon.
had wives, though in another country. All this car-
go arrived safe, and was very welcome to my old in-
habitants, who were now between sixty and seventy
peciple, besides many little children. found letters
at ondon from them all, all by way of Lisbon, when
I came back to England, being sent back to the Bra-
zils by this sloop. -
I have now done with my island; and the reader
must expect to read only of the follies of an old man,
neither warned by his own harms, nor by those of
other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by
almost for years of misery and disappointment;
336 aonmson causon.
336 aonmson causon.
My honest and truly pious clergyman left me here;
a ship being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me leave
to go thither, being still, as he observed, bound never
336 aonmson causon.
been for me if I had gone with him.
From the Brazils we made directly away over the
Atlantic Sea, to the Cape of Good Hope. \Ve stayed
there to take in fresh water, then made for the coast
of Coromandel. We touched at the island of Madagas-
336 aonmson causon.
erous, and well armed with lances and bows, which
they use with inconceivable dexterity, yet they treated
336 aonmson causon.
them, such as knives, scissors, &c. they brought us
336 aonmson causon.
took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship‘s use.
One evening, when we went on shore, a greater
number of their people came down than usual, all very
friendly and civil. They brought several kinds of
336 aonmson causon.
the women also brought us milk and roots, and seVeral
_(
things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet. The
men stayed on shore all night.
I know not what was the occasion, but I was not
nosrnson causos. 337
boat lying at an anchor, about a stone’s cast from the
land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made
one of them come on shore, and, getting some boughs
of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail
on the bottom of the boat, and lay on board, under
the cover of the branches of the trees all night.
About two o’clock in the morning we heard one of
our men making a terrible noise on shore, calling out
for God’s sake, to bring the boat in, and come and
help them, for they were all like to be murdered 2 at
nosrnson causos. 337
which was the number of guns they had, and that
three times over; for it seems the natives here were
not so easily frighted with guns as the savages were
in America, wherdl had to do with them. -
All this while I knew not what was the matter, but
rousing immediately from sleep with the noise. I caus-
ed the boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with three
fusils we had on board, to land, and assist our men.
We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men
were in too much haste; for being come to shore,
they plunged into the water; to get to the boat with
all the expedition they could, being pursued by be-
tween three and four hundred men. Our men were
nosrnson causos. 337
had pistols and swords, but which were of small use
to them. We took up seven of our men, and with
nosrnson causos. 337
while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we
were in as much danger as they were on shore, for
they poured their arrows in upon us so thick, that we
were fain to barricade the side of the beat up with
the benches, and two or three loose boards. which we
had, by mere accident, or Providence rather, in the boat.
V
And yet, had it been day-light, they are such exact
marksmen, that if they could have seen but the least
part of an of us, they would have been sure of us.
0 had, y the light of the moon, 0. little sight of
them, as they stood pelting us from the shore with
338 nonrnson causos.
we gave them a volley, and we could hear by the cries
that we had wounded several. They stood in battle
array on the shore till break of day, that they might
see the better to take aim at us.
In this state we lay, and could not tell how to
weigh anchor, or set up our sail, because we must
needs stand up in the boat and they were as sure to
hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small
shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, which
338 nonrnson causos.
and, by glasses, perceiving the posture we lay in, and
338 nonrnson causos.
stood us, and weighing anchor with all s eed, he stood
as near the shore as he durst with the s 'p, and then
sent another boat, with ten hands to assist us; but
we told them not to come too near, telling them what
condition we were in. But they stood in near to us ;
and one of the men, taking the end of the tow-line
in his hand, and keeping our boat between him and
the enemy, so that t ey could not perfectly see him,
swam on board us, and made the line fast to the boat,
upon which we slipped our little cable, and, leaving
our anchor behind, they towed us out of the reach of
the arrows, we all the while lying close behind the
barricade we had made.
As soon as we were got from between the ship and
the shore, that she could la her side to the shore, we
ran along just by them, an we poured in a broadside
among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead,
small bullets, and such stuff, besides the great shot,
which made terrible havoc among them.
When we got on board, and out of danger, we

examined into the occasion of this fray; for our super-
cargo, who had been often in those parts, said he was
sure the inhabitants would not have touched us, after
we had made a truce, if we had not done something
to provoke them to it. It came out that an old wo-
man, who had come to sell us some milk, had brought
it within our poles, with a young woman with her,
who brought some roots or herbs ; and while the old
woman was selling us the milk, one of our men offered
some rudeness to the wench, at which the old woman
made a great noise. But the seamen would not quit
his prize, but carried her out of the old woman’s sight,
among the trees, it being almost dark; the old woman
went away without her, and made an outcry amon
the people she came from, who, upon notice, raise
this great army against us in three or four hours.
One of our men was killed with alance that was
thrown at him, ~ust at the beginning of the attack, as
he sallied out of] the tent we had made; the rest came
otl' free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all
the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black
mistress, for we could not hear what became of him
for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days
after, though the wind presented, and made signals
for him; made our boat sail up shore and down shore
several leagues, but in vain. So we were obliged to
give him over.
But I could not satisfy in self without venturing
on shore once more to try if could learn any thing
of him or them. It was the third night after the action
that I had a great mind to learn what mischief we had
done, and how the game stood on the Indian side. I
was careful to do it in the dark lest we should be
attacked again; but I ought to have been sure, that
the men I went with had been under my command,
before I engaged in a. thing so hazardous as I was
brought into without my knowledge or design. We
took twenty stout fellows from the ship, besides the
supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours be-
fore midnight, at the same place where the Indians
stood drawn up the evening before. I landed here,
because my design was to see if they had quitted the
340 ROBINSON causes.
of the mischief we had done them, and to get our
man again.
We divided our men into two companies, whereof
the boatswain commanded one, and I the other. We
neither could hear nor see any body stir, when we lan-
ded, so we marched up, one body at a distanca from
340 ROBINSON causes.
nothing, it was so dark, but by-and-b , our boat-
swain stumbled, and fell over a dead ody. This
made them halt awhile: for, knowing by the circum-
stance, that they were at the place where the Indians
had stood, they waited for my coming up. Here we
halted till the moon began to rise, and then we dis-
cerned the havoc we had made among them. \Ve
_told two-and thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof
two were not dead. When we had made a full dis-
covery of all we could, I was going on board again;
but t e boatswain and his part sent me word that
they were resolved to visit the ndian town, where
these dogs, as they called them, dwelt; and desired
340 ROBINSON causes.
them, they did not doubt getting a good booty, and
340 ROBINSON causes.
name we had lost.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I would have
commanded them instantly on board knowing it was
340 ROBINSON causes.
ship’s loading in our charge, and a voyage to make,
which depended very much upon the lives of the men;
but as they were resolved to go, and asked me and my
company to go with them, I positively refused it, and
rose 11 from the ground to go to the boat. “ Come
Jack,’ says one of the men, “ will you go with me i“
-- -q-wv

I'll go for one.” Jack said he would, and another
followed, and then another, and they all left me but
noarxson caoson. 341
the supercargo and I, wit the third man, went back
to the boat, where I told them we would stay for them
and take in as many of them as should be left ; for I
told them it was a mad thing they were going about,
and perhaps most of them would share the fate of
noarxson caoson. 341
Well they all went away, and though the attempt
was desperate, yet they went about it warily as well
as boldly. They were all well armed, for every man
had a fusil or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol. Some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers,
and the boatswain, and two more, had poleaxes;
besides which, they had among them thirteen hand—
grenadoes. Bolder fellows, and better provided, never
went about any wicked work in the world.
Their chief design was plunder, and they were in
noarxson caoson. 341
noarxson caoson. 341
all. They went on a little way, and found a cow tied
to a tree; this they concluded would be a good guide
to them, for they said the cow must belong to the
town before them, and if they untied her, they should 7
see which way she went ; if she went back, they had
nothing to say to her, but if she went forward, they
had but to follow her. So they cut the cord, and the
cow went on before them, and led them directl to
the town, which consisted of above two hun red
houses, or huts. Here they found all silent, as pro-
foundly secure as sleep, and a coun that had never
seen an enemy of that kind, could ma e them, U on
this they called a council, to consider what they ad
to do, and they resolved to divide themselves into
noarxson caoson. 341
parts of the town : and as the men came out, to seize
and bind them; if any resisted, they need not be asked
what to do then ; and to plunder the rest of the hou-
342 ROBINSON (meson.
the town, and see what dimensions it was of and
consider if the might venture upon it, or no. They
did so, and esperately resolved to venture upon
them ; but while they were animating one another to
the work, three of them that were a little before the
rest called out aloud, that they had found Thomas
Jeffrys. They all ran to the place, and there they
found the poor fellow hanged up by one arm, and his
throat cut. There was an Indian house just by the
tree, where they found sixteen or seventeen of the
principal Indians who had been concerned in the fray
with us before, and two or three of them wounded
with our shot; and our men found they were awake.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged
them, that the swore they would be revenged, and
that not an In 'an who came into their hands should
have quarter; and to work the went immediately.
342 ROBINSON (meson.
342 ROBINSON (meson.
little powder in the palms of their hands, and, in a
342 ROBINSON (meson.
342 ROBINSON (meson.
342 ROBINSON (meson.
began to blaze, the poor frighted creatures rushed out
to save their lives, but met with their fate in the
attempt, and especially at the door, where they drove
them back, the boatswain killing one or two with
his ole-axe. The house being large, and many init
he id not go in but called for a hand-grenade, and
342 ROBINSON (meson.
but when it burst, made such havoc among them, that
they cried out hideously.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
part of the house were killed or hurt with the gre-
nado, except two or three more, who pressed to the
door, which the boatswain and two more kept with
.an-

their bayonets, and do; ‘iatched all that came that way.
But there was another apartment in the house
where the prince or king, or whatever he was, an
several others, were; and these the ke t in till the
nonrxson onvsos. 343
and they were smothered or burned together.
nonrxson onvsos. 343
would not waken the people faster than they could
nonrxson onvsos. 343
enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little
nonrxson onvsos. 343
houses being made of light, combustible stuff, that
they could hardly bear in the street between them,
nonrxson onvsos. 343
nonrxson onvsos. 343
burning houses, or frightened them out of others, our
people were ready at their doors to knock them on
tJhe1P head, calling to one another to remember Thomas
0 s.
“ghile this was doing, I was very uneasy, especially
nonrxson onvsos. 343
just by me. M neévhew the captain, roused by his
men, seeing sue a re, was very uneasy, not know-
ing what t e matter was, [or what danger I was in,
especially hearing the guns, for they began to use
nonrxson onvsos. 343
any more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we
might be in, he took another boat, and with thirteen
men, came on shore to me. He was surprised to see
me and the supercar in the boat, with no more than
two men, for one ha been left to keep the boat, and
though he was glad we were well, yet he was impa-
tient with us to know what was doing, for the noise
nonrxson onvsos. 343
Nor could I stay behind new; so the captain or-
dered two men to row back the pinnace, and fetch
twelve men more from the ship, leaving the lam7 boat
at an anchor, and that, when they came bash, six
men should keep the two boats, and six more come
after us, so that he left only sixteen men in the ship;
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
men, whereof two were lost in the quarrel which
brought this mischief on.
Being now on the march, we felt little of the ground
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
the noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
However, we Went on, and at length came to the town,
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
and {ust before it, plain to be seen by the light of the
344 nonmsor: cnoson.
lay in a heap among the tire. In short, there were
such instances of a rage altogether barbarous, and of
afury beyond what was human, that we thought it
impossible our men could be guilty of it, or, if they
were the authors of it, that every one ought to be put
to death.
Presently four of our men came up, with the boats
swain at their head, running over the heaps of bodies
they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as
if they wanted more people to massacre, when our
men hallooed to them, and they came up to us As
soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a shout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come,
and, without hearing to hear me, “Captain,” says he,
“I am glad you are come; we have not half done
yet. Villains! hell-hound dogs! I'll kill as many
of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head. We
have sworn to spare none of them; we’ll root out the
very nation of them from the earth!" and thus he
ran on, out of breath, too, with action, and would not
give us leave to speak a word. At last, raising my
voice, to silence him a little, “Barbarous dog!’ said
I, “what are you doing 1" I won’t have one more
ao'nmsou causes. 346
creature touched, upon pain of death. I charge you,
upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still
here, or you are a. dead man this minute." “Why,
sir,” says he, “do you know what you do, or what
they have done? If you want a reason for what we
have done come hither P” and with that he showed
me the poor fellow hanging up in a tree, with his
throat cut.
I confess I was urged then myself, and at another
time should have been forward enough; but I thought
they had carried their rage too far, and thought of
J acob’s words to his sons Simeon and Levi, “ Cursed
Av" —_
it was cruel P” But when the men with me saw the
sight, I had enough to do to restrain them ;_ even my
nephew fell in with them, and told me, that he was
only concerned for fear of the men being overpowered :
for, as to the people he thought not one of them ought
to live, for they had glutted themselves with the mur-
der of the poor man, and the ought to be used like
murderers. U on these wor s, away ran eight of my
men, with the oatswain and his crew, to complete
their bloody work : and I came away pensive and sad.
I got nobody to come back with me but the super-
cargo and two men. Immediatel I took the pin-
nace, and went aboard, and sent er back to assist
the men in what might happen. By the time that
the men get to the shore again with the pinnace, our
men began to appear, they came dropping in, one by
one, in such a manner that a small force of resolute
men might have cut them all off.
The next day we set sail, so we never heard any
more of it. Our men dilfered in the account of the
number they killed, but, according to the best of
their accounts, they killed or destroyed, about one
Av" —_
and left not a house standing in the town. As for the
Av" —_
the tree where he was hanged by one hand, and buried
him there.
However just our men thought this action to be, I
was against them in it; and I always after that time,
told them God would blast the voyage, for I looked
upon the blood they shed that night to be murder in
them; for though it is true they killed Thomas J ef-
346 nosnzson cnosoa.
had broken the truce, and had violated, or debauched
a young woman of their’s who came to our camp in-
nocentl , and on the faith of their capitulation.
The oatswain defended this quarrel when we were
afterwards on board. He said it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really had not, and
that the war was begun the night before, by the
natives, who had shot at us, and killed one of our /
men without any just revocation; so that as we were
346 nosnzson cnosoa.
pacity to do ourselves justice in an extraordinary man-
ner; that though the poor man had taken a little
liberty with a wench, he ought not to have been mur-
dered in such a villainous manner: and that they did
nothin but what was just, and what the laws of God
allowe to be done to murderers.
But my frequent preaching on this subject had worse
consequences than I expected; and the boatswain
came up boldly to me, and told me I continually
346 nosnzson cnosoa.
men very ill on that account, an himself in particu-
lar ; that as I was but a passenger, and had no com-
mand in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that I might have some illde-
sign in my head, and, perhaps, to call them to account
for it when they came to England ; and that, there-
fore, unless I would have done with it, and not to con-
cern myself any farther with him, or any of his af-
fairs, he would leave the shi ; for he did not think it
safe to sail with me among t em.
I heard him patiently till he had done, and then
told him, that I did confess I had 0 posed the mas-
sacre at Madagascar, for such I wo (1 always call it ‘
and that I had, on all occasions, spoken my mind
freely about it, though not more to him than to the'
rest; that as to my having no command in the ship
that was true, nor did I exercise any authority, on
took the liberty of speaking my mind inthings which
publicly concerned us all; as to what concern I had
In the voyage, that was none of his business; that I
was a considerable owner in the ship, and in that
claim I had a right to speak, even farther than I had
yet done, and would not be accountable to him, or an
one else. and began to be a little warm with him. 0
made but little reply to me at that time, and I thought
that affair was over. We were at this time in the
ROBINSON onusoa. 347
with the supercargo, in the ship s boat, to divert my-
self, and towards evening was preparing to go on
board, when one of the men came to me, and told me
not to trouble myself to come down to the boat, for
they had orders not to carry me on board. Any one
may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a
message ; and I asked the man who bade him deliver
that errand to me. He told me the ooxswain. I bade
him let them know he had delivered his message, and
that I had given him no answer to it.
I immediately found out the supercargo, and told
him the story; adding that there would certainly be
a mutiny in the ship, and entreated him to go imme-
diately on board the ship, in an Indian boat, and ac-
quaint the captain of it. But before I had spoken to
ROBINSON onusoa. 347
boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the in-
ROBINSON onusoa. 347
came up to the quarter-deck, and desired to speak with
the captain; and there the boatswain, making a lo
harangue, and repeating all he had said to me, tol
,
the captain, that as I was now gone peaceably on
shore, the were loath to use any violence with me,
which, if had not gone on shore, they would have
348 nonrs'sox causes.
to tell him, that as they had shipped themselves to
serve in the ship, under his command, they would
perform it faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship,
or the captain oblige me to uit it, they would all
leave the ship, and sail no fart er with him. And at
that word, “all,” he turned his face about, towards
the mainmast, which was the signal agreed on between
them; at which all the seamen being got together,
they cried out, “ One and all ! One and all !"
My nephew the captain, was a man of spirit, and of
great presence of mind. and though he was surprised
at the thing, yet he told them calmly, he would con-
sider the matter, but that he could do nothing in it
till he had s oken to me about it. So away he came
to me with this account, a little after the message came
to me from the coxswain.
I was very glad to see my nephew, for I feared that
348 nonrs'sox causes.
away with the ship; and then I had been strippednaked
in a remote country, and nothing to help myself to.
In short, I had been in a worse case that when I was
all alone in the island. But they had not gene that
length to my great satisfaction; and my nephew told
me what they had said to him, and how they had
sworn, and shook hands, that they Would all leave the
ship, if I came on board. I told him he should not
be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore.
I only desired he would take care and send all my
348 nonrs'sox causes.
348 nonrs'sox causes.
as well as I could.
This was bad news for my nephew, but there was
no way, but to comply with it. So he went on board
348 nonrs'sox causes.
yielded to their im ortunity, and had sent for his
goods from on boar the ship. So the matter was
over in a few hours, the men returned to their duty,
and I began to consider what course I should steer,
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world.
near three thousand leagues by sea farther from Eng-
land than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the Great Mogul’s country
to Surat, and go from thenoe to Bassora by sea, up
the gulf of Persia, and from thence take the way of
the caravans, over the deserts of Arabia, to Aleppo
and Scanderoon: and by sea again to Italy, and so
overland into France: and this, put together, might
be, at least, a full diameter of the globe.
My nephew left me one companion, and one ser-
ROBINSON causes. 349
gaged to go with me, and the other was his own ser-
vant. I took a good lodging in the house of an
Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged, some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Eng-
lishmun. Here I was handsomely entertained; and
I stayed here above nine months, considering what
course to take, and how to manage myself. I had
some English goods with me of value, and a consid-
erable sum of money, my nephew furnishing me with
a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened,
whatever might happen. I quickly disposed of my
goods to advantage; and I bought here some good
diamonds, which, of all other things was the most
proper for me in my circumstances, because I might
always carry my estate about me. The English mer-
chant, who lodged with me, and with whom I had
contracted an intimate ac uaintance, came to me one
morning: “Countryman, ’ said he, “I have a pro-
ject to communicate to you, which, as it suits my
thoughts, ma , for aught I know, suit yours also
when you sh 1 have considered it. “Here we are
posted,” says he, “ you by accident and I by my own
choice, in a part of the world very remote from our
own country; but it is in a country where, by us who
understand trade, a great deal of money is to be got.
If you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand
350 nosrnsox enusos.
minds; you shall be captain, I will be merchant, and
we will go a trading voyage to China.”
I liked this proposal well, because it seemed to be
expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly
a. manner. It was some time before we could get a
ship to our mind, and when we had got a vessel, it
was not easy to get English sailors; that is, so many
as were necessary to govern the voyage, and manage
the sailors which we should pick up there. At last
we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English;
a Dutch ca enter, and three Portuguese foremast-
men; with t ese we found we could do well enough,
having Indian seamen tqmakc up.
We made a very good voyage, and I got so much
350 nosrnsox enusos.
into the method of getting more, that, had I been
twenty years younger, I should have been tempted
to stay here, and sought no farther for making my
fortune. But what was all this to a man on the
wrong side of threescore, rich enough, and came
abroad more in obedience to a. restless desire of
seging the world, than a covetous desire of gain in
it
My friend now proposed a voyage to the Spice
Islands, to bring home cloves from the Manillas,
where the Dutch trade ; but the islands partly belong
to the Spaniards; though we went not so far, but to
some other, where they have not the whole power, as
they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. We were not long in
preparing for this voyage, which we made very suc-
cessfully, touching at Borneo, and several other islands,
350 nosrnsox enusos.
nonrnson causes. 851
Persian merchants, w 0 carried them to the Gulf,
nonrnson causes. 851
mone .
A little while after this, a Dutch ship came from
Batavia; she was a coaster, not a European trader,
two hundred tons burden. The men, as they re-
tended, having been so sickly, that the captain ad
not men enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Ben-
gal; and, as if having got money enough, or being
willing, for other reasons, to go to Europe, he gave
public notice that he would sell his ship. This came
to my ears before In new partner heard of it, and I
had a eat mind to uy it. So I went home to him,
and to (1 him of it. He considered awhile, for he was
no rash man, but, musing some time, he replied,
“ She is a little too big ; but we will have her.’ Accor-
dingly we bought the shi , paid for her, and took
possession. \Vhen we ha done so, we resolved to
entertain the men, to join those we had, for the pur-
suing our business; but, they having not received
their wages, but their share of the money, as we
earned, not one of them was to be found. We inquired
about them, but, were told that they were all gone
together by land to Agra, the great city of the Mo-
gul’s residence, and from thence were to travel to
Surat, and so b sea to the Gulf of Persia.
This trouble me a good while, for I missed the
opportunity of going with them, for such a ramble,
and in such company, would have guarded and di-
verted me, and I should have seen the world, and gone
nonrnson causes. 851
after, when I lcnew what sort of fellows they were,
for this man they called captain was the gimner only,
not the commander; that they had been a trading
voyage, in which the were attacked on shore by some
of the Malays, who ad killed the captain, and three
of his men, and that these men, eleven in number,
had resolved to run away with the ship, which the
did, and had brought her in at the bay of Beng' ,
352 nonruson enusos.
Whom we shall bear farther.
\Vell, let them come by the ship how they would,
we came honestly by her, as we thought; though we
did not examine into things so exactly as we ought,
for we never inquired any thing of the seamen, who,
if we had examined, would certainly haVe faltered in
their accounts, and contradicted one another, or one
way or other, we should have seen reason to suspect
them; but the man showed us a bill of sale for the
ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such
name, (all a forgery,) and called himself by that name,
and we could not contradict him: and, having no sus-
picion of the thing, we went through with our bargain.
However, we picked up some English seamen here
after this, and some Dutch, and we now resolved for
a second voyage to the south-east, for cloves &c., to
352 nonruson enusos.
to last, six years in this country, trading from port to
port, backward and forward, with very good success,
and was now the last year, with my partner, going
in the ship above-mentioned on a voyage to China,
352 nonruson enusos.
voyage, being, by contrary winds, obliged to beat
up and down a great while 1n the Straits of Malacca,
and among the islands, we were no sooner got clear of
352 nonruson enusos.
352 nonruson enusos.
This forced us to make for some port, and my part-
ner, who knew the country, directed the captain to
ut into the river Cambodia, for I had made the Eng-
ish mate, one Mr. Thompson, captain, not being wil-
ling to take the charge of the ship myself. The river
lies on the north side of the bay or gulf which goes
up to Siam.
While here, and going often on shore for refre>h~

ment, there comes to me one day an Englishman, and
he was, it seems, a gunner’s mote on board an Eng-
lish East India. ship, which rode in the same river,
near the city of Cambodia ; he comes up to me, and,
speaking in English, “ Sir,” said he, “ you are a.
stranger to me, and I to you, but I have something
to tell you that verynearly concerns you. But the short
nosnvson cnuson. 353
you know, viz. that you were with this ship at Sum-
atra: that there your captain was murdered bythe
Malays, with three of his men ; and that you or some
of those that were on board with you, ran away with
the ship, and are since turned pirates. Assure your-
self, if you do not put to sea. immediately, you will
nosnvson cnuson. 353
men; and if you are taken, you will be hanged for a,
irate. If you have any regard for your life, and the
ives of all our men, put out to sea without fail at high
water ; and' as you will be gone too far out before
they can come down ; for they will come away at high
water; and as they have twenty miles to come, you
get near two hours start of them by the difference of
the tide, not reckoning the length of the way; besides,
boats will not venture to follow you far out to sea.”
“ Well,” said I, “ you have been very kind in this:
how shall I make you amends ‘8” “ Sir,” says he,
“ you may not be so willing to make me amends, be-
cause you may not be convinced of the truth of it. I’ll
make an offer to you ; I have nineteen months pay
due to me on board the ship , which I came out
of England in ; and a Dutchman with me has seven
months pay due, if you will make good our pay, we
nosnvson cnuson. 353
will desire no more; but if we convince you that we
have your life. the ship, and the lives of all the men
in her, we will leave the rest to you.”
I consented to this. and went immediately on board,
and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the
W

ship’s side, my partner, who was on board, came out
on the quarter deck. and called to me with great joy.
"0 ho! 0 ho! we have stopped the leak!"—“ Say
you so," said I; “ thank God ; weigh the anchor im-
mediately.”—“Weigh !" says he, “what do you mean
by that? what is the matter?” says he. “ Ask no ques-
tions," said I, “put all hands to work, and weigh
without loosing a minute.” He was surprised ; how-
ever, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered
the anchor to be got up ; and though the tide was not
quite done, yet a little land-breeze blo wing, we stood
out to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, and told
him the storgv in general; and we called in the men,
and they tol us the rest of it. It took up a great deal
of time, and before we had done, a. seaman came to
the cabin door, and said that the captain bade him tell
us we were chased. “ Chascd P” said I, “by whom,
and by what ?”—“ By ve sloops, or'boats," said the
fellow, “full of men. ‘--“Very we ," said I, “then
it is apparent there is something in it.” I ordered all
our men to be called up, and told them that there was
a design to seize the ship, and to take us for pirates,
and asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another. The men answered cheerfully that, one
and all they would live and die with us. Then I asked
354 nonznson causon.
resist them I resolved we would to the last drop.
He said readily, that the way was to keep them 01f
with our great shot as lon as we could, and then to
354 nonznson causon.
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any
longer, we should retire to our close quarters: per-
haps they had not materials to break open our bulk-
heads, or get in upon us. The gunner had orders to
bring two guns to bear fore and aft, to clear the deck,
and load them with musket-bullets and small pieces
354 nonznson causon.
all this while kept out to sea, with wind enough, and
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
ing us with all the sail they could make.
Two of those boats, by our glasses we could see, were
English, had outsailed the rest, were near two leagues
a-head of them, and gained upon us considerably, so that
we found that they would come up with us; upon which
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
signal for parley ; but they crowded after us till they
came within shot.
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
them with shot. But they came on till we were
near enough to call to them with a speaking trumpet,
and bade them keep ed" at their peril.
It was all one : they crowded after us, and endea-
voured to come under our stern, to board us on our
quarter; upon which. seeing they were resolute for
mischief, and depended upon the strength that follow-
ed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, so that they
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
true as to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat,
and bring them to the necessity of taking down their
sail, and running all to the head of the boat, to keep
her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of
it; but seeing the foremost boat crowd still on after
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
While this was doing, one of the three boats behind,
being forwarder than the other two, made up to the
boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we
could see her take out her men. We called again to
the foremost boat, and offered to parle again, and to
know what was her business with us, ut had no an-
swer, only she crowded close under our stern. Upon
this our gunner, a very dexterous fellow, ran out his
ROBINSON cnvson. 355
ing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps,
and came on; but the gunner getting quickly ready
7256 nosrnsox causes.
which, though it missed the boat, fell in among the
men, and we could see did great mischief among them;
but we taking no notice of that, weared the ship again,
and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and,
7256 nosrnsox causes.
pieces; in particular, her rudder and a piece of her
stern were shot away ; so they handed their sail im-
mediately, and were in great disorder. But to com-
7256 nosrnsox causes.
them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but
we found the boat was sinking, and some of the men
already in the water. I immediately manned our pin-
nace, which we had kept close by our side, with or-
dcrs to pick up some of the men if they could, and
save them from drowning, and to come on board with
them, because the rest of the boats began to come up.
Our men in the pinnace took up three men, one of
whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were
on board, we crowded all sail, and stood farther out to
sea, and when the other three boats came up to the
7256 nosrnsox causes.
Being thus delivered from a danger which seemed
to be much greater than I had apprehended, I took
care to change our course, and not let any one ima-
gine whither we were going; so we stood out to sea
eastward, out of the course of all European ships,
whether bound to China, or any where else within
the commerce of the European nations, and resolved
to go to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to China, and
7256 nosrnsox causes.
dispose of the ship, and come back in some of the ves-
sels of the country, such as we could get. This was
approved of as the best method for our security; and
accordingly we steered away N. N. E., keeping above
7256 nosrnsox causes.

This, however, put us to some inconveniences; for
aonrxsox ciwsos. 357
the shore, seemed to be more steadily against us, blow-
ing almost trade, as we call it, from the east, and E.
N. E., so that we were a long while upon our voyage;
and we were but ill provided with victuals for so long
a run; and, which was still worse, there was some
danger that those English and Dutch ships, whose
boats pursued us, whereof some were bound that we ,
might be got in before us, and, if not, some other ship
bound to China. might have information of us from
them, and pursue us with the same vigour.
After a tedious and irregular course, and very much
straitened for provisions, we came within sight of the
aonrxsox ciwsos. 357
the circumstances we were in, and the danger, if we
had not escaped, we resolved to put into a small riv-
er, which had depth enough of water for us, and to
see if we could, either over land, or by the ship’s pin-
nace, come to know what ships were in any port there-
abouts. The place was wild and barbarous, the peo-
ple thieves, even by profession; and though, it is
true, we had not much to seek of them, and except
getting a few provisions, cared not how little we had
aonrxsox ciwsos. 357
kept ourselves from being insulted by them.
have observed that our ship sprang a leak at sea,
aonrxsox ciwsos. 357
happened, it was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy
minute of our being to be seized by the Dutch and
English ships near the ha of Siam; yet as we did
aonrxsox ciwsos. 357
resolved while in this place, to lay her on shore, take
out what heavy things we had on board, which were
not many, and to wash and clean her bottom, and to
aonrxsox ciwsos. 357
lightened the ship, and brought all our tins, and
other moveable things, to one side, we trief to bring
her downI that we might come at her bottom: for on
358 ROBINSON causes.
aground.
The inhabitants who had never seen such a sight,
came down to the shore to look at us, and seeing the
ship lie down on one side in such a. manner, and heel-
ing towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who
were at work on her bottom with stages, and with
their boats on the 03 side, they concluded that the
ship' was cast away, and so lay fast on the ground.
On this supposition, they came all about us in two
or three hours time, with ten or twelve large boats,
having some of them eight, some ten men, in a boat,
intending no doubt, to come on board and plunder the
ship, and, if they had found us there, to carry us
away for slaves to their king, or whatever they called
him, for we knew not who was their governor. When
they came up to the shi , and began to row round
her, they discovered us a5 hard at work on the out-
side of the ship’s bottom and side, Washing and grav-
ing, as every seafaring man knows how.
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what
their design was; but being willing to be sure, some
of us got into the ship, and others handed down arms
and ammunition to those at work, to defend them-
selves with, if there should be occasion. In less than
a quarter of an hour's consultation they agreed, it
seems, that the ship was really a wrec ; that we
Were all at work to save her, or to save our lives by
the help of our boats, and when we handed our arms
into the boats, they concluded that we were trying to
save some of our goods. Upon this, they took it for
granted that all belonged to them ; and away they
came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line
of battle.
Our men, seeing so many of them, were frightened,
358 ROBINSON causes.
to us to know what they should do. I immediately
called to the men who worked upon the stage to sli
them down, and get up the side into the ship, an
those in the boat to row round and come on card;
and those few of us who were on board worked with
all the strength we had to bring the ship to rights.
But neither the men upon the stage, nor those in the
boats, could do as they were ordered, before the Cochin-
chinese were upon them, and with two of their boats
boarded our long boat, and began to lay hold of the
men as their prisoners.
ROBINSON causon. 359
seaman, a stout, strong fellow, who, 1]!“ ing a musket
ROBINSON causon. 359
in the boat, like a fool, as I thought. But he under-
stood his business much better than I could teach
him, for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged him by
main force out of their boat into ours, where, taking
him by the two ears, he beat his head so against the
boat’s gunnel, that the fellow died instantly in his
hands; and, a Dutchman, who stood next, took up
the musket, and with the butt-end of it so laid about
ROBINSON causon. 359
tempted to enter the boat ; but this was little towards
resisting twenty or thirty men, who fearless, because
ignorant of their danger, began to throw themselves
ROBINSON causon. 359
fend it. But an accident gave our men a complete
victory, which deserved our laughter rather than any
thing else, and that was this :— ‘
Our carpenter being preparing to grave the outside
of the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he had
caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles
ROBINSON causon. 359
pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, which
the shipwrights use for that work ; and the man that
attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his
hand, with which he supplied the men that were at
work with that hot stuff : two of the enem ‘s men en-
tered the boatjust where this fellow stoo , being in
the foreshcets; he immediately saluted them with a
ladle full of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned
and scolded them, being half naked, that they roared
out like two bulls, and, enraged with the pain, leaped
both into the sea. (The carpenter saw it, and cried
out, “ Well done, Jack, give them some more of it ;”
when, stepping forward himself, he takes one of their
mops, and, dipping it into the pitch pot, he and his
men threw it about them so plentifully, that, of all
the men in three boats, there was not one that was
not scalded and burned with it in a most frightful
manner, and made a most dreadful howling and
cr mg.
While this was doing, my partner and I, who man-
aged the rest of the men on board, had with great
dexterity, brought the ship almost to rights, and hav-
ing gotten the guns into their places again, the gun-
ner called to me to bid our boots get out of the way,
360 nonnvsox cuts'os.
360 nonnvsox cuts'os.
without him, but bade him heat another pitch-kettle,
which our cook took care of. But the enemy was so
360 nonnvsox cuts'os.
that they would not come on again ; and some of
them, that were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as
it were, upright, began to see their mistake, and give
360 nonnvsox cuts'os.
360 nonnvsox cuts'os.
ing gotten seine rice, roots, and read, with about
sixteen good big hogs, on board two days before, we
resolved to go forward, whatever came of it. We got
all our things on board the same evening, and the
next morning were ready to sail. We would have
gone into the bay of Tonquin, for we wanted informa-
tion concerning some Dutch ships that had been there,
but we durst not stand in there, because we had seen
several ships go in, as we supposed, a little before.
So we kept on N. E. towards the Isle of Formosa,
as much afraid of bein seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a utch or English merchant
ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man of
war.
\Vheu we got to sea, we kept on N. E. as we would
go to the Manillas, or the Philippine islands, that we
might not fall into the way of any of the European I
ships; and then we steered north again, till we came
to the latitude of twenty-two degrees twenty minutes,
by which we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water
and fresh provisions, which the people there, who are
VG? courteous and civil, supplied us with willingly,
an dealt very fairly with us in all their bargains,
nonmsox causon. 361
be owing to the remains of Christianity, once planted
here by a Dutch missionary of Protestants. From
hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China
at an equal distance, till we were beyond all the ports
of China, where our European shi s usually come,
being resolved not to fall into their ands, especially
in this country, where, as our circumstances were, we
could not fail of being entirely ruined.
Being now in the latitude of thirty degrees, we re-
nonmsox causon. 361
come at, and, standing in for the shore, a boat came
off two leagues to us, with an old Portuguese pilot on
board, who, knowing us to be an European ship, came
to offer his service, which we were glad of, and took
him on board. I began to talk with him about car-
rying us 1» the Gulf of Nanquin, the most northern
part of the coast of China. The old man said he knew
the Gulf of Nanquin very well, but smiling, asked us
what we would do there. '
I told him we would sell our cargo, and purchase
China wares, calieoes, raw silks, tea, wrought, silks,
&c. and return by the same course we came. He told
us our best ort would have been Macao, where we
could not fail of a market for our opium, and might,
for our money, have purchased all sorts of China goods
as cheap as we could at Nanquin. I told him we were
gentlemen, as well as merchants, and that we had a
mind to go and see the great city of Pekin. and the
famous court of the monarch of China. “ Why then,"
said he, “ on should go to Ningpo, where, by the
river which runs into the sea there, you may go up
362 ROBlNSON cnrson.
stream, which goes through the heart of all the vast
empire of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some
considerable hills by sluices and gates, up to the city
of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and sev-
enty leagues.” “ Well,” said I, “ Seignior Portu-
guese, but that is not our business now, the great
question is, if you can carry us up to the city of Nan-
quin, from whence we can travel to Pekin afterwards.’ ’
He said he could do so very well, and there was a
great Dutch ship gone up that we just before. This
gave me a little shock a a Dutch s ip was now our ter-
362 ROBlNSON cnrson.
ships they trade with in those parts being of great
burden, and of much greater force than we were.
The old man found me a little confused, when he
named a Dutch ship, and said, “ Sir, you need be un-
der no apprehension of the Dutch, I suppose they are
not now at war with your nation."-—“No," said I,
“ that's true, but I know not what liberties men may
take when they are out of the reach of the laws of
their own country.”—“ Why,” said he, “ you are no
pirates, what need you fear? They will not meddle
with peaceable merchants, sure.” I started at the word
pirates, and he, seeing my confusion, said, “ Sir, I
362 ROBlNSON cnrson.
362 ROBlNSON cnrson.
and, depend upon it, I’ll do you all the service I can.”

—“Why, scignior,” said I, “I am a little unsettled
in my resolution at this time, whither to go in par-
ticular, and I am something more so for what you said
about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
seas ; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them,
for you see we have but a small force, and weakly
manned.”
“ O sir,” said he, “do not be concerned; I do not
know that there have been any pirates in these seas
noaxnson cannon. 363
bay of Siam, about a month since, but she is gone to
the southward ; nor was she a ship of any great force,
noaxnson cannon. 363
but was run away with a reprobate crew that were on
board, after the captain and some of his men had been
murdered by the Malays, near the island of Sumatra.”
“What I" said I, seeming to know nothing of the
matter, “ did they murder the captain 'z‘" “ N0,"
said he, “ I do not understand that they murdered
him; but, as they ran away with the ship, itis generally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the
Malays, who did murder him, and, erhaps, procured
them to do it."—“ \Vhy, then," sai I, “ they deserve
death as much as if they had done it themselves.”—
“Nay,” said the old man, “they do deserve it; and
they will certainly have it, if they light upon any
English or Dutch ship, for they have all agreed, that
if they meet that rogue, they will give him no quar-
ter."
“But,” said I, “you say the pirate is gone out of
those seas; how can they meet with him then F”—
‘~ Why, that’s true," said he, “they do say so; but
he was in the bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia,
and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who be-
longed to the ship, and who Were left on shore when
they ran away with her ; and some English and Dutch
traders being in the river, they were within a little of
taking him. “Nay,” said he, “if the foremost boat
had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly
364 ~ nonrssozv cnvsca.
364 ~ nonrssozv cnvsca.
and disabled them before the others came up : and
364 ~ nonrssozv cnvsca.
follow him, and so he got away.”
“ What l” said I, “ will they execute them right or
364 ~ nonrssozv cnvsca.
wards ?"—“ O, sir, said the old pilot, there is no need
to make a formal business of it with such rogues;
let them tie them back to back, and set them a div-
ing; it is no more than they rightly deserve."
had my old man fast on board, and he could do
me no harm, so I turned short upon him; “Well,
now, seignior,” said I, “ and that is the reason why I
would have you carry me to Nanquin, and not put
back into Macao, or to any other part where the Eng-
lish or Dutch ships come; for, be it known to you,
seignior, those captains of English or Dutch ships are
a parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither
know what belongs to justice, nor how to behave them-
selves as the laws of God or nature direct; but being
364 ~ nonrssozv cnvsca.
power, they would act the murderers to punish rob-
ers, would insult men falsely accused, and determine
them guilty without due inquiry; and perhaps, I may
live to call some of them to an account for it, where
they may be taught how justice is to beexecuted, that
no man ought to be treated as a criminal till some
evidence may be had of the crime, and that he is the
I told him, that this was the very shi they had
attacked, and gave him a full account of t e skirmish
we had with their boats, and how foolishly and cow-
ard-like they behaved. I told him the story of our
buyin the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us.
I toldiim the reasons I had to belieVe this story of
killing the Master by the Malays was not true, as also
"' Ire-r»
l-v—I—w.
the running away with the ship ; but that it was all
aomxsos causes. 365
pirates, that they ought to have been sure that it was
so before theyhad ventured to attack us by surprise, and
oblige us to resist them; adding that they would have
the blood of those men who were killed there in our
just defence to answer for. The old man was amazed
at this relation, and told us we were very much in the
right to go away to the north, and that, if he might
advise us, it should be to sell the shi in China, which
we might very well do, and buy or uild another in
the count . “ And,” said he, “though you will not
get so goo a ship, yet you may get one able to carry
you and all your goods back again to Bengal, or any
where else.”
I told him I would take his advice, when I came
aomxsos causes. 365
get any customer to buy this. He replied, I should
meet with customers enough for the ship at Nanquin,
and that a Chinese junk would serve me very well to
0 back again; and that he would procure me people
€oth to bu the one and sell the other.
“ Well, ut, seignior," says I, “as you say that
they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if 1 fol-
low your measures, be instrumental in bringing some
innocent men into a terrible broil, and, perhaps, oc-
casion their being murdered in cold blood; for, wher-
aomxsos causes. 365
the men by proving this was the ship, and so inno-
cent men may be overpowered and murdered.”—
“Why,” said the old man, “ I’ll try to prevent that
also; for as I know all those commanders you speak
of very well, and shall see them all as they pass by,
I will set them to rights in the thing.” We were
now at the south-west oint of the great Gulf of Nan-
quin, and I asked the o d pilot if there was no har-
bour that I could put into, and pursue my business with
the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the one-
my. He told me if I would sail to the southward,
about two-and-forty leagues, there was a little port,
called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission
landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the
Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no Euro-
pean ships ever put in, and if I put in there, I might
consider what farther course to take when on shore.
He confessed it was not a place for merchants, except
at certain times, they had a kind of fair there, when
the merchants from Japan came over to buy merchan-
dise. So we agreed to go back to this place. I was
joyful, and thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore,
resolving, and my partner too, that, if it was possible
866 nonmsou causos.
thoug not to our satisfaction, we would never set foot
on board that vessel more; for nothing makes man-
kind so miserablc as being in constant fear.
866 nonmsou causos.
had upon the past variety of my circumstances; how
hard it was. that I, who had spent forty years of con-
866 nonmsou causos.
which all men drive at—viz. to have rest and plenty
-—should be a volunteer in new sorrows, by my own
unhappy choice, having escaped so many dangers in
youth, should now come to be hanged in my old age,
1n so remote a place, for a crime I was not in the least
inclined to, much less guilty of, and where innocence
was not like to be any protection at all to me.
I was greatly cast down with these thoughts ; but
sometimes natural courage would take its place, and
then I would be talking myself up to vigorous reso-
lutions, that I would not be taken to be barbarously
used b a parcel of merciless wretches; that it was
much {otter to have fallen into the hands of men-
eaters, who would feast upon me, than b those who
would, perhaps, glut their rage upon me {y inhuman
tortures and arbarities; that, in the case of the sav-
866 nonmsou causos.


and why should I not do so now, seeing it was much
more dreadful, to me, at least, to think of falling into
these men's hands, than it was to think of being eaten
by men? for the savages would not eat a man till he
was dead, but that these men had many arts beyond
the cruelty of death. Thus I tormented myself.
“Then we had got safe on shore, the old pilot, who
was now our friend, got us alodging, and a ware-
house, for our goods; it was a little house, with a
large house joining to it, all palisadoed round with
large canes, to keep out pilfering thieves, of which
it seems, there were not a few in the country. How-
ever, the magistrates allowed us a little guard, and we
had a soldier, with a kind of albert, or half-pike, who
stood sentinel at our door, to whom we allowed a pint
of rice, and a piece of money, about the value of
threepence, er day, so that our goods were kept very
safe. The air usually kept in this place, had been
over some time ; however, we found there three or four
junks in the river, and two Japanese ships from Japan,
with goods bought in China, and were not gone away,
nonmson causes. 367
our old pilot did, was to bring us acquainted with
three missionary Romish priests, who were in the
town, and who had been some time, converting the
people to Christianity. One of these was a French-
man, called father Simon, a jolly well-conditioned man,
very free in his conversation, not so serious and grave
as the other two, one of whom was a Portuguese, and
the other a Genoese: but Father Simon was cour-
teous, and very agreable company; the other two were
more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied
seriously to the work they came about. We often ate
and drank with those men, and though I must eon-
fess the conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to
Christianity, is so far from the true conversion, re-
quired to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it amounts to little more than letting them know
the name of Christ, say some prayers to the Virgin
Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they understand
not, and to cross themselves.
Father Simon was appointed, by order of the chief
of the mission, to go up to Pekin, and he waited only
for another priest, ordered to come to him to Macao,
to go with him; and we scarce ever met but he in-
vited me to go that journey with him, telling me he
would show me all the glorious things of that mighty
empire, and among the rest, the greatest city in the
world; “a city," said he, “that your London and
our Paris put together cannot be equal to.” This was
the (lzity of Pekiu, which is very great, and full of
eop e.
p Dining wlth the priest one day, and being very
merry together, I showed some little inclination to go
with him, and be pressed me and my partner very
hard to consent. “Why, Father Simon," says my
partner, “why should you desire our company so
much? You know we are heretics, and you do not
love us, nor can you keep us company with any plea-
sure.”-—“ Oh,” says he, “you may, perhaps be good
Catholics in time: my business here is to convert hea-
thens, and I may convert you too ? “ Very well, father,”
said I, “so you will preach to us all the way.” I will
not be troublesome to you,” said he, “our religion
‘ does not divest us of manners; we are here like coun—
trymen. and so we are compared to the place we are
in; and if you are Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we
may all be Christians at last; at least we are all gen-
tlemen, and we may act as such.
We had all this While our ship and merchandise to
dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful what we
should do, for we were in a place of little business;
and once I was about to venture to sail for the river
Kilam, and the ci of Nanquin; but Providence see-
med now more vislbly than ever to concern itself in
our affairs, and I was encouraged to think I should,

one wa or other, get out of this tangled circumstance,
and be rought home to my own country again, though
I had not the least view of the manner; and when I
thought of it, could not imagine by what method it
was to be done. Providence, I say, began here to
ROBINSON causes. 369
that our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan mer-
chant to us, who inquired what goods we had; and
he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good
price for it, paying us in gold, by weight, some in
small pieces of their own coin, and some in small
wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each. While
dealing for our opium, it came into my head that
he might, perhaps, deal with us for the ship too:
and I ordered the interpreter, to propose it to him.
He shrugged up his shoulders at it; but a few days
after, he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a pro-
posal to make to me, and that was this; he had bought
a great quantity of goods of us, when he had no
thoughts of buying the ship, and that, therefore. he
had not money enough to pay for the ship, but if I
would let the same men who were in the ship navigate
her. he would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would
send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with
another loading, which he would pay the freight of,
before they went from Japan, and at their return he
would buy the sh ‘p.
We consulted the captain of the ship, with the men,
to know if they were willing to go to Japan; and while
I was doing this, the young man whom, as I said,
my nephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to me, and told me, that he thought
that voyage promised very fair, and that there was a
great prospect of advantage, and he would be glad
if I undertook it ; but that if I would not, and would
give him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I
pleased to order him; that if ever he came to Eng-
- x


land, and I was there, and alive, he would render me
a faithful account of his success, and it should be as
much mine as I pleased.
I was loath to part with him, but considering the
prospect of great advantage, and that he was as likely
to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him
go; but I told him I would consult my partner, and
give him an answer the next day. My partner and I
discoursed about it, and my partner made a most gene-
rous offer. He told me, “ you know it has been an
unlucky ship, and we both resolved not to go to sea
in it again; if your steward will venture the voyage,
I’ll leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him
make the best of it, and if we live to meet in England,
and he meets with success abroad, he shall account
370 aoanvson causes.
the other shall be his own.” ‘
If my partner, who was no way concerned with
my young man, made him such an offer, I could do
no less than offer him the same; and all the ship‘s
company being willing to go with him, we made over
half the shi to him in property, and took a writing
from him, 0 liging him to account for the other; and
.away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant proved
a very honest man to him, protected him at Japan,
and got him a license to come on shore, which the
Europeans in general have not lately obtained, paid
him his freight punctuall , sent him to the Philippines
loaded with Japan and C ina-warcs, and a supercargo
370 aoanvson causes.
brought back European goods again, cloves, and other
spice; and there he was not only paid his freight at a
very good price, but being not willing to sell the shi
then, the merchant furnished him with goods on his
own account; that for some money, and some spices
of his own, which he brought with him, he went back
to the Manillas, to the Spaniards, where he sold his
cargo very well. Here, having gotten a good acquain-
tance at Manilla, he got his shi madea free ship;
and the governor of Manilla hir him to go to Ace.-
pulco, in America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave
im a license to land there, and travel to Mexico, and
to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe with all his
men. He made the voyage to Acapulco very happilg,
and there he sold his ship: and having there also 0 -
tained allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he
found means, somehow or other, to go to Jamaica
with all his treasure, and about eight years after came
to England exceeding rich.
In about four months, there was to be another fair
at that place, and then we might be able to purchase
all sorts of the manufactories of the country, and
ROBINSON canson. 371
quin, that would be to be sold, .and would carry us
and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very
well, and resolved to wait; besides, as our particular
ersons are not obnoxious, so that if any English or
utch ships came thither, perhaps we might have an
opportunity to load our goods, and get a passage to
some place in India nearer home.
Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here;
but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three jour-
neys into the country. \Ve went ten days’ journey
to see the city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing.
The say it has a million of people in it, which I do
not elieve; it is regularly built, the streets all ex-
actly straight, and cross one another in direct lines,
ROBINSON canson. 371
What are their buildings to the palaces and royal
buildings of Europe P W'hat their trade to the uni-
versal commerce of England, Holland, France, and
Spain? What their cities to ours, for wealth, strength,
ROBINSON canson. 371
riety? \Vhat are their ports, with a. few junks and
ROBINSON canson. 371
and powerful navies ? Our city of Londonhas more trade
than all their mighty empire. One English, or Dutch,
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
with, and destroy all the shipping of China. But
the greatness of their wealth, their trade, the power
of their government, and strength of their armies, is
surprising to us ; because, as I have said, considering
them as Pagans, little better than savages, we did not
expect such things among them ; and this is the ad-
vantage with which all their greatness and power are
represented to us; for, as I have said of their ships,
so it may be said of their armies; and all the forces
of their empire, though they were to bring two mill-
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
do nothing but ruin the country and starve them-
selves. If they were to besiege a strong town in Flan-
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
cuirassiers, or French cavalry, would overthrow all
the horse of China ; a million of their foot could not
stand before one embattled body of our infantry, pos-
ted so as not to be surrounded, though they were not
above a thousand in number ; na , thirt German or
E lish foot, and ten thousand I‘l'rench orse, would
fair y beat all the forces of China. And there is not
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
against the batteries and attacks of a Euro anarmy ;
and, at the same time, all the armies of ‘hina could
not take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
arms, but they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain
in going oif: they have powder, but it is of no strength;
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
their arms, skill to attack, nor temper to retreat: and
therefore it seemed strange to me when I came home,
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
and knew that they were a contemptible crowd of ig-
norant, sordid slaves, subjected to a government quali-
372 nonrus'orr causoa.
I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart
of China, about the latitude of thirty degrees north
of the line, for we were returned from Nanquin. I
had a mind to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard
so much of, and Father Simon importuned me to do
it. At length his time of going awa being set, and
the missionary, who was to go with im, being arri-
ved from Macao, it was necessary that we should re-
solve either to go or not: so I referred him to my
partner, and left it wholly to him, who resolved in
the affirmative, and we prepared for our journey.
ROBINSON cnvsos. 373
ROBINSON cnvsos. 373
cultivated ; the husbandry, economy, and the way of
living, all very miserable, though they boast so much
of their industry. The pride of these eople is very
great, and exceeded by nothing but t eir poverty,
which adds to their misery. The roads are well pa-
ved, and ve convenient for travellers; but nothing
was more avgward to me than to see such a haughty,
insolent people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity
and ignorance, for all their famed ingenuity is no
more. Father Simon, and I, used to be very merry
at the heggarly pride of these people; for example,
coming by the house of a country gentleman, about
ten leagues off the city of Nanquin, we had the hon-
our to ride with the master of the house about two
miles : the state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixo-
tism, a mixture of pomp and poverty. The habit of
this greasy Don was very proper for a merry-andrew,
being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trappings of
afool’s coat, such as hanging sleeves, tatfety, and cuts
and slashes almost on every side. It covered a rich
ROBINSON cnvsos. 373
ROBINSON cnvsos. 373
His horse was a lean, starved, hobbling creature, such
as in England might sell for about thirty shillings;
and two slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor
creature along. He had a whip, and he belabourcd
the beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about
the tail; and thus he rode by us with about twelve
servants, going from the city to his country seat, about
half a league before us. \Ve travelled on gently, but
374 nonmsou causes.
as we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh
us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him before his door, eating his repast :
it was a kind of garden, but he was eas to be seen,
and we were given to understand that t e more we
looked on him the better he would be pleased. He
sat under a almetto tree, which effectually shaded
him over the head. He sat lolling back in a great
elbow chair, being a heavy, corpulent man ; his meat
being brought him by two women slaves; he had two
374 nonmsou causes.
accept of, viz. one fed the squire with a s con, and the
other held the dish with one hand, an scraped off
what fell upon his worship’s beard with the other;
while the great fat brute thought it below him to
374 nonmsou causes.
Leaving the poor wretch, we pursued our journey.
I was now light-hr'u'ted, and all my trouble and
perplexity being over, I had no anxious thoughts
about me, which made this journey much the pleasant-
er to me ; nor did any ill accident attend me, only in
the passing or fording a small river, my horse fell,
and made me free of the country, as they call it, that
is to say, threw me in: the place was not deep, but it
wetted me all over. I mention it because it spoiled
my pocket-book, wherein I had set down the names
of several people and places which I had occasion to
remember, and which not taking due care of, the
leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be
read, to my great loss as to the names of some places
which I touched at in this voyage.
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with
me but the youth whom my nephew, the captain,
had given me to attend as a servant, and who proved
ver trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody
wit him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As
for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the
court, we bore his expenses, and, understanding the
language, he acted as interpreter. About a week
after we had arrived, this old pilot told us he had good
news to tell us. I asked him what it was. but it was
some time before we could get it out of him: at last
he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite
and Polish merchants in the city, and they were pre-
paring to set out on their journey, by land, to Mus-
nosnvsou cnoson. , 375
should take the opportunity to go with them, and
perhaps leave him to get back to Macao as he could.
' was overjoyed at this intelligence; and asked him
if it was true. “ Yes," said he, “ I met this morning,
in the street, an old acquaintance of mine, an Arme-
nian, who is among them; he came last from Astracan,
and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I former-
ly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now
resolved to go back with the caravan to Moscow, and
so down the river of Wolga to Astracan.”—-“ Well,”
said I, “ do not be uneasy about being left to go back
alone ; if this be a method for my return to England,
it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all."
We then consulted what was to be done; and I asked
in partner what he thought of the pilot’s news, and
nosnvsou cnoson. , 375
he would do 'ust as I would, for he had settled all his
atfairs so wel at Bengal, and left his effects in such
good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here,
if he could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw,
such as might be worth the carriage, he would go to
England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal
by the compan ’s ships.
Having reso ved upon this, we agreed that if our
Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear
his charges to Moscow, or to England, which be
leased; nor were we to be esteemed over generous
in that part, if we had not rewarded him farther; for
the service he had done us was worth all that, and
more, for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea,
but a broker for us on shore; and his procuring for
us the Japan merchant was some hundreds of ounds
in our pockets. So we consulted about it, an being
very Willing also to have him with us, for he was a
most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed togive
him a quantity of coined gold, which can e to about
376 ROBINSON causon.
us, and to bear his charges, both for himself and
horse, except a horse to carry his goods.
Having settled this among ourselves, we let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had com-
plained of our being like to let him go back alone, and
was now to tell him we were resolved he should not
go back at all: that as we had resolved to go to Eu-
rope with the caravan, we resolved also he should 0
with us, and that we wanted to know his mind. e
shook his head, and said it was a long journey, and
he had no money to carry him thither, nor to subsist
himself when he came thither. We told him we had
resolved to do something for him, to let him see how
sensible we were of the service he had done us; and
then I told him what we had resolved to give him
here, which he might lay out as we would our own,
and that for his expenses, if he would go with us, we
would set him safe ashore either in Muscovy or Eng-
land, at our own charge, except only the carriage of
his goods.
He received the proposal like a man transported,
and told us he would go with us over the whole
world; and so we all prepared for the journey; but
376 ROBINSON causon.
four months before all things were got together. Dur-
ing this time my partner and I disposed of all the
goods we had left, and laid in alarge stock of Chinese
nonrrzson causes. 377
megs, and cloves, and a quantity of other things, four
thousand pounds’ \worth. With these goods we load-
ed eighteen camels, besides those we rode upon, which,
with two or three spare horses, and two horses loaded
with provisions, made us twenty-six camels and horses
in our retinue.
We set out from Pekin at the beginning of Febru-
ary. The company was very great, and made between
three and four hundred horses and camels, and a bun-
dred and twenty men, very well armed, and prepared
for the bands of marauding Tartars. The company
consisted of several nations, such as Muscovites, Li-
nonrrzson causes. 377
Scotchmen, who appeared to be men of great expe-
rience in business, and of very good substance.
\Vhen we had travelled one day’s journey, the
nonrrzson causes. 377
ther, except the servants, to a great council, at which
every one deposited a certain quantity of money to a
common stock, for the necessary expenses of buying
forage on the way, where it was not otherwise to be
had, and for satisfying the guides, getting horses, and
nonrrzson causes. 377
cers to draw us all up, and give the command in case
of attack, which we found needful upon the way.
The road on all this side of the—country is very po-
pulous, and is full of potters and earth-makers, that
is, (people that tempered the earth for China-ware;
an our Portuguese pilot, who had always somethin
to say to make us merry, came sneering to me, an
told me he would show us the greatest rarity in all
the count , and that I should have this to say of Chi-
na, after a the ill-humoured things I had said of it,
that I had seen one thing not to be seen in all the
world beside. I was very importunate to know what
it was: he told me it was a gentleman's house built
with China ware. “ \Vell," said I, “ are not the
materials of their buildings the product of their own
country? and so it is all China ware, is it not F”—
“ No, no,” says he, “ I mean it is a house all made of
China ware, such as you call so in England, or, as it
is called in our country, porcelain.”—“ \Vell," said I,
“such a thing may be. How big is it? Can we carry
it in a box upon a camel ? If we can, we will buy it. '
-—“Upon a camel 1" said the old pilot, “why, there
is a family of thirty Seople live in it.” I‘was then
curious to see it; an when I came to it, I found it
was a house built, as we call it in England, with lath
and plaster, but all the plaster was really China ware,
that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that
makes China ware.
The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was
glazed, and looked very well, erfectly white, and
378 ROBINSON causes.
ngland is painted, and hard as if it had been burn-
ed. Inside, all the walls, instead of Wainscot, were
lined up with hardened and painted tiles, like the little
square tiles we call galley-t1 es in England, all made
378 ROBINSON causes.
with extraordinary variety of colours, mixe with
378 ROBINSON causes.
378 ROBINSON causes.
it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The
378 ROBINSON causes.
378 ROBINSON causes.
of England; the ceilings, and all the plastering work
in the house, were of the same earth;- and the roof
Xaslpovered with tiles of the same, of a deep, shining
lac .
This was a China warehouse indeed, literally to be
called so; and had I not been upon the journey, I
could have stayed some days to examine the particu-
378 ROBINSON causes.
the garden, all paved at the bottom and sides with
ROBINSON causes. 379
formed of the porcelain earth, and burned whole.
As this is one of the singularities of China, so they
may be allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure
they excel in their accounts of it, for they told me
suc incredible things of their performances in crock-
ery—ware, that I care not to relate, knowing it could
not be true. One told me of a workman that made a
ship, with all its tackle, and masts, and sails, in
ROBINSON causes. 379
had told me that he launched it, and made a ‘voyage
to Japan in it, I might have said something to it ; but
I knew that the fellow lied. So I smiled, and said
nothing to it.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the cares
ROBINSON causes. 379
about three shillings; and told me, if it had been
three days’ journey without the wall, as it was three
ROBINSON causes. 379
much, and made me ask pardon the next council day;
so I promised to be more orderly, for I found after-
wards the orders made for keeping altogether were
absolutely necessary for our common safety.
In two days more we passed the great China wall,
ROBINSON causes. 379
very great work it is, going over hills and mountains
in an endless track, where the rocks are impassable,
and the precipices such as no enemy could possibly
enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no
wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is
near a thousand English miles, but that the country
ROBINSON causes. 379
wall bounds, without measuring the windings and
turnings it takes ; it is about four fathoms high, and
as many thick in some places.
After we had passed this mighty well, we began to
ROBINSON causes. 379
380 ROBINSON causoa.
ject to the depredations of the Tartar-s, who rob in
great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by
the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here
380 ROBINSON causoa.
caravan as we travelled; for we saw several troops of
Tartars roving about; but when I came to see them
distinctly, I wondered more that the Chinese empire
could be conquered by such contemptible fellows; for
they are a mere herd, or crowd, of wild fellows, keep-
ing no order, and understanding no discipline.
380 ROBINSON causoa.
380 ROBINSON causoa.
saw them, which was after we entered the wilder part
of the country. Our leader for the day gave leave
for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as the call
it; and what was this but hunting of sheep! ow-
ever, it may be called hunting, too, for the creatures
are the wildest, and swiftest of foot, that ever I saw
of their kind, only they will not runa great way: and
you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for
380 ROBINSON causoa.
and, like true sheep, always keep together when they
380 ROBINSON causoa.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap
to meet with about forty Tartars ; whether they were
hunting mutton as we were, or whether they looked
for another kind of prey, I know not; but as soon as
they saw us, one of them blew a kind of horn very
loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never
heard before, and never care to hear again. We all
supposed this was to call their friends about them;
and so it was, for in less than a quarter of an hour a
380 ROBINSON causoa.
380 ROBINSON causoa.
One of the Scotch merchants of Moscow as soon as
he heard the horn, told us we had nothing to do but
to charge them immediately, without loss of time,
and, drawing us 11 in a line, he asked if we were re-
solved? We told 1him we were ready to follow him.
They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, drawn up
in no order ; but as soon as they saw us advance, they
ROBINSON onusos. 381
seems they mistook not their aim, but their distance,
for their arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so
true an aim, that, had we been about twenty yards
nearer, we must have had several men wounded,
if not killed.
Immediately we halted; and, though it was at a
ROBINSON onusos. 381
for wooden arrows, following our shot full galop, re-
solving to fall in among them sword in hand, for so
our bold Soot that led us directed. He was but a
merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and brav-
ery on this occasion, and yet with such cool courage,
ROBINSON onusos. 381
ROBINSON onusos. 381
our pistolsin their faces, and then drew; but they
ROBINSON onusos. 381
stand made was on our right, where three of them
stood, and by signs called the rest to come back, hav-
ing a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their bows
hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, with-
out asking any one to follow him, galloped up close
to them, and with his fusil knocked one of them off
his horse, killed the second with his istol, and the
third ran awa : and thus ended our ght. But we
had this mis ortune attending it, viz. that all our
mutton in chase got away. We had not a man
killed or hurt ; but as for the Tartars, there
ROBINSON onusos. 381
knew not; but the other party were so frightened
ROBINSON onusos. 381
12011121; upon us.
Vl e were all this while in the Chinese dominion,
and therefore the Tartar-s were not so bold as after-
382 aoarnsou causes.
ert, which held us three days and nights march, and
we were obliged to carry our water with us in great
leather bottles, and to encamp all night, just as they
do in the deserts of Arabia. In passing this wilder-
382 aoarnsou causes.
we saw, two or three times, little parties of the Tar-
tors, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs,
and to have no design upon us.
\Ve travelled near a month after this, the ways
382 aoarnsou causes.
ions of the Emperor of China, but lay for the most
382 aoarnsou causes.
of the incursions of the Tartars. When we came to
one of these towns (it was about two days and a half ’s
'ourney before we were to come to the city of Naum,)
lwanted to buy a came], of which there are lenty
to be sold all the way u on that road, and of orses
also, such as they are, ecause of so many caravans
coming that way, they are very often wanted.
person that I spoke to, to get me a camel would have
gone and fetched it for me, but I, like a fool, must be
382 aoarnsou causes.
was about two miles out of the village, where they
ke t the horses and camels feeding under a guard.
I walked it on foot, with m 01 pilot in company,
and a Chinese, being very esirous, forsooth, of a
little variety. When we came to this place, it was a
low, marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall,
piled up d , without mortar or earth among it, like
a park, wi a little guard of Chinese soldiers at the
door. Having bought a camel, and agreed for the
price, I came away, and the Chinese man that was
with me led the camel, when on a sudden came up
382 aoarnsou causes.
fellow, and took the camel from him, while the other
three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us,
as it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me
I
1
but my sword, which could but ill defend me against
ROBINSON causes. 383
short upon my drawing my sword (for they are errant
cowards,) but a second coming up on my left, gave
me a blow on the head, which I never felt till after-
wards, and wondered, when I came to myself, what
was the matter with me, and where I was, for he laid
ROBINSON causes. 383
the Portuguese (so Providence, unlocked for, directs
deliverance from dangers, which to us are unfore-
seen,) had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew
nothing of, nor the Tartars neither, if they had, I
suppose they would not have attacked us. But
cowards are always boldest when there is no danger.
The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the follow that had struck me, and
laying hold of his arm with one hand, and pulling him
down by main force a little towards him with the
other, he shot him in the head, and laid him dead on
the s ot: he then immediately stepped up to him
who ad stopped us, as I said, and before he could
come forward again (for it was all done, as it were, in
a moment,) made a blow at him with a scimitar,
which he always wore, but, missing the man, out his
horse in the side of the head, out one of his ears off by
the root, and a slice down the side of his face. The
poor beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to
e governed by his rider, though the fellow sat well
ROBINSON causes. 383
ilot’s reach, at some distance, rising upon his hind
egs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had
lost the camel, but he had no weapon ; however, see-
ing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen upon him,
he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly, ill-favoured
weapon he had by his side, something like a pole-axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him,
and made shift to knock his Tartarian brains out with
it. But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with
384 aonrnson canson.
384 aonrnson canson.
stock still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work
to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar
saw the pistol, whether he supposed it to be the same,
or another, I know not, but away he scoured, and left
my pilot a complete victory.
By this time I was a little awake, and I wondered
where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what
was the matter; in a word, a few moments after, as
sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not know
where; I clapped my hand to my head, and took it
away all bloody, then I felt my head ache, and then,
in another moment, memory returned, and every thing
was present to me again. I jum ed upon my feet
instantl , and got hold of m swor , but saw no ene-
mies. found a Tartar lie ead, and his horse stand-
ing very quietly b him; and looking farther I saw
my champion an deliverer, who had been to see
what the Chinese had done, coming back with his
hanger in his hand. The old man seeing me on my
feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a
great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been
killed, and seeing me all bloody would see how I was
hurt ; but it was not much, being only what we call
384 aonrnson canson.
great inconvenience from the blow.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory,
for we lost a camel and gained a horse: but that
which was remarkable, when we came back to the
village, the man demanded to be paid for the camel,
for I did not give him the money when I bought it.
I dis uted it, and it was brought to a hearing before
the hinese judge of the place, that is to say, in
English, we went before a Justice of the peace. He
acted with a cat deal of prudence and impartiality,
and, having eard both sides, he gravely asked the


Chinese man, that went with me to buy the camel,
whose servant he was: “ I am no servant,” said he,
“ but went with the stranger." “At whose request ‘f"
said the justice. “At the stranger’s request,” said
he. “\Vhy then,” said the justice, “you were the
stranger's servant for the time, and the camel being-
delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and.
he must pay for it.” I confess the thing was so clear
that I had not a word to say, but paid willingly for
the camel.
The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese em-
aonmsorr causes. 385
aonmsorr causes. 385
all the Tartars in Karakathy, which, I believe are
some millions, could not batter down the walls with
their bows and arrows: but to call it strong, if it were
attacked with cannon, would be to make those who
understood it laugh at you. .
We wanted, as I have said, above two days’ jour
ney of this city, when messengers were sent expres
to every part of the road, to tell all travellers and ca-
ravans to halt till they had a guard sent to them, for
that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles be-
yond the city.
This was V813? bad news to travellers; however, it
was carefully one of the governor, and we were
very glad to hear we should have a guard. Accor-
dingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our left, and
three hundred more of the city of Naum, and with
those we advanced boldly. The three hundred sol-
diers from Naum marched in our front, the two hun-
dred in our rear, and our men on each side of our
camels, with our baggage, and the whole caravan in
our centre. In this order, and well prepared for
battle, we thought ourselves a. match for the whole
ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared;
Y
but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite
another thing.
It was early one morning, when marching from a
a little well situated town, called Changu, we had a
river to ass, where we were obliged to fe , and
had the artars had any intelligence, then been
the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being
over, the rear guard was behind; but they did not
appear there.
About three hours after, when we were entered
386 nosnwson causes.
behold, by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at hand; and they were at hand indeed,
for they came on upon the s ur. The Chinese, our
guard in the front, who h talked so hi the day
efore, began to stagger, and the soldiers grequcntly
looked behind them, which is a certain sign, in a
soldier, that he is just ready to rim away. My old
pilot was of in mind, and being near me, he called
out “ Seignior nglese," said be, “those fellows must
be encouraged, or they will ruin us all, for if the
Tartars come on, they will never stand it." “ I am
of your mind," said I, “but what must be done ?"
386 nosnwson causes.
386 nosnwson causes.
386 nosnwson causes.
but without it they will every man turn his back."
Immediately I rode up to our leader and told him,
386 nosnwson causes.
386 nosnwson causes.
and the rest made a line of reserve; and so we march-
ed, leaving the last two hundred men to make another
body b themselves, and to guard the camels, only
that, i need were, they should send a hundred men to
386 nosnwson causes.
In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumera-
ble company they were; how many we could not
tell, but ten thousand we thought was the least. A
aosmsorr causes. 3S7
traversing the ground in front of our line, an as we
found them within gun shot, our leader ordered two
wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on
each wing with their shot, which was done: but they
went off, and I suppose went back to give an account
of the reception they were likely to meet with; and
indeed that salute clogged their stomachs, for they
I immediately halted, stood awhile to consider of it,
and wheeling off to the left, they gave over the design,
and said no more to us for that time, which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very
indifferent for a battle with such a number.
Two days after this, we came to the city of Nauru.
We thanked the governor for his care oi us, and
collected to the value of one hundred crowns, or
thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to
guard us: and here we rested one day. This is a
arrison indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers
ept here; but the reason of it was, that formerly
the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them than they
do now, the Muscovites having abandoned that part
of the country (which lies west from the city, for
aosmsorr causes. 3S7
use, and more especially, being so very remote, and so
aosmsorr causes. 3S7
had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, pro-
perly so called.
After this we passed several great rivers, and two
dreadful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days
passing over, and on the thirteenth of April we came
to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I think
aosmsorr causes. 3S7
be called, that belonged to the czar of Muscovy, was
called Argun, being on the west side of the river
aosmsorr causes. 3S7
that I was now arrived in, as I called it, a Christian
country, or, at least, in a country governed by Chris-
tians; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion,
but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such the
pretend to be, and are very devout in their way. t
would certainly occur to any man who travels the
world as I have done, and who had any power of re-
388 noamsox causos.
art of the world where the name of God and of a Re-
eemer is known and worshipped.
I saluted the brave Scotch merchant I mentioned
388 noamsox causos.
taking him by the hand, I said to him, “Blessed be
God, we are once again come among Christians l”
He smiled, and answered, “Do not rejoice too soon,
countryman, these Muscovites are but an odd sort of
Christians, and but for the name of it, you may see
very little of the substance for some months farther
of our journe .
“ Well,” said I, “but still it is better than Pagan-
ism, and worshipping of devils.” “Why, I’ll tell
you,” said he, “exce t the Russian soldiers in gar-
risons, and a few of t e inhabitants of the cities upon
the road, all the rest of this country for above a
thousand miles farther, is inhabited b the worst, and
most ignorant of Pagans ;” and so in eed we found it.
We were now launched into the greatest piece of
solid earth, if I understand anything of the surface of
the globe, that is to be found in any part of the world.
We had, at least, twelve hundred miles to the sea,
eastward ; we had, at least, two thousand to the
bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and almost three
thousand miles, if we left that sea, and went on west
388 noamsox causos.
thousand miles to the Indian or Persia sea, south;
and habout eight hundred miles to the Frozen Sea,
nort .
We new advanced from the river Arguna by easy
and moderate journeys, and were very visib y ob-
liged to the care, the czar of Muscovy has taken, to
\
have cities and towns built in as many places as it is
possible to place them, where his soldiers keep gar-
rison, somethin like the stationary soldiers laced
by the Romans 1n the remotest countries of their em-
pire, some of which, I had read, were particularly
placed in Britain, for the securit of commerce, and
or the lodging of travellers, an thus it was here:
for wherever we came, though at these towns and
stations the garrisons and governors were Russians,
and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were
nonmson causes. 389
sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven.
Some instances of this we met with in the country
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite do-
minions, and a city of Tartars and Russians together,
called Norzinskoy, in which the space is a continued
desert or forest, which cost us twenty days to travel
over it. In a village near the last of those laces I
had the curiosity to go and see their way 0 living,
which is most insufferable. They had, I suppose, a
nonmson causes. 389
old stump of a tree, an idol, made of wood, frightful
as the devil, it had a head certainly not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw,
ears as big as goat's horns, and as high, eyes as big
as a crown piece, a nose like a crooked ram's horn,
and a mouth extended four cornered, like that of a
lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot’s under
nonmson causes. 389
can suppose; its upper garment was of sheepskins,
with the wool outward, a. great Tartar bonnet on the
head, with two horns growing through it. It was
about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or
any proportion of parts. This scarecrow was set up
at the outside of the village, and when I came near to
it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, whether
men or women I could not tell, for they make no dis-
tinction by their habits, either by body or head; these
390 ROBINSON causes.
shapeless wood. I saw no motion among them, any
more than if they had been logs of wood, like their
390 ROBINSON causes.
when I came a little nearer, they started up upon their
feet, and raised a howling cry, as if it had been so
many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked awa as if
they were displeased at our disturbing them, X little
we 05 from this monster, and at the door of a tent,
or ut, made all of sheep-skins, and cow-skins, dried,
stood three butchers. I thought they were such ; for
when I came nearer to them, I found they had long
knives in their hands, and in the middle of the tent
appeared three sheep killed, and one young bullock,
390 ROBINSON causes.
seless log of an idol, and these three men priests, be-
longing to it; and the seventeen prostrated wretches
were the people who brought the offering, and were
making their prayers to that stock.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and
this brutish worship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was
at any thing in my life; to see God’s most glorious
and best creature, to whom he had granted so many
advantages, even by creation, above the rest of the
works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul,
and that soul adorned with faculties and ca abilities
adapted both to honour his Maker, and be onoured
by im ; I say, to see it sunk and degenerated to a
degree so stupid, as to prostrate itself before a fright-
ful nothing, a mere imaginary object, dressed up by
themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their
own coutrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags,
and that this should be the eifect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself,
who, envying to his Maker the homage and adoration
of his creatures, had deluded them into such gross
surfeiting, sordid, and brutish things, as one would
think should shock nature itself.
In my rage, I rode up to the monster, and with my
sword cut the bonnet that was on its head in two
in the middle, so that it hung down by one of the
horns; and one of our men that was with me took
hold of the shee -skin that covered it, and pulled at
it, when, behol , a most hideous outcry and howlinv
ran through the village, and two or three hundred
people came about my ears, so that I was glad to scour
or it, for we saw some had bows and arrows, but I
resolved to visit them again.
Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which
was about four miles off, in order to provide some
horses which they wanted, several of the horses
having been lamed and jaded with the badness of
the way, and our long march over the last desert;
so we had some leisure here to put my plan in ex-
ecution. I communicated my design to the Scotch
merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I had had
nosmson causal-5. 391
and with what indignation I had since thought that
human nature had been so degenerate I told him I
nosmson causal-5. 391
armed, to go with me, to destroy that vile abominable
idol, to let them see that it had no power to help itself,
and consequently could not be an object of worship,
or to be prayed to, much less help them that offered
nosmson causal-5. 391
nosmson causal-5. 391
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go
nosmson causal-5. 391
fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us.
So he brought me his comrade, a Scotchman, whom
he called Captain Richardson, and I gave him a full
account of what I had seen, and also of what I in~
tended, and he told me readin he would go with me,
if it cost him his life. So we three agreed to go,
with my man servant. I had indeed proposed it to
my partner but he declined it ; saying he was ready
to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence, but that this was an adventure quite out
of his way.
The Scotch merchant brought me a Tartar robe,
or gown of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow
and arrows, and had provided the same for himself
and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us,
should not be able to know us. All that night we
spent in mixing u some combustible matter with
aquavitae, gunpow er, and such materials as we
could get; and, having a good quantity of tar in a
pot, the next night we set out upon our expedition.
\Ve came to the place about eleven o‘clock at
night, and found that the people had not the least
jealousy of danger attending their idol. The night
was cloudy, et the moon gave us light enough to
see that thei ol stood just in the same posture and
place it did before. The people seemed to be at rest,
only that in the great hut, or tent, as we call it,
where we saw the three priests, whom we mistook
for butchers, we saw a light; and going up close to
the door, we heard people talking, as if there were
392 noenrsorr causes.
392 noenrsorr causes.
out immediately, and run up to the place to rescue it
from the destruction we intended for it ; and what to
do with them we knew not; once we thought of car-
392 noenrsorr causes.
when we came to handle it we found it too bulky
for our carriage, so we were at a loss again. The
392 noenrsorr causes.
hut, and knocking the creatures that were there on_
the head when they came out; but I could not join
with that; I was against killing them if it was pos-
sible to be avoided. “Well, then," said the Scotch
merchant, I‘ll tell you what we will do: we will try
to take them prisoners, tie their hands, and make
them stand still and see their idol destroyed.

As it happened, we had twins or packthread
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
together with, so we resolved to attack these people
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
thing we did, we knocked at the door: when one of
the priests coming to the door, we immediately seized
upon him, stopped his mouth and tied his hands he—
hind him, and led him to the idol, where we gagged
him, that he might not make a noise; we tied his feet
also together and left him on the ground.
Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that
another would come out to see what the matter was ;
but we waited so long and nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two
more, and we served them gust in the same manner;
when, going back, we foun two more were come out
to the door, and a third stood behind them within the
door. we seized the two, and immediately tied them,
when the third stepping back, and cryi out, the
Scotch merchant went in after him, and t in out a
composition we had made, that would only smo e and
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
B that time the other Scotchman and my man,
ta ing charge of the two men already bound, and
tied together b the arm, led them away to the idol,
and left them t ere, making haste back to us. When
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we
threw in a small leather bag of another kind, which
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
there were but four people left, who, it seems,
were two women and two men, and. as we sup-
posed, had been about some of their diabolical sacri-
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
We took them, bound them as we had the others,
and all without any noise. When we had done this,
we carried them all together to the idol. When we
ROBINSON cnvsos. 393
daubed him all over, and his robes also, with tar, and
such other stutf as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes, and ears,
and mouth, full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up
304 nonmsos causes.
sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
304 nonmsos causes.
any thing else to help to burn him, when my man
remembered that by the tent or hut, where the men
were, there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw
or rushes I do not remember: away he and one of
the Scotehmen ran, and fetched their arms full of
that. When we had done this, we took all our prison-
ers, and brought them, having untied their feet and
ungagged their mouths, and made them stand 11
and set them just before their monstrous idol, and
304 nonmsos causes.
of an hour, or thereabouts, till the powder in the
eyes, and mouth, and ears, of the idol, blew up, and,
as we could perceive, had split and deformed the
shape of it: and, in a word, till we saw it burn into
a mere block or log of wood, and then setting the
dry forage to it, we found it would soon be quite con-
sumed, so we bcgan to think of going away; but the
Seotchman said, “No, we must not go: for these
poor deluded wretches will all throw themselves into
304 nonmsos causes.
resolved to stay till all the forage was burned down
too, and then we came away, and left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-
travellers, exceeding busy in getting ready for our
journey, nor could any man suggest that we had been
any w ere but in our beds, as travellers might be sup-
304 nonmsos causes.
’s journey.
ut it did not end so; for the next day came a
great multitude of the country people, not only of
this village, but of a hundred more, for aught I know,
to the town gates, and, in a most outrageous manner,
demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor, for
the insulting their priests, and burning their great
Cham-Chi-Thaungu, such a hard name they gave the
monstrous creature they worshipped. The people of
nosnzson causes. 395
they said the Tartars were no less than thirty thou-
sand, and that, in a few days more, they would be one
hundred thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to ap-
pease them, and gave them all the good words ima-
ginable. He assured them he knew nothing of it,
and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad; that it could not be from any body there;
and if they would let him know who it was, they
should be exem larin punished. They returned
haughtil , that all the country revereneed the great
Cham-C i-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no
mortal would have dared to offer violence to his
image but some Christian miscreants, so they called
them; and they therefore denounced war against
him and all the Russians, who, they said, were mis-
creants and Christians. The governor gave them
still all the good words he could; at last he told
them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that
morning, and, perhaps, it was some of them who had
nosnzson causes. 395
with that, he would send after them to inquire into it.
This seemed to appease them a little, and accordingly
the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was, intimating withal, that if
any of our caravan had done it, they should make
their escape: but that, whether they had done it or
no, weshould make all the haste forward that was
possible; and that, in the mean time, he Would keep
them in play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the governor. So the
captain of the caravan pushed us on for two days and


two nights, without any considerable stop, and then
we lay at a village called Plothus; nor did we make
any long stop here, but hastened on towards Jara-
wena, another of the czar of Muscovy’s colonies, and
where we expected we should be safe.
It was the second day’s march from Plothus, that,
by the clouds of dust behind us, at a great distance,
some of our peo le began to be sensible that we were
pursued. We ad entered another desert, and had
passed by a great lake, called Schaks Oser, when we
perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake to the north, we travelling
West. We observed they went away west as we did,
but had su posed we would have taken that side of
the lake, w ereas we very happily took the south
side; and, in two days more, we saw them not, for
they, believing we were still before them, pushed on
till they came to the river when it passes farther
north ; but where we came to it, we found it narrow
and fordable.
The third day they either found their mistake, or
had intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us
towards the dusk of evening. We had, to our great
satisfaction, just pitched upon a place for our camp,
which was very convenient for the night; for as we
were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of
39‘ aonmson causes.
no towns to lodge at, and indeed ex cted none but
the city of J arawena, which we be yet two days’
march to. The desert, however, had some few woods
in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all into
the great river Udda. It was in a narrow strait, be-
tween two small, but very thick woods, that we itch-
ed our little camp for that night, expecting to, e at-
tacked in the night. We took care to make our front
as strong as we could, by placing our packs, and our
camels and horses, all in a line on the inside of the
river, and we felled some trees in our rear.
nonnzsox causes. 397
situation. They did not come on us like thieves, as
we expected, but sent three messengers to us, to de-
mand the men to be delivered to them that had
abused their priests, and burned their god Cham-
nonnzsox causes. 397
and upon this, they said, they would go away, and
do us no farther harm, otherwise they would burn us
nonnzsox causes. 397
accused us, except me and my accomplices, but we
kept our secret. The leader of the caravan sent
Word he was well assured it was not done by any of
our camp; that we were peaceable merchants, tra-
velling on our business; that we had done no harm
to them, or to any one else; and that therefore they
must look farther for their enemies who had injured
them, for we were not the people; so he desired
them not to disturb us, for if they did, we should de-
nonnzsox causes. 397
with this, and a great crowd of them came down in
the morning; and, after looking at us for a while,
nonnzsox causes. 397
nonnzsox causes. 397
any mischief; and I do not remember that one man
of us was hurt.
Some time after this, we saw them move a little to
our right, and expected them on the rear; when a
cunning fellow, a Cossack, of Jarawena, in the pay of
the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the caravan,
said to him, “I‘ll go send all these eople away to
Sibeilka." This was a city four or ve days’ jour-
ney, at least, to the south, and rather behind us. So
he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on horse-
back, he rides away from our rear directly, as it were,
back to Nortzinskoy: after this, he takes a great cir-
cuit about, and comes to the army of the Tartar-s, as if
he had been sent express to tell them a long story,
that the people who had burned their Chem-Chi-
Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of
miscreants, as he called them, that is to say, Chris-
tians; and that they were resolved to burn the god
Schal-Izar, belonging to the Tonguese.
As this fellow was a mere Tartar, and spoke their
language, they believed all he said: away they drove
oil" in a great hurry to Sibeilka; and, in less than
three hours, they were entirely out of sight. So we
passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there
was a garrison of Muscovites; and there we rested
398 nonmson causoa.
thehlast day’s march, and with want of rest in the
nig t.
From this city we had a frightful desert, which
was twenty-three days’ march. We furnished our
selves with some tents here, for the better accommo
dating us in the night ; and the leader of the caravan
procured sixteen carriages, or waggons, of the coun-
try, for carrying our water and provisions ; and these
carriages were our defence every night round our
little camp; so that had the Tartars appeared, unless
they had een very numerous indeed, they would not
have been able to hurt us. In this desert we saw
neither house nor tree, nor scarce a bush. We saw,
indeed, abundance of sable hunters; these are all
Tartars, of the Mogul Tartary, of which this country
is a part, and they frequently attack small caravans,
but we saw no numbers of them together.
After we were out of this desert, and had travelled
two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city or
station, on the great river J anezay. This river, they
told us, parted Europe from Asia, though our map-
makers, as I am told, do not agree to it. However, it
is certainly the eastern boundary of the ancient Si-
beria, which now makes a province only of the Mus-
covite empire, but itself equal in bigness to the
whole empire of Germany. And yet here I observed
ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the
Muscovite garrisons. The whole countrybetween the
river Oby and the river J anezay is as entirely pa-
gan, and the people as barbarous, as the remotest of
the Tartars; nay, as any nation, for aught I know,
in Asia or America. I also found, which I observed
to the Muscovite governors whom I had opportunity
to converse with, that the Pagans are not much the
wiser, or the nearer Christianity, for being under the
Muscovite government ; which they acknowledged
was true enough; but they said it was none of their
business; that if the czar expected to convert his Si-
berian, or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should be
done by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers;
and they added, with more sincerity than I expected,
that they found it was not so much the concern of
their monarch to make the people Christians, as it
was to make them subjects,
From this river to the great river Oby we crossed a.
wild, uncultivated country; I cannot say it is a bar-
ren soil; it is only barren of people and good manage-
ment. What inhabitants we found in it were all pa-
gans, except such as are sent among them from Rus-
sia; for this is the country on both sides the river
Ob , whither the Muscovite criminals that are not put
to eath, are banished, and from whence it is next to
im ossible they should ever come away.
e now came to Tobolski, the capital city of Si-
beria. Having been seven months on our journey,
and winter coming on apace, my partner and I called
a council about our particular affairs, in which we
found it proper, considering that we were bound for
England, and not for Moscow, to consider how to
dispose of ourselves. They told us of sledges and
rein-deer to carry us over the snow in winter time,
by which means the Russians travel more in the
winter than they can in summer; because in these
sledges they are able to run night and day; the snow
being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by
which the hills and vales, the rivers and lakes, are
all smooth and hard as a stone: and they run upon
the surface without any regard to what is underneath.
But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of
this kind; I was bound to England, not to Moscow,
and my route lay two ways ; either I must go on as
the caravan went, till I came to Jeroslow, and then
go either by sea or land to Dantzic, where I might
probably sell my China. goods to good advantage; or
must leave the caravan at a little town on the
Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water, to
Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping,
either to England, Holland, or Hamburg.
Now to go any of these journeys in the winter
would have been preposterous; for, as to Dantzic,
the Baltic would be frozen u ,and I could not get
passage; and to goup by lan in those countries was
far less safe than among the Mogul Tar-tars; like-
wise to go to Archangel in October, all the ships
would be gone from thence, and even the merchants,
who dwell there in summer, retire south to Moscow
in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I
should have nothing but extremity of cold to en-
counter, with a scarcity of provisions, and must lie
there in an empty town all the winter. So that, upon
the whole, I thought it much my better way to let
the caravan go, and to make provision to winter
where I was, viz. at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the lati-
tude of sixty degrees, where I was sure of three
things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty of
rovision, such as the country afforded, a warm
ouse, with fuel enough. and excellent company.
I was now in a quite different climate from my be-
loved island, where I never felt cold except when I
had my ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to
400 noarnson causou.
but without doors, and for my necessity in dressing
my food, 5m. New I made me three good vests, with
a"-
large robes or gowns over them to hang down to the
feet, and button close to the wrists, and all these lined
nonmsz causes. 401
As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly dislike
nonmsz causes. 401
nonmsz causes. 401
out, always kept the air in the room cold as the cli-
mate. But taking an apartment in a good house in
the town, I ordered a chimney to be built, like a fur-
nace, in the centre of six several rooms, like a stove,
the funnel to carry the smoke went up one way, the
nonmsz causes. 401
nonmsz causes. 401
as they heat the bagnios in England.
B this means we had always the same climate in
all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and
how cold soever it was without, it was always warm
nonmsz causes. 401
moded with any smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should
be possible to meet with good company here, in a
country so barbarous as that of the most northerly
rts of Europe, near the frozen ocean, and within
ut a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. But this
being the country where the state criminals of Mus—
covy, as I observed before, are all banished, this city
was full of noblemen, princes, gentlemen, colonels,
and, in short, all degrees of the nobility, gentry, sol-
diery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here were the fa-
nonmsz causes. 401
the 01 general Robostisky, and several other persons
of note, and some ladies.
By means of my Scotch merchant, whom, never-
theless, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance
with several of these gentlemen, and some of them of
nonmsz causes. 401
of the banished ministers of state belonging to the czar
of Muscovy. 1 have not room to give a full account
I r
of the most agreeable conversation I had with this last
mentioned truly great man; in all which he showed
that his mind was so inspired with a superior know-
ledge of things, so supported by religion, as well as by
a vast share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world
was really as much as he could express, and he was
always the same to the last, as will appear in the story
I am going to tell.
I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful
winter I thought it to be; the cold was so intense,
that I could not so much as look abroad without
being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my
402 ROBINSON causes.
and two for sight. The little daylight we had was,
402 ROBINSON causes.
hours a day, and six at most, only that the snow
lying on the ground continuall , and the weather
clear, it was never quite dark. ur horses were kept
(or rather starved) under ground; and, as for our
servants (for we hired servants here to 100k after our
horses and ourselves,) we had now and then their
402 ROBINSON causes.
should mortify, and fall off.
It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and the
402 ROBINSON causes.
eer, dried and cured in the season; good bread
402 ROBINSON causes.
402 ROBINSON causes.
which is a pretty good beef. All the stores of pro-
visions for the winter are laid up in the summer, and
well cured. Our drink was water, mixed with aqua.-
vitea, instead of brandy; and, for a treat, mead in-
stead of wine, which, however, they have exceeding
ood. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
equently brought us in fresh venison, very fat and
402 ROBINSON causes.
much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea,
with which we treated our friends; and we lived very
cheerfully and well. all things considered.
It was now March, and the days grown consider-
ably longer, and the weather at least tolerable; so the
other travellers began to prepare sledges to carry them
over the snow, and. to get things ready to be going;
ROBINSON causes. 403
changel, and not for Muscovy on the Baltic, I made
no motion, knowing very well that the ships from the
south do not set out for that part of the world till
May or June, and that if I was there at the be-
ginning of August, it would be as soon as any ships
would be ready to go away: and, therefore, I say, I
made no haste to be gone, as others did; in a word,
I saw a great man people, nay, all the travellers, go
away before me. It seems every year they go from
thence to Moscow for trade, viz. to my furs, and
buy necessaries with them, which they bring back to
furnish their ships; also others went on the same
errand to Archangel, but then the also, being to
come back again above eight hun red miles, went
all out before me.
In short, about the latter end of May I began to
make all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this,
it occurred to me, that seeing all these people were
banished by the czar of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet
when they came there, were left at liberty to go
whither they would, why did they not then go away
ROBINSON causes. 403
and began to examine what should hinder them
from making such an attempt.
But my wonder was over when I entered upon that
subject with the person I have mentioned, who an—
ROBINSON causes. 403
place where we are; and, secondly, the condition we
are in, especially,” said he, “ the generality of the
people who are banished hither. We are surrounded,”
said he, “ with stronger things than bars and bolts:
on the north side is an unnavigable ocean. where ship
never sailed, and boat never swam; neither, if we
had both, could we know whither to go with them.
Every other way,” said be, “we have above one
thousand miles to pass through the czar’s own do-
minions, and by ways utterly impassable, except by
the roads made by the government, and throug the
towns garrisoned by his troops; so that we could nei-
ther pass undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any
other way, so that it is in vain to attempt it.”
I was silenced indeed at once, and found that they
were in prison, every jot as secure as if they had
been locked up in the castle of Moscow. However,
it came into my thoughts that I might certainly be
made an instrument to procure the escape of this ex-
cellent person, and that it was very easy for me to
carry him away, there being no guard over him in
the country; and as I was not going to Moscow, but
to Archangel, and that I went in the nature of a ca-
ravan, by which I was not obliged to lie in the sta-
tionary towns in the desert, but could encamp every
night where I would, he might easily pass uninter~
rupted to Archangel, where I would immediately
secure him on board an English or Dutch ship, and
carry him 05 along with me; and, as to his subsist-
ence, and other particulars, that should be my care,
till he could better supply himself.
He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestl
on me all the while I spoke; na , I could see in his
very face that what I said put hlS spirits into an ex-
ceeding ferment: his colour frequently changed, his
$04 nonrusou cavson.‘
be even perceived in his countenance ' nor could he
immediately answer me, when I had done, and, as it
were, expected what he would say to it, and after he
had paused a little he embraced me, and said, “ How
unhappy are we, unguided creatures as we are, that
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares
to us, and we are made the tempters of one another!
My dear friend,” said he; “your odor is so sincere
has such kindness in it, it is so disinterested in itsele
and is so calculated for my advantage, that I must
have very little knowledge of the world if I did not
both wonder at it, and acknowledge the obligation l
have upon me to you for it. But did on believe I
was sincere in what I have so often sai to you of my
contempt of the world ? Did you believe I spoke my
very soul to you, and that I had really attained that
degree of felicity here that had placed me above all
that the world could give me, or do for me? Did
you believe I was sincere, when I told you I would
not go back, if I was recalled, even to be all that once
I was in the court, and with the favour of the czar my
master? Did ou believe me, my friend, to be an
honest man, or id you think me to be a boasting hypo-
crite ?” Here he stopped, as if he would hear what I
would say; but indeed I soon after perceived that he
stopped because his spirits were in motion, his heart
was full of struggles, and he could not go on. I was,
. I confess, astonished at the thing, as well as the man.I
and I used some arguments with him to urge him to
set himself free ; that he ought to look upon this as a
door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a
summons by Providence, who has the care and good
disposition of all events, to do himself good, and to
render himself useful in the world.
He had by this time recovered himself. “ How do
you lmow, sir,” said he, warmly, “but that, instead
of a summons from Heaven, it may be a feint of
another instrument, representing in all the alluring
colours to me, the show of felicity as a deliverance,
which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly
to my ruin? Here I am, free from the temptation of
returning to my former miserable greatness ; there I
am not sure but that all the seeds of pride, ambition,
avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in nature,
may revive and take root, and, in a word, again
overwhelm me, and then the happy prisoner, whom
you see master of his soul‘s liberty, shall be the
miserable slave of his own senses, enjoying all per-
sonal liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed
406 aonnzson cnvson.
rather than purchase a show of freedom at the ex-
pense of the iberty of my reason, and at the expense
of the future happiness which I now have in view,
but shall then, I fear, quickly lose sight of ; for I am
406 aonnzson cnvson.
406 aonnzson cnvson.
any man. 0 be not my friend, and my tempter both.
together."
If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now,
and stood silent looking at him, and indeed admired
what I saw: the struggle in his soul was so great,
that, though the weather was extremely cold, it put
him into amost violent sweat, and I found he wanted
to give vent to his mind: so I said a word or two,
that I would leave him to consider of it. and wait on
him again, and then I withdrew to my a artment.
About two hours after, I heard someb y at, or
near, the door of my room, and I was going to o n
the door; but he had opened it and came in. “ IIy
dear friend," said he, “you had almost overset me,
but I am recovered. Do not take it ill that I do not
close with your offer. I assure you it is not for want
of a sense of the kindness of it in you, and I came to
make the most sincere acknowledgement of it to you;
but I be e I have got the victory over myself.”
406 aonnzson cnvson.
that you do not resist the call of heaven."—“Sir.”
said he, “if it had been from Heaven, the same ower
406 aonnzson cnvson.
406 aonnzson cnvson.
406 aonnzson cnvson.
parting, that you shall leave me an honest man still,
though not a free man.” I had nothing to do but to
acquiesce and make professions to him of my having
no end in it, but a sincere desire to serve him. He
embraced me very passionately, and assured me he
was sensible of that, and should always acknowledge
nonnvson causon. 407
of sables, too much indeed for me to accept from a
man in his circumstances, and I would have avoided
them, but he would not be refused.
The next morning I sent my servant to his lord-
ship, with a small present of tea, two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which
did not weigh above six ounces; but were far short
of the value of his sables, which indeed, when I came
to England, I found worth near two hundred unds.
He accepted the tea, and one piece of the amask,
nonnvson causon. 407
upon it, of the gapan coinage, which I found he toog
for the rarity of it, but would not'take any more;
and he sent word by my servant, that he desired to
speak with me.
- \Vhen I came to him, he told me that I knew what
had passed between us, and he ed I would not move
nonnvson causon. 407
nonnvson causon. 407
kindness enough to offer the same to another person
that he would name to me, in whom he had a great
share of concern. I told him that I could not say
I inclined to do so much for any one but himself, for
whom I had a particular value, and should have been
glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance.
However if he would please to name the erson to
me, I would ive him my answer, and oped he
would not be is leased with me, if he was with m
answer. He tol me it was his only son, who, thong
I had not seen him, yet was in the same condition
with himself, and above two hundred miles from him
_on the other side the Oby ; but that, if I consented,
he would send for him. I made no hesitation, but
told him I would do it. So he sent away the next
day for his son, and in about twenty days he came
back with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses
loaded with very rich furs, and which in the whole
amounted to a very great value.
His servants brought the horses into the town, but
left the young lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father
resented him to me; and, in short, we concerted
ere the manner of our travelling, and every thing
proper for the journey. I had bought a considerable
quanti of sablcs, black fox-skins, tine ermines. and
such ot er furs that are very rich, in exchange for
some of the goods I had brought from China: in par-
ticular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold
the greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at
Archangel, for a much better price than I could have
got at London.
It was the beginning of June when I left this re-
mote place; a city, I believe, little heard of in the
world, and indeed it is so far out of the road of com-
merce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were nowa very small caravan, being only
thirty horses and camels in all; and all of them as-
sed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor
of eleven of them. It was most natural, also, that I
should take more servants with me than I had before,
and the young lord passed for m steward; what
great man I passed for myself, I 0w not, neither
did it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst
and largest desert to ass over that we had met with
in all the journey, in eed I call it the worst, because
the way was deep in some places, and very uneven in
others; the best we had to sa for it was, that we
thought we had no troops of artars and robbers to
fear, and that they never came on this side of the ri-
ver Oby, or, very seldom ; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite
servant, or rather a Siberian servant, who was er-
feotly acquainted with the country, and who 1 us
by private roads, so that we avoided coming into the
principal towns and cities, upon the great road, such
as Tumen, Soloy-Kamaskoy, and several others, be-
cause the Muscovite garrisons which are kept there
are very curious and strict in their observation upon
travellers, and searching lest any of the banished 1'-
sons of note should make their escape that way mto
Muscovy : but by this means, as we were kept out of
the cities, so our whole journey was a desert, and we
were obliged to encamp, and-lie in our tents, when
we might have had very good accommodation in the
cities on the way. This the young lord was so sen-
sible of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad when
we came to several cities on the way, but lay abroad
himself with his servant in the woods, and met us
always at the appointed places.
We were just entered Europe, having passed the
river Kama, which, in these parts, is the boundary
nosmsos causes. 409
European side, was Soloy-Kamaskoy, which is as
much as to say, the great city on the river Kama;
and here we thought to have seen some evident alter-
ation in the people, their manners, their habits, re-
ligion, and their business; but we were mistaken,
for as we had a vast desert to pass, which, by report,
is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but
not above two hundred miles over where we passed
it; so, till we came to that horrible place, we found
very little dilference between that country and the
Mogul Tartary, and the people mostly pa ns, and
little better than the savages of America; t eir hou-
see and towns full of idols, and their way of livin
wholly barbarous, except in the cities, as above, an
the villages near them, where they are Christians, as
they call themselves, of the Greek church; but even
these have their religion mingled with so many relics
of superstition, that it is scarce to be known, in some
places, from mere sorcery and witchcraft.
In assing this forest, I thought indeed we should
have een robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop
of thieves; of what country they were, whether the
roving bands of the Ostiachy, a kind of Tartars, or
wild peo le on the bank of the Oby, and ranged thus
far, or w ether they were the sable-hunters of Sibe-
ria, I am yet at a loss to know ; but they were all on
410 'nosnzson causes.
410 'nosnzson causes.
as within about two ,musket-shot, and, asking no
questions, they surrounded us with their horse, and
looked very earnestly upon us twice. At length they
laced themselves in our wa , when we drew up a
ittle line before our camels, being not above sixteen
men in all; and sent out the Siberian servant, who
attended his lord, to see who they were. His master
was the more willing to let him go, because he was
not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian
troop sent out after him. The man came up near
410 'nosnzson causes.
though he spoke several of their languages, or dialects
of languages rather, he could not understand a word
they said. However, after some signs to him not to
come nearer them at his peril (so he said he under-
stood them to mean), offering to shoot at him if he
' advanced, the fellow came back no wiser than he
went, onl that b their dress, he said he believed
them to e me artars of Kalmuck, or of the Cir-
cassian hordes, and that there must be more of them
on the great desert, though he never heard that ever
any of them were seen so far north before.
his was small comfort to us. However we had
no remedy. There was, on our left hand, at about a
quarter of a mile’s distance, a little grove or clump of
trees, which stood close together, and very near the
road’ I immediately reolved we would advance to
those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could
nosmson nausea. 411
in a great measure, cover us from their arrows, and,
in the next place, they could not come to charge us
in a. body. It was indeed my old Portuguese pilot
who proposed it, and who had this excellency attend-
ing him, namely, that he was always readiest and most
apt to direct and encourage us, in cases of the most
danger. We advanced immediately with what speed
we could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars,
or thieves, for we knew not what to call them, keep-
ing their stand, and not attempting to hinder us.
\Vhen we came thither, we found, to our great satis-
faction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of ground,
and, on the one side, a very great spring 1 f water,
which running out in a little rill, or brook, was a
little farther joined by another of the like bigness,
and was, in short, the head, or source, of a con-
siderable river, called afterwards the Wirtska. The
trees which grew about this spring were not in all
above two hundred, but were very large, and stood
pretty thick, so that as soon as we got in, we saw our-
selves crfectly safe from the enemy, unless they
alightes and attacked us on foot.
nosmson nausea. 411
much labour, great arms of the trees, and laid them
hanging, not quite cut off, from one tree to another:
so that we made a continued fence almost round us.
\Ve staid here, waiting the motion of the enemy,
some hours, without perceiving they made any offer
to stir, when, about two hours before night, they came
directly upon us ; and, though we had not perceived
it, we found they had been joined by some more of
the same, so that they were near fourscore horse,
whereof we fancied some were women. They came
on till they were within half a shot of our little wood
nosmson nausea. 411
them in the Russian tongue to know what they wan-
ted, and bade them keep off; but, as if they knew
nothing of what we said, they came on with a double
fury, directly up to the wood side, not has iniug we
were so barricadoed that they could not reak in.
Our old pilot was our ca tain, as well as he had been
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
they came within pistol shot, that we might be sure
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
to take good aim. We bade him give the Word 0!
command. which he delayed so long, that they were,
some of them, within two pikes’ length of us when
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
We aimed so true (or Providence directed our shot
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
volley, and wounded several others, as also several of
their horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces
- with two or three bullets a-pieee, at least.
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
trea immediately about one hundred rods from us,
in which time we loaded our pieces again, and seeing
them keep at a distance, we sallied out and caught
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
were killed; and coming up to the dead, we could
easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew not from
what country, or how the came to make an excursion
of such an unusual lengt .
About an hour after, they made a motion to attack
us again, and rode round our little wood, to see where
41'2 ROBINSON causes.
to face them, they went off again, and we resolved
not to stir from the place for that night.
\Ve slept little, but spent the most part of the night
in strengthening our situation, and barricading the
entrances in the wood and keeping a strict watch,
we waited for daylight; and when it came, it gave
us a very unwelcome discovery indeed ; for the enemy,
who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they had met with, were now increased to no less
than three hundred, and had set up eleven or twelve
huts and tents, as if they were resolved to besiego
us; and this little camp they had pitched was upon
the o n plain, at abzut three quarters of a mile from
us. e were, indeed, surprised at this discovery,
and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and
all that I had. The loss of my etfects did not lie so
near me (though they were very considerable,) as the
thoughts of falling- into the hands of such barbarians,
aonmsox causos. 413
ties and hazards as I had gone through, an even in
sight of our port, where we expected safety and deli-
verance. As for my partner, he was raging, and
said he would rather die than be starved; and he was
aonmsox causos. 413
aonmsox causos. 413
and my old pilot was of opinion that we were able to
resist them all, in the situation we then were in ; and.
thus we spent the day in debates of what we should
do; but towards evening we found that the number
of our enemies still increased. Perhaps, as they
aonmsox causos. 413
sent out scouts to call for help, and to acquaint them
of the booty, and we did not know but by the morning
they might still be a greater number; so I began to
inquire of those people we had brought from Tobolski
if there Was no other, or more private ways, by which
we might avoid them in the night, and, perhaps, either
retreat to some towns, or get help to guard us over
the desert.
The Siberian, who was servant to the oung lord,
aonmsox causos. 413
he would engage to carry us off in the night by a
way that went north, towards the river Petraz, by
which he made no question but we might get away,
and the Tartars never be the wiser; but, he said, his
lord had told him he would not retreat, but would
414 nosrnson onuson.
414 nosrnson onuson.
for the sake of it; that I knew his lord was brave
enough, by what he had shown already; but his lord
knew better than to desire to have seventeen or eigh-
414 nosrnson onuson.
necessity forced them to it; and that if he thought it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing
else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if his lord
gave him such an order, he would lose his life, if he
did not perform it. We soon brought his lord to give
that order, though privately, and we prepared for put-
ting it in practice.
414 nosrnson onuson.
414 nosrnson onuson.
prepared so as to make it burn all night, that the
artars might conclude we were still there; but as
soon as it was dark, that is to say, so soon as we could
see the stars (for our guide would not stir before,) hav-
ing all our horses and camels ready laden, we followed
our new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by
the pole, or north star, all the country being level for
a long way.
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it
began to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark
all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in short,
it was rather lighter than we wished it to be: but by
six o’clock next morning we were gotten near forty
miles, though the truth is, we almost spoiled our
horses. Here we found a Russian village, named
Kirmezinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing
of the Kalmuck Tar-tars that day. About two hours
before night we set out again, and travelled till eight
the next morning, though not quite so hastily as
before: and about seven o’clock we passed a little
river called Kiitza, and came to a good large town,
inhabited by Russians, and very populous, called
Ozomoys. There we heard, that several troops or
hordes of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desertI
but that we were now completely out of danger of
them, which was to our great satisfaction, you me
be sure. Here we were obliged to get some fres
aoanvsor; causes. 415
and my partner and I agreed to give the honest Si-
berian, who brought us hither, the value of ten pis-
toles, for his conducting us.
aoanvsor; causes. 415
river Witzogda, which running into the river Dwina,
we were there very happily near the end of our
travels by land, that river being navigable in seven
days passage to Archangel. From hence we came to
Lawrenskoy, where the river joins, the third of July,
and provided ourselves with two luggage boats and a
barge for our convenience. We embarked the seventh,
and arrived all safe at Archangel the eighteenth, hav-
aoanvsor; causes. 415
journey, including our stay of eight months and odd
days at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this
lace six weeks for the arrival of the shi s, and must
ave tarried longer, had not a Hamburg er come in
above a month sooner than any of the English ships;
when, after some consideration that the city of Ham-
burgh might happen to be as good a market for our
ods as London, we all took freight with him; and
aving put our goods on board, it was most natural
for me to put my steward on board, to take care of
aoanvsor; causes. 415
opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore
again in all the time we stayed there, and this he did,
that he might not be seen in the city, where some of
the Moscow merchants would certame have seen and
discovered him.
We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August
in the same year; and, after no extraordinary bad
voyage, arrived in the Elbe, the thirteenth of Sep-
tember. Here my partner and I found a very good
sale for our goods; as well those of China, as the
sables, &c. of Siberia; and dividing the produce of
our effects, my share amounted to three thousand four
‘16 ROBINSON (unison.
and threepence, notwithstanding so many losses we
had sustained and charges we had been at, onl re-
membering that I had included in this about six un-
dred pounds’ worth of diamonds, which I had pur-
chased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took leave of us, and went up
the Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where
he resolved to seek protection, and where he could
correspond with those of his father’s freinds who were
left alive. He did not part without all the testimo-
nies he could give me of gratitude for the service I
had done him, and his sense of my kindness to the
prince his father.
To conclude, having stayed near four months in
Hamburgh, I came from thence overland to the Hague,
where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in Lon-
don the tenth of January, 1705, having been gone
from England ten years and nine months.
And here, resolvmg toth myself no more, I am
‘16 ROBINSON (unison.
‘16 ROBINSON (unison.
riety, and learned sulllciently to know the value of
retirement, and the blessing of ending my days in
peace.

V. NICHOLSON AND SONS, PRINTERS, WAKEFlELD.


ILI‘JV»,
\Q

