r 


>iii*ia&siferS:t'J*it^ V -*<■ .^ k -' . -> ^ -i.aS*-*;/**^ •ji'% 


P 


-\ 




:>;. 7, wj £.£<?£ /3 . I^Sfi' 








Treadwell- Elizabeth- Phillips 'Kirstein- 3 




'■ 


1 


£ 


( 




I 

s 

a 
a 


THE 2 
WDXIAM P. TRENT COLLECTION " 








■^ 


WORKS RELATING TO S 




j 




U 


DANIEL DEFOE 2 




• 






AND HIS TIME ? 




> 




(/5 


T » 

THE PUBLIC-LIBRARY \ 








1 


OFTHECITYOF : 








U 

a 


BOSTON \ 








4J 

3- 


SUNDRY TRUST FUNDS n 






1: 


Clement- Charlotte Harris • Whitney • 






FN7II: 29; 3M. 






•i^ 


^ 


^ic^j^fe^.Wi* ■• " ■ "' 


,<^ 



5^^«^- 



"35 

The Wonderful 



LI F E, 

And moft Surprifing 

ADVENTURES 

•V) F 

RoBI^^foN Cr^^OE, 

Of foRK, Mar5ner| 
Contai^^ga full and particular Account, 

:ved Eight aad I'wenty Yiears in an Un- 

IflSnd/ on the Coafl (^ Amerira-, how his 

as loH m a Storm, and ^\ his Companions 

wncd, and how he was caft upon the Sh^re 

the Wreck. With a true Relation how he was 

at laft miraculoufly preferved "by Pyrates. 

aiirfuIJy Epitomired ff^m the Three Volumes, end 
'dorndnuitb Cuts fuited to the mcfi remarkavle SiQr;cs 




I 



L O N n^O N: 
•ed forC. Hitch, at the ^edL;^n, m Pater-Kofter^ \ 

if//; and 7. Hodges, at the LaQking-Clafsj oci^lon- 
Bridge. 175:. 






y 



■f - 



f/ x / 




'X 






F 



/7^/'- f?7.f 






THE 

^PREFACE. 

IiV this new Epitome^ of the 'xonderful 
Life and moft furprifing Adventures cf 
Robinson Crusoe, I. think myfelf chliged 
ta acquaint the Reader^ that all pjp,hk Care/ 
hM ken taken to preferve the Hi (lory entire^ 
ti correct fome Mijiakes informer ImpreJJions^ 
:nd to add a confiderahle number of Fa^ls 
^ and material Ohfervations that have of late 
occur ed^ and voere never pnbliJJjed but in this 
Edition. 

The general Sue cefs^ and the jufi Applaufe 
the Work at large has met witb^ renders it 
needle fs for me to fay any thing in its Commm- 
dati-on •, nor do I think the vjeak Exceptions, 
that have been made agaiufi the Pofftbility of 
the Story, deferves any Obfervation. 

What if the Whole was [as is fuggefted'^, a 

mere Fidlion ? Tetthe Dcftgn fo jiijlly carried 

and fo inter f per fed with curious Ohferva^ 

A 3 tions 



1 



The PREFACE. 



Hons andmsral ReficSlionSy that all Perfons 
who have any 'Tafte of the Mei^hcrical Way 
of IVriting^ r^iud allow ibis to be a Mafier- 
.-piece ^ and J will venture to /^y, the fir ft and 
beft of the Kind that ever appeared in the 
tnglifh Language, 

But as I hope the Performance will [peak 
hetter in its own Favour ^ than any body can 
pert end to^ I (ball not trouble the Reader, 
mr myfelf with u/elefi Apologies^ or attempt 
toperfuade any one into an Opinion of iheWork 
fo umverfally efteemed. ^^ 

Let this Epitome^ which is contracted into 
as as narrow a Compafs aspoffible^ be but read 
ever wi'h that Conftderation and Sedatenefs 
which the Nature of the Deftgn defervesy an^ 
then there is no doubt to be made^ but the 
candid Reader will find a fufficient Return 
hothfr his Trouble and Expence \ and with 
ihcje Cautions ^and upon this Per jump tion^ I 
fubmit thefellowing Sheets to his perufal 




x/ 



i 



LIFE 

•AND 

ADVENTURES 




O F 

Robinjon Crufoe. 

''^^ E that pretends t'Q puMifh to thfr 
World an Account of his own Lifli 
and Adlions, is doabuefs under the 
ftrongeft Obligations to confine him- 
felf within the ftricleft Rules of Mo- 
defty and Truth ; and tliis, I can 
allure the Public, I mofc folemnly determine in the 
following Narration. 

I was Boru at Torky in the Year 1632, of a repu- 
table Family. My Father was a Merchant, Born 
at Bremen ; his original Name was ^r^/z/z^/z^r, which 
for thu fake of the Englip Pronounciation was after- 
wards changed into Crufoe. My Mother's Name was 
Robin/on, a, Native of the County of 2 or/J, and for 
that Reafon I was called Rokinfon, after hes: Maiden 
Name. - 

I was the youngeft of three Brothers ; tfee eldell 

was an Officer, ^nd killed in the Wars ip tlie Low 

A 4 ^gurtrietf 



8 , ThtLife and Adventures . 

C Dairies ^xA the other I could never learn any 
thing of. My Father intending me for the Law, 
particular Care was taken of my Education ; but all 
the Pains and Expence were t® no purpofe ; my In- 
cli^.ations were bent anocher Vv^ay, and nothing A, 
w^H f(^e my Tum> but at, all Hazards I muit go 
^o Sea. . 

My Father and M-ther were both violently againil 
it, and ufed a Thoufand Arguments to diiTwade me, . 
but it were all to no purpofe ; my Refolutions were fo 
firmly fettled, that neither the Entreaties of a moft. 
tender Father, nor the Tears of an affeftionate Mo- 
ther, could make any Impreffion upon me. 




J was tlien about Nineteen Years old, when meet- 
'I'g with one of my Schoolfellows at Hully who was 



^Robinson Crusoe. /' 

going with his Father, who was Mafter of a Ship to 
LoTidon-, I acquainted him with my Refolutions, and 
he readily promifed me I Ihould hpe a free PafTage, 
and be provided wath all other Neceflariesfuitable to 
the Voyage. Accordingly, without imploring a 
I Blefling of my Parents, I took Shipping upon th« 
firfl: of Scpembe)\^: 6 i . . ■ 

Our Ship was hardly got clear of the Humher, but 

we were overtaken by a violent Storm, and being 

extreamly Seavfick; I began to refledl upon, my Fa-- 

jjlj^ther's good Advice, and the Happinefs of a middle 

""-'^'State of Life which he propofed to me ; refolving if 

ever I fhould be fo happy as to fet my Feet again 

upon dry Land, I would return to my Parents, and 

■ beg their Pardon, and bid a final Adieu to my v/an- 

dering Inclination's. , , 

" Ijieie were my Thoughts during the Storm ; but 

T'as no fooner over, but my good Refolutions 

afed with the Danger; "particularly, when my 

mpanion coming to me, afked me if I was not a. 

frighted by the Storm, which, as he exprefs'd 

t. v/as only a Cap, full of Wind. Come EoVy (fa^'s he) 

turnout, fee ivhat Jine Weather <i.veha've nc-Tx:, and a 

od Bg-ojI of Punch ^ivili drcivn all your pad Sorrows. 

In fhort, the Punch was made, and I got very 

Drunk, and then all my former Refolutions and 

Notions of returning home vanifhed. I remained 

hot-licaded for feveral Days, until I was roufed up 

by another Accident, that had very near put a final 

Erd to my wandering Pvefolutioiis. 

Upon :he fixth Day, we came to an Anchor in 
Tar},uGuth Road, where we lay Wind-bound . vvith 
fever al other VciTels from l<!e^j:ra(ile\ but there be- 
ing {afc Anchorage, and our * fp being tiglvt, and 
cur Cables gQod/the Sailors deipifed Si Dangers, 
A 5 ' ^ ■■' and 




^20 ^he Life and Adventures 

and were as m?rr)|in this Station, as if they had been 
on Shore; but ouihe eighth Day there arofe fuch a 
ftrong Gale of Wind, that prevented our riding up the 
River, which ftill increafing, our Ship rode Fore- 
caftle in, having (hipped feveral large Seas. 

It was not long before a general Horror feiz'd the 
Seamen,and I heard the Mailer ciy, Lord home Mercy 
•upon us, nvejhall all be loft ! For my part, I kept 
my Cabin very fick, till the dreadful Apprehenfions ^ 
«f fudden Death, made me come upon Deck, and' 'V 
there I was terribly affrighted indeed. yf"^ 

The Sea went Mountain high, and nothing was to 
be expedled but unavoidable Deftrudion. Two of 
the Ships had already cut their Mafts by the Board ; 
two more had loft their Anchors, and were forced out 
to the Mercy of the Tcmpefl, and we, to fave our 
Lives, were forced to cut away both our Fore-mall 
and Main-maft. 

'Tis eafy to judge the Condition I was in, wh'"^, 
l)eing but a frefh Water Sailor, was in a far wc 
Cafe than any of them. Our Ship was very ftro 
but, as I underftood by them, too heavy laden, whic 
made the Sailors cry out. She ^^vould FourJer. 

The Storm continued extreamly violent, and in 
the middle of the Night I could hear fome crying 
out, That the Ship had fprung a Leak\ others. That 
ther» nvasfoitr Foot Water in the Hold. I was ready 
to give up the Ghoft through Fear, when on afud- 
den all Hands were called to the Pump, and I 
amongft the reft. 

Whilft we were all in this Confufion and Diftrefs, 
the M after happened to fpy fome light Colliers, and 
f.rtd a Gun as a S\^ial of our Mifery ; I was notthen 
a Sailor good enough to know the meaning of the 
Gun; but I foon underftood it was a Token of 

our 



i^l 



of Rob in sou Crusoe. u 

our extream Danger, and I muft freely own 'tis im- 
poffible for me to defcribe the Agonies I laboured 
under. 

Happy it was for us that in the Storm they regard- 
ed our Signal, and with a great deal of Hazard put 
cut their Long-Boat, and by wonderfuV Provideace 
faved our Lives ; for with the greateft Difficulty, we 
had hardly got into the Boat, but we faw our Ship 
fmk to the "bottom, and had infallibly been every 
Soul drowned, if they had not come in that very 
Nick of Time to our Alhftance. 

'Twas not without a great deal of Danger andDif^ 
ficulty, that they- recovered their own Ship ; however, 
they made a fhift to Land us at a Place called Cromer ^ 
near If'interton Light-Houfe, from whence we all 
walked in a moil miferable drowned Condition to 
outh, where the good People furnifhed us with 
eflaries, either for London or Hull. 
have often thought fmce,that is was very flrange 

at after thefe great Misfortunes at fetting out, I did 
not, (like the Prodigal) return to my Father, who hav- 
ing heard of the Ship's Misfortune, had all the Rea- 
fon in the World to think I were Lofl. But my ill 
Fate flill pufhed me on in fpight of all the ftrong 
Conviftions of Reafon, Confcience, and Experience. 

After three Days Hay at Tarmouth^ met the young 
Man that invited me to go on Bbard with his Father. 
I found his Face and his Behaviour very much altered, 
and I found likewife he had told his Father who I wa?, 
and that I had taken this Voyage only for a Trial, in 
order to proceed furtljftr Abroad hereafter. 



A 6 Wh.n 




IB ne Life and Adventitres 

When the old Gentleman fawme, fays he, Toung 
Mem, you ought ne'ver to atte?npt to go to iSea any more, 
for depend upon it, you 'vjill never be profperous in a 
Sea-faring Condition. Tou fee vjhat ill Succefs He an; en 
has Jet before your Eyes, and perhaps our Misfortune 
fnay in fame Meajure be onuii^-gto you. Pray, (adds he) 
tell me truly upon n<:hat Motinjesyoufirji undertook this 
Voyage ? Upon this I told him the whole, at the 
End of which- he broke out into the following Excla- 
mation; . -* 

Oh ye Eternal F covers! What great Offence h 
f.crimitted, that I fhould take fuch a defperate c. 
doned Wretch into ?fiy Ship, that has brought all thefe 
Miferies and Misfcriunes upon me? After his l^aflion 
was a little abated, he proceeds, Toung Miar., depend 
■upon it, if you do not return and fubmit to yoi^. Pa- 
rents, <where enjer you go, the Anger ofGodnx>il% 
tainly purfue you, and you <v:ill meet nvith nothing 
Ruin and Difajier, until your Father s Words 
fulf lied upon you. And fo he left me. 

And no\V again I had fome Notion of returning 
home ; but that were quickly over-ruled by a foolilh 
Opinion, that if I did, my Neiglibours and A-cquain- 
tance would hingh at me. So ftrange is the Nature 
of Youth, that though they often do foolifh Things 
without either Shame or Remorfe, yet at the fame 
Time they are afhamed to own their Folly and 
repent. 

In fhort, I made the beft of my Way to London, 
being at all Hazards refolved upon a Voyage ; and 
being acquainted with a Captain of a Ship, a Voy- 
age 1 foon heard of to the Coaft of Guinea. Having 
fome Money, and appearing like a Gentleman, I 
did not go on Board like a common Sailor, but foon 



ccr- 



c/* Robinson Crusoe. -i^ 

got fo far into the Captain's Favour, that he told' 
me I ihould be his Mefs-mate, and Ihould have full 
Liberty to carry with me what Merchandize I fhould 
think fit, and to difpofe of it to my own Advantage. 

I was wonderfully pleafed with his kind Offer, and 
concluded that I had now an Opportunity of mak- ; 
ing my Fortune ; and, in order to my Voyage, I ■ 
fent to my Friends for fome Money to fit me out; 
who, accordingly, remitted me Forty Pounds, which 
I laid out in Goods, according to his Direftions. He j 
taught me fo keep a Journal, and feveral of the moll I 
(eful Parts of Navigation. And indeed, by his | 

Mance, and m.y own Induiby, in this Voyage, I | 

le both a Sailor and a Merchant. Part of the j 

-age, I was exceffivefick of aCalenture,occafion- / 

)y the extraordinary Heat of the Climate, being j 

the Latitude of almoft i 5 Degrees North of the 
line; however, I recovered and managed my little 
5tock fo well, that I brought over with me 5 Pound 
nnd 9 Ounces of Gold DuU:; which produced xi 
London near Three Hundred Pounds Sterling. 

Soon after my Return, my good Friend the Cap 
tain died; though this was a very great grief to mc 
yet I rcfolved to go another Voyage with his Mate 
who had got the Command of the Ship. This Voy 
age proved a very vmfuccefsful one. J carried witli , 
me about i go /. and left the rell with the Captain's | 
Widow, and fo to Sea we went. But as we were | 
failing towards the Cayiary-IJlands, we found we 
were chafed by a Sallee Rover, who, in Spite of all 
the fail we could make,- in a Ihort Time came upi 
witii us; and now there was no Remedy but to 
Fight, or be taken. 

=They had 18 Guns, and our Ship but 12; how? 
€ver, about Three in the Afternoon we came to 

Engagemt 



D an| 



H ^^s Life and Adventures 

Engagement; many \yere killed on both Sides, but 
at length, being over-powered by their Numbers, we 
were forced to fubmit, and all carried into Bailee, Our 
Men were fent to the Emperor's Couit to be fold, 
but the Captain of the Pyrates taking a particular 
Liking to me, kept me for his own Slave. 

'Twas in this miferable Condition that my Fatl'ier's 
Words came afrefti into my Remembrance, and my 
Thoughts were continually at Work to make my 
Efcape. My Patron entrufted me with the Manage- 
ment of his Garden and Houfe ; a*id indeed I w 
not without Hopes, but at fome Time or other an 
Opportunity might offer : The worfl of it was, I had 
no Mortal to communicate my Thoughts to ; and io 
two Years, I could find nothing pra6^icable. 

In lepgth of Time, I found my Patron was grown"" 
fo poor, that he could not fit out his Ship as ufii^l • 
and then he ufed conllantly once or twice in a WeV 
to go out a Fifhing, taking me and a Merifco Boy i\ 
row the Boat , and fo much pleafed was he with m^ 
Dexterity in Fiihing, that he would often fend me 
with.aM(?r7r, hisKinfman, and the Boy, to catch 
Fiih for him. 

One Morning as we were at the- Sport, there arofe 
fc. thick a Fog that we loft our Way, and rowing all 
Night, when it was Light we found onrfelves at leaft 
two Leagues in the Ocean; however, we made a 
fhift to get on Shore. But to prevent the like Mif- 
fortunefor the future, my Patron ordered a Carpenter 
to build a little State-Room in the Middle of the 
Long-Boat, with a Place behind to Steer, and other 
Conveniences to keep out the Weather. 

.' In this he would often take us out a Fifning; and 

''one Time particularly, he invited three or four Per- 
fons of Dillindion to go along with him, and made 

.extraordinary Preparation for their -Entertainment ; 

|- providing 



IS. 

h. ^ 









of Robinson' Crusoe. i^ 

providing alfo three Fuzees, with a fufficient Quanti- 
ty of Powder and Shot, that they might have fome 
Sport at Fowling as they pafTed along the-Shore. The 
next Morning the Boat being in readinefs, on a fad- 
den their Minds altered. However, my Patron order- 
ed us to go and catch a Diih of Fiih, for that he was 
refolved his Gueft fhould fup with him. 

And now it was that I began to think of my De- 
liverance, and in order to it, I perfuaded the Moor to 
get fome Provifions on Board, and alfo fome Powder 

d Shot to fhoot Curlews, which were very plentiful 
in thofe Parts. I took Care to provide privately what- 
ever elfe I could think was the moft n-jceffary for the 
prefent Expedition, being refolved to make my Efcape, 
or to perifh in the Attempt. 

■When we were pall the Caft?e, we fell to Fifhing, 
and I flood further into the Sea j and when we were 
^c- at lead a League, I gave the Boy the Helm, and 
feizcd Muhj by Surprize, and threw him over-board; 
'lule\\ (faidi) 1 ne^ver defigned you any Harm, and 
^feek nothing hut my civn Redempion ; / knoivycu are 
ahie to jkciTK to Shore i hut if you offer to foilonu me^ 
that -very Moment I nvill Jhoot you through the He^d / 
Upon which he inftantly turned about, and I make 
no doubt but he got fafe to Shore. 

This Aflion frighted the poor Boy exceeding; 
however, I foon tafe him of his Fear, by telling him, 
Jfhe ^vcouldbe a gcodBoy^ and fwear by Mahomet^..- 
ar.d the Beard of his Father, to fernje me faithfully, I 
ivould he 'very kind to him \ the poor Chifd feemed \ 
v^'<5ndtrful]y pleafed with my Promife, and readily | 
confented, and from that Time I began to love him j 
entirely. 

We parfued cur Voyage, keeping ftill on the Bar- 
hary Coaft ; but in the Duflc of the Evening I changed ' 
ipy Courfe, fleering dire(^ly 6". and by E. that we 

mij 



we j 



1 6 Tbe Life and Adventures 

might be always near the Shore ; and having a plea- 
fant Gale, I f-jund the next Day by three in the Af- 
ternoon, we were got i cjo Miles beyond the Doniin- 
ions of the Emperor of Morocco ; yet Hill I was un- 
der dreadful Apprehenfions of being re-ta^en. 




I continued failing for f ve Days together, until I 
concluded that if any Veffei was in purfuit of me, I 
was got fofarto the So'uthn.vard, that they would 
not think proper to follow me on further. 

After all this Fatigue, I anchored in the P'/Touth of 
a little River ; but where I knew not, neither could 
I fee any People to make aDifcovery. Wh^tl chiefly 
wanted was frefii Water, which I was refolved to go 

But 
•no 



on Shore to find out as feon as it grew Dufkilh 



<9/*RoRiNsoN Crusoe. 17^ 

r.o fooner it began to grow Dark, but we heard fuch 
Howlings and Yellings of Wild Beafts and ?*4onllers, 
that I mu-l'c needs own I -wls excee?dingly terrified. 

Poor A'^ury pairtonately begged me not to go afhore 
that Night. The Boy had a great deal of Wit, for 
which, and fome broken Englijh which he had learnt 
amoiVg the Captives of our Nation, I was mightily 
pleased with him : Neverthelefs, the Hcwlings and 
Bellowings were fo very dreadful, that we had but 
little Reft that Night ; and to add to our Confufion, 
e decovered one of the Monfters making towards 
iiS"; upon which I took up one of my Guns and {hot 
at hiin ; whether I hit him or not, I cannot fay, but 
'he made towards the Shore, and the Noife of my Gun 
increafed the ftupendous Noife of other Monfters. 

The next Morning I refolved to go on Shore, and 
.: all Hazards feek fome freih Water ; the poor Boy 
would have taken one of the Jars, and fetched me 
fome, but I refufed, telling him we would both go 
together and take t^.e fame Fate ; and accordingly 
v/e took our Arms, and two Jars for Water, and , 
away we went. ' 

I did not go out of Sight of the Boat for fear the 
Savages fliould come down the River in their Canoes, 
and take it away ; but the Boy feeing a Vale a little 
further, ventured to it, and returning with Precipita- 
tion, I thought that he was either purfued by the 
Savages, or fome Wild Beaft, upon which I ran to- 
wards him, refolving to perifh, or preferve him : But 
as he came nearer to me, I favv a Creature hanging 
at his Back, like one of our Hares, but fomething 
larger, which proved to be good and wholefome 
Meat; and what added mofc to our Joy, the Boy 
afTured me there was Plenty of frelh Water in the 
reiy. Creek where the. Boat lay. 

la 



1 8 Tbe JJfe snd Jdv^HUres 

In tlus Place I began to confider that the Canary 
yiandsy and Cape de Verd could not be far off; but 
having no Inib-ament, I knew not in what Latitude 
we were, or when to ftand cff to S^^afor them ; my 
Hopes were to nieet Toms of the Engiljh Trading 
Yeiiels, that would ccnfecusndy take us in, and rCj- 
Jbeve us. 

Tike PiSce I r^^as in, was, doubtlefs, that Wild 
uninliabited Country that lies between the Emperor 
iiiMoro;ca\ Dominions and the i<iegrGss\ it abounds J 
with V/iid EeaHs of ail Sortc, and the Moors ufe it^j| 
for Hunting. From this I thought I faw Mciuif^^ 
Terreriffe in the Cananes, and tried twice to fteer my 
Coaft thai Way, but was as often driven back, and 
compelled to leek my Fortune along the Shore. 

One PvToming very early we came to an Anchor at 
, a fmall Point, and the Tide begining to flow, we were 
preparing to go further in ; but Xury, whofe youthfiil 
and penetratmg Eyes faw further than I, defired mt 
to keep out to Sea, or we fnould be devoured; For 
Jock yonder, Meyter, (faid he) andjee dat hugsMonfier^ 
feijl ajleep on de Side ofde Hili; He pointed to the 
Place, and I difcovered a Lion of a prodigious fize, 
bailcinghimfelf under the fhade of a Hill. A'i^r^,(faid I) 
you //jail go on Shore, and kill him ;. the Boy look'd 
amazedf 'M? kill him, (faid he) he eat me at one Mcuth; 
meaning one Mouthful. Upon which I took my 
biggeft Gun, and charging it well, fhoi at him, and 
broke one of his Legs ; and then with a Shot from 
my odier Gun I killed him. 

But the Fle-fh of this Creature not being good for 
Food, I though this was fpending our Ammunition in 
vain ; indeed I thought the Skin, when it was dry, 
might be of fome Vk, and fo I determined to flea it 
QiF, which took us up a whole Day to effect. 

From 



n 



c/ Robinson Crusoe. 



19 



Fro in thence we went to the Soutl^^ward, refolving 
to live fparingly on our Provifions, and go on Shore 
as feUiom as poffible, my Def.gn being to reach Gcf^- 
kiay or ary other Place about the Cnpe de Ferd, in 




Hopes to meet fome European Ship ; and if Provi- 
dence did not favour me in this, my next Refolution 
wa; to feek for the Iflands, and venture myfelf 
among the Negroes ; for without one of thefe, I 
cciuld have no cwher Profpeil but ftarving. 

As we were faihng pretty near the Shore, w-e 
could difcover feveral People upon it looking after 
US; We could perceive they were Blacks y naked 
and unarmed, all, except one, who had fomething 
in his Hand Hke a Stick, which Xury told me was a 
Launce,witlv which they couldkillatagreatDiftance; I 

was 



!2b The Life and Adventures 

I was inclinable to have gone afhore, but Xury cry'd. 
No, no; however, I drew as near to the Shore as I 
could, and talk to theni by Signs, till I made them 
fenfible I wanted fomething; they made Signs again 
ts ine to flop my Boat, wi-iiiil two of them I'un up into . 
the Country, and in lefs than half an Hour, brought 
me two Pieces of dry Flefh, and fome Com, which 
we kindly accepted, and to prevent any Fears, they 
laid it down, and went and ftood at a diilance till we 
had fetched it on Board, and then came clofe up to ' 
us again. 




But while we were returning Thanks to them, be- 
ing all we could afford, two mighty Creatures came 
from tlie Mountains in purfuit of each other; they 

paffcd 



(?/" Robinson Crusob. 2i\ 

pafled the Negroes with great fwiftnefs, and jumped 
direftly into the Sea, wantonly fwimming about, as 
if the Water had put a Stop to their Fury. At lafl 
one of them coming nearer to the Boat than I defired, 
I took one of Guns and let fly at him and killed 
him. 

I cannot exprefs the Conftemation of the poor Ne- 
groes, upon hearing the Report of the Gun ; nor their 
Surprize at feeing the Creature flain by it. I made 
Signs to them to draw it out of the Water by a Rope, , 
which they accordingly did ; and then I perceived it 
"^ be a beautiful Leopard, which made me defiroiis : 
the Skin ; and the Negroes being no lefs defirous 

.the Fleih, I freely gave it them. As for the other, 
lich was likewife a Leopard) it made back to the 

[puntains with prodigious fwiftnefs. 

'he Negroes having furnifhed us with the bell 
'rovifions that the Nature of their Country and Cir- 
^umftances would allow, I took my Leave of them j 
and in 1 1 Days fail, I came in Sight of Cape de Ferd{ ^ 
or thofe Iflands that go by that Name ; but could not 
by any Means reach either of them. Upon which }' 
grew extreamly dejedled; when Xury, (with afc 
of Terror) cryed out, Majiro, Majiro, a great SI 
*with a Sail! I foon perceived fhe was a Portuguez 
and, as I conjedlured, bound to Guinea for Negro f 
upon which I ftrove all I could to come up with them ; 
but all my ftriving had been in vain, if they had rot 
happened to fpy, and Ihortned their Sail to Hop " 
me. 

Encouraged by this, I fet up my Antient, and fire 
a Gun both as Signals of Diftrefs ; upon which the) 
kindly lay to, till I came up with them. It happei 
cd there was a Scotch Sailor on Board, to whomi 
made my Cafe known j and then they took me inV 
their Ship. 

v.. 



w 

42 ^bc Life and Advmtures 

You may well imagine my Joy was exceeding 
great for this unexpeded Deliverance; efpecially when 
I found the Captain of the Ship was.very kind and 
compa5ionate tome; to whom in Return for his 
^JFriendfhip, I offered all I had, which he generouily 
refufed; telling raehis Chr:fl;lan Cliarity taught him 
better : Tbofi Effu^a you harve (fays he) w/// he a 
means to fupport you nxhenyoucome to the firaills, and 
fro'vidc for your Pajpx^e home to your Nat I've Country, 
And indeed he a6ted with ftrid Jufbce towards me 
inallRefpeas. 

He bought my Boat pf me, and gave me his Note 
to pay me fiighty Pieces of Eight for it, when wc 
came to the Src^fils : He alfo gave me Sixty for my 
Boy Y':/ry, whom I parted with, with great Reludance; 
however, the Boy being willing J agreed he fhould be 
iet at Liberty after Ten Years Service. 

We arrived at the Bay of ^^H- Saints, after i z Da) 
fail. Ti;e good Man would not take any thing fo: 
my PaiTage. He gave me i > Ducats for the Leopard's 
Skin, and t for the Lion's ; every Thing he caufed 
to be delivered, and what I wo'old fell, he bought. 
n fhort, I made 22 Pieces of my fmall Cargo, and 
dth this little Stock I began (as it were) to enter a- 
w into the World. 

He recommended me to an honefl Planter, with 
horn I live with, till I had informed myfelf in the 
jy^ianner of Planting and making Sugar; and obfer- 
VJngthe great Advantages of that Bufinefs, I refolved 
; to get the Money I had \dt behind me in England rQ- 
i initted, and to bay a Plantation. 
I In fhort, I purchafed a Plantation abjoining to an 
^-lioneil Portuguese, born ^f En'^H/h Parents, whom 
tipcn all Occafions, I found a very kind and ufefti|f 
LNeighbotir, 0«i Stocks at firi^ were both very lowi 
I ji«v€rthel©f 



^ 



c/" Robinson Crusoe. 47 

at a Lofs ; I tried to recover the Ship's Boat, and 
then to make me a Canoe, but all in vain ; and here 
I could not ferbear refleiling upon the Folly of thole 
who undertake Matters, that they are not able to go 
through with. 

I was in the midft of my Projefts when my fourth 
Year expired, fmce 1 had been call: on this .:fland; 
nor did i forget to keep my Anniverfary, with that 
Solemnity and Devotion, as I had done the Y^ar. be- 
fore ; I'began to think myfelf feparated from the 
World, and from all Opportunities of final Conver- 
'* ;ion. 1 had nothing to covet, being, as it were. 
Emperor, or King of a whole Country, where I 
had no Body to controul me, nor no Body to govern 
but myfelf. 

Thefe Thoughts made me look upon the Things 

this World with a fort of a religious Contempt, 

lered me eafie in my defolate and melancholy 

- . :o n, for, having made God's Mercies to me, 

HHH of the higheft Confolation, I relinquifhed all 

^^^^^ Thoughts, and difmal Apprehenfions, and 

^HKed myfelf up intirely to God's Providence. 

B^My Ink was quite gone, and my Bilket almoft ex- 

^aufted ; my Linnen was worn out, only fome of the 

i Sailor's chequer Shirts remained, which were of 

mighty Ufe to me in the hot Weather. My Cloaths 

and Hat were quite worn ; but thofe I fupplied by 

the help of my Goats Skins ; of which, I firft made 

inc a fort of Cap, and then a Waiftcoat, and open- 

knee'd Breeches, with the Hair on the out-fide; and 

thus, being perfedly at Eafe in my Mind, I fpent 

my Time in. contemplating the Bleifings of ^eaven, 

and was ravifh'd to think, that, at one I'ime or oth-er, 

i ihould be deliver'd from my prefent Misfortunes, 

and placed out of the r«acb of them for ever. 



4^ 'The Life and Adventurer 

For five Years after this, nothing worth mention- 
ing happened ; only at fpare Times, I had finifhed 
a Imall Canoe, with which, at all Hazards, I refol- 
X^ed to try to difcover the Circiimferance of my 
Dominions ; and, in order to it,. I put Provinons on 
Board, with Ammunition, and all other Necefikries 
fit for the Expedition. 

It w«is the 1 6th of Ncjemher, in the 9th Year of 
my Reign, that I began this Voyage; which was 
much longer than I e^^pefted, by Reafon I had many 
Difficulties to encounter, \ did not fufped ; and in- 
deed, the Rocks were fo high, and ran io far i, ; 
the Sea, that J often refolved to turn back i . . 
than run the rifk of being driven fo far out to Sea, 
that I copid by no Means get back again. 

I n this Confufion, \ came to Anchor as near to the 
Shore as pofible, to which \ waded, and clambering 
up to the top of an high Hill, I viewed the Extent 
of my Dominions, and, at all Hazards, refcij^d 
purfue my Voyage. It U endlefs to reh 
Danger my Raihnefs expofed me to; 1 was^ 
by the Current fo far into the Sea, that I had 
any Prolpeft to get back again ; nor by all I 
do with my Paddles, which 1 had made to fupply 
place orSculls, to help me; and now I had no Prof- 
pe6l but perifliing at Sea when my Provinons were 
fpeht, or, if a Storm fhould arife, before. However, 
by the lucky change of the Wind, or, rather, by the 
particular Providence of God, I was driven back 
again to the ' fland, and, to my unfpeakable Joy, I 
came on Shore^ where, being exceedingly fatigued 
v/ith Watching and hard Labour, I laid me down and 
took a little Repofe. After I awaked and had dreffed 
myfelf up as ufual, I laid up my Boat in a fmall con- 
venient Creek fit for tAat Parpofe, and taking my 
Gun, ^c. i made the beft of my Way to my Bower, 

where 




ij/" RoRiNSGN Crusoe. 4^ 

where I again laid me down to reft ; bnt it was not 
long before 1 was furpnzed with a Voice, which call- 
ed, RoHn CrufoCy poor Robin Cm foe ! Where have you 
been, poor Robin Crufoe? Upon which I llarted up 
in a great Confufion, and cafting my Eyes round, I 
faw my Parrot fitting upon the Hedge, and then I 
knew it was ihe that called to me, but was flrangely 
iurprized how the Creature came there, and why 
it Ihould fix upon that Place, above the reft. The 
Bird came to me as foon as I called it, and it pearch- 
pp^upon ray Finger, as ufual, and feem'd to fignify 
^' treat deal of Joy for my Return. 

■ his \^oyage had cured me of a great deal of my 

rambling Inclination j infomuch, that I began to lay 

afide all Hopes of Deliverance ; fo I led a retired 

Life, aUq in a very contented Manner pafied away 

near I 2 Months, (pending my Time in making In- 

-. and doing fuch Things that I found were 

olutely neceftaiy, both for my prti'ent and 

ubfiftance. 

^i^ next Confideration was, my Powder growing 

^^R what I fhould do to kill the Goats and Fowl to 

B^rc upon ; I had abundance of Contrivances in my 

liead to to try to catch the Goats alive, particularly 

the flie Goats with young, antl at length I had my 

Defire ; for making Pitfalls, aud baiting them with 

fome of my Corn, one Morning I found in one of 

them an old he Goat, and in the other three young 

onco, one Male and two Females. 

The old cne was too ftroiig for me, and I could not 
tell how to mafter him ; but the Kids I made fhift to 
get to my Habitation : It was fome Time before I 
could make them feed, but after they had for fome 
Time been kept without Food, and I threw them 
fome frefti Corn, and gave them fome Water, their 
Stomachs came to them ; and ngw my next Care 
C was 



50 The Life and Adventures ■ 

was to find them Failure, and fecure them fo that* 
they might not run away ; all which, I, at laft, effedt- 
ed ; and, withal, by my well ufmg thefe poor Crea- 
tures, I had made them fo tame and familiar, that 
they would follew me, and eat Corn out of my 
Hand. This having anfwer'd my Ends, I think in 
about eighteen Months Time 1 had got a Flock of 
about 12, and in lefs than two Years 43; and now 
I was not only provided with Goat's Flefh, but with 
Milk alfo, which was another BlelTmg I had little 
Reafonto expe6l. a 

— Being thus happy, and having almoft forgot aj' 
Hopes of Liberty, I lived as well as the Nature 0) 
my Condition could poflibly allow ; and indeed, it 
was a very diverting Sight to fee me fit in State ar 
my Dinner, all alone by myfelf, like a King ; and 
it would have been a very pleafant Objecfl to have 
fcen me in my Goat-Skin Drefs, and other fuicabli. 
Habiliments. 

My chief Concern now was about my Boa1 
I was extremely unwilling to loofe, having d 
fo much hard Labour : I went by Land to the 
where I left it, but found there was no way to bri 
it oif, without running the fame Rifk I was fo lately 
expofed to, which 1 thought too dangerous for a 
fecond Experiment ; and therefore, I refolved upon 
unother^Expedient, which was, to make another 
Canoe, and leave it on the other Side of the Illand. 

And here I think it may not be improper to in- 
form the Reader, that I had two Plantations in the 
I'land ; the firil was my little Fort or Caftle, where 
J had made feveral Improvements ; and the fecond 
was my Bower or Country Seat, where were my 
Grapes, and the Enclofures for my Goats, and fe- 
veral other Conveniencies, that made it a very plea- 
lint and agreeable Retirement. 

From 




<>/ Robinson Cr us o£. 51 

From this Place it was that I ufed to go often to 
view my Boats; and now I Ihall relate a Thing that 
gav^e me the mod Difquiet of any Thing I had met 
with, fmce my firll coming into the Iflat d. 

It may be well fuppofed that after I had been fo 
long in this defolate part of the World, nothing 
could have been more amazing, than to have (een 
any Human Creature ; but one Day, as I was going 
to my Boat, as ufual, I perceived on the Sand, the 
Print of a Man's naked Foot, and had I feen an 
- Apparition, I could not have been more terrified. 
T looked round me on all Sides, but could not hear 
lee any Thing ; I obferved the Tramplings,! and 
was convinced, from all the Signs, that fome Foot 
had been there ; and in the deepeft Confufion I re- 
turned back to my Habitation. 

Tlat Night I never clofed my Eyes, and was full 
'poft difmal Apprehenfions that I was ever in 
^^^^ Life. Sometimes I had the Vanity to think it 
H^^Ke the Devil ; at other Times, I thought it 
^^Kkt fome Savage, that the Current had driven 
^P^ and not liking the Place, was fecretly gone off 
^no Sea again. H'appy was I, in my Thoughts, that 
none of the Savages had feen me, and, yet, at the 
fame Time, I was exceedingly terrified leaft they 
ihould have feen my Boat, and fo come in great 
Numbers and find me out, and devour me and all 
yny little Stock, that I had been fo long a gethering- 
Thefe Thoughts afflided me extremely, ai.d yet, 
after mature Confideration, I concluded it was my 
bell way to throw myfelf upon the fovereign Gover- 
nor of the World, and to fubmit intirely to his 
Mercy and Providence, 

After a world of Fears and Apprehenfions, for 

three Nights and Days, 1 ventured out of my For- 

*trefs, I milked my Goats, and after I had put every 

C 2 Thing 



52 ^he Life and Adventures 

Thing in Order, not without the greateft Conllerna- 
tion, i went again to the Shore to make my further 
Obfervations, and upon the whole concluded, that 
either the liland was Inhabited, or that fome Perfons 
had been on Shore, and that I might be furprized 
before I was aware. 

This put feveral frightful Notions into my Head> 
infomuch, that Sleep was an intire Stranger to me, 
my whole Thoughts being taking up in nothing but 
my Prefervation. I put my little Caftle into the bell 
Pollure of Defence I was able, and placed all 
Guns, fo that they might be ferviceable, if I 
Occafion to make ufe of them. 

I divided my Goats into feveral Parcels; tj 
Goats, and two he ones I put into one Pa 
ifland, and the other ten with two he ones, 
ther ; and whilft I was in fearch of the latter,3551iich 
was on the Weftern Part of the liland, I thoUght I 
difcovered a Boat, but at too great a Dillan^ to 
make what ihe was. Being come to the Shore, ^pon 
the S. ^/'. Part of the liland, I was convinced t 
they were Savages, feeing the Place covered ^,^:i 
with the Sculls and mangled Limbs of Human Bodies^ 
I obferved, likewife, a fort of a Circle, in the midil of 
which I perceived there had been a Fire ; about this, 
I conjeftured, thefe Wretches fat, and unnaturally 
facriiiced and devoured their Fellow Creatures. 

The Horror and Loathfulnefs of this dreadful 
Spedacle confounded me fo, that though I was fatil- 
f ed theie Savages never came into the Part of the 
Ifland where I was, yet fuch an Adhorrence of them 
had ieiz'd me, that for two Years I coniined myfelf 
to my Caille, my Country Seat, and my Inclofures, 
and thus my Circumftances remained for fome Time 
undillurbed. But ftill my grand Intention remain, 

which' 




^/"Robinson Crusoe. ^^ 

which was to try if I could dellroy fome of thoic 
Savages, and iave a Viftim, that I might afterwaica 
make my Servant. 

Many were my Projeds and Contrivances to bring 
this about, at length I came to this fettled Refolutlon, 
to lie privately in Ambuih in fome convenient P1p.cc, 
and let fly upon them with my Guns iirft, and then 
.with my Piftols and Sword in Hand; and fo miicl* 
did this f ropofal plcafe my Fancy, that I was fdiy 
refolved to put it in Practice the firft Opportunity ; 
and accordingly '. foon found a Place convenient for 
- V Purpofe ; but, at the famfi Time, had feveral 
- hecks of Confcicnce, -and Reafonings with myftlf 
concerning the Lawfulnefs and Jultice of the Attempt, 
and after a lonq: Debate, I conckded to lav afidc 
the Defign. 

Whilft I was cutting down fome Wood one Day, 
to make Charcoal to drefs my Meat, and do the Fa- 
•^-.ily NecefTaries, I perceived a very large Cavity, 

d going towards it, I could perceive two lar2;e 

Pfcyes iraring upon me ; upon which I made Kalle 
put, extremely ten-ified, not imagining what it coukl 
be that looked fo frightfully : However, afrer I had 
recovered from my Surpri/e, I went again into th^ 
Cavity, refolving, at all Hazards to fee whatit wa^-j 
and when I came near enough to difcern it perfertly, 
what Ihould it be after all, but a monftrous he Goat_, 
lying on the Ground, and gafping for Life, thro* 
mere old Age. 

The Creature was not able to Hand, and fo I let 
him lie undifiurbed, and employed niyfelf in*-vi^- 
ing the Place, and making Obfervations. At the fur- 
ther Side of it I obferved a fort of an Entrance, 
but fo low that muft oblige me to creep on my 
Hands and Knees to it: I had no Candle, and the 
Place was dark, and fo I fufpended my Enterprize 
C I tiU 



54 ^^^ 'l^ife and Adventures 

till the next Day, when returned with fix large ones 
of jay own making. 

-After I had paficd the ftrait PafTage, I found the 
Roof rofe higher up ; and fure, when I came fur- 
ther in, no Mortal ever faw a more beautiful Sight I 
The Vy alb and the Roof reflefled a Thoufand Lights 
from my two Candles; and indeed, it feemedto me 
the moft delightful Grotto I had ever heard of. In 
ihort, I could find no Fault but in the Entrance, and 
v/hich I thought would be very neceffiiry for my 
JDefence and Security ; therefore, I determined to 
make this Place my principle Magazine ; and accord - 
ingly, I brought hither with the utmoft Expedition, 
Tome Arms and Ammunition, judging it impoffible 
for me to be furprized by the Savages in that Faftnel's. 

I think I was now in the 23d Year of my Reign, 
and tolerable eafy in my Condition, ^y this Time 
my Parrot had learnt to talk E-igUJh very well, and 
many diverting Hours we ufed to have together.. My 
Dog died of old Age, and my Cats increafed ib fa: 
tliat I was often forced to deltroy fome of them, I 
I ihould be over-iim by their Numbers. I alway 
i;ept two or three domeilic Goats about me, and had 
feveral Fowls that built and bred about my Caftle, 
fo I wanted nothing but an honell Companion or 
two to make me as happy as I could wifh : Eiit, alas ! 
What unforeleen Events dellroy the uncertain En- 
joyments of Human Happinefs? 

|t was now December, the Time of my Harveft, 
when going out one Morning early, there appeared 
to me from the Shore, about two Miles dillance from 
me, a flaming Light from that Part of the ifland 
where I had before obferved (ome Savages had been 
on niy Side of the Water. 

Terrified 



/Jy 



(?/ Robinson Crusoe. ^^ 

Terrified with this unufal Spectacle, and being 
under difmal Apprehenfions, that thefe Savage;^ 
would find me out, and deftroy me, I went directly 
home to my Callle, and fhut m.yfelf up as fail as I 
could, and put myfelf into a Poilure of Defence ; 
and afterwards I got up to the Top of tlie Rock, and 
viewing with my Profpedlive Glafs, I coald difeerii 
no lefs than nine naked Savages fittiiig round a Fire, 
and eating (as I fuppofed) Human Flefii, with their 
two Canoes haled on Shore, waiting for the 1 ide to 

Marry them back again. 
I^'othing can exprefs my Deteftation of fo horrid a 
^ht, efpecially when I found there were gone, and 
' 'id been at the Place of Sacrifice, and faw the 
-..rnbs and Flefh of Human Creatures lie torn and 
mangled upon the Ground : In fhort, my Indigna- 
^'on againft them rofe fo high, that, let the Confe- 
cnce be what it would, I was determined to be 
cnged upon the firft that fhould come thithei', 
I loft my Life in the Attempt. 
^^^ found afterwards that they did not "come over 
H^this Ifland very often, and as near a? I can re- 
^member, it was a Year or more before I faw any 
more of them: But before I proceed further,' I 
have another Account that will defeiTe the Reader'.^ 
Attention. 

It was the 1 6th of May, according to my wooden 
^.Calenilar, after a very terrible Storm, when I wr.-> 
alarmed with the Noife of a Gun, as fired from a 
Ship in Diftrefs, upon which I im.mcdiatcly took 
my Glafs, and went up to the Top of the Rock, 
where I had not been a Moment but a Flame of Fire 
gave Notice of another Gun, and then I was confirm- 
ed in my Opinion, that it could be nothing elfe 
but a Ship in Diftre's, which, with my Glafs, I 
foon difcovered to be true, and that the Wreck was 
C 4 upon 



55 The Life and Adventures 

upon thefe hidden Rocks where I was in great Din- 
ger of being lofl in my Boat. 

" made a Fire ujon the Hill by the way of Signal, 
and they faw it. andanfvvered it with feveral Guns. 
The Weather was very hazy, and fo I could not at 
ihat Timedifcover cither at what Diilance the Sliip 
lay, or what ihe was ; but the Weather clearing ap, 
i law a Ship call away forne Piftance at Sea. 

I had Icveral Notions concerning them, as it i* 
natural in fuch Cafes ; but conficlering feriouily the 
Place where they were, and all other Circumftances, 
I could not conceive any PoiTibility, but that thejj||| 
mufl be all loll : and indeed, to the laft Year of i^^l 
being in this Ifland, I never knew of any that wert ' 
iaved out of this Ship; I only faw the Body of a 
Boy which was drove on Shore, but I could not diff 
cover by him what Nation they were. 

The Sea was now very calm, which tempted me to 
venture to the Wreck, not only in Hopes to r^'^f 
fomethingi wanted, butlikewife, if there were 
body left alive in the Ship, to endeavour to fii^^ 
their Lives. This Refolution fo far prevailed, thal^B 
went Home immediately and got every Thing read^l 
for the Voyage, and accordingly, after a great deal 
of Labour, Hazard and Difficulty, I at length got 
to the Wreck, which I beheld with the greateft Pity 
and Concern. By her built I found flie was a Span- 
iard, and had endured a terrible Conflift before Ihc 
was loft. 

When I was come near to her, I faw a Dog on 
Board, who no fooner faw me, but he fell a yelping 
and howling, and I no fooner called to him but the 
poor Creature jumped into the Sea, and fwam tome, 
and I tool: him into the Boat almoft famifhed. When 
J came into the Ship, the firil Sight that I beheld was 
two drc^vnied Men in the Arms of eack other : T 

fxDund 



»/■ ROBJMSQN CrPSOE. 



57 



found fhe was a rich Ship, and, as I had Reafon to 
believe, bound Home from the Spanijh Wejl-hidic:. 
What became of the rell of the Sailors, I could not 
tell, there being none of their Bodies on Board, be- 
fides the tvio bt^fore mentioned. 




As I WPS mmmaglrg about her, I found feveral- 
Things I wanted, 'viz,, a Fire Shovel and Tong?, z 
Brafr Kettles, a Pot to make Chocolate, fome Horns^ 
of fine glazed Powder, a Gridiron, and feveral other 
Neceflari€?> * Thefe I put on Board my Boat. teo;c- 
the? with 2 Cliefts, ' and a Cafl>: of Rum, and after a 
great deal Toil ar^d Diihcaltv, I got fafe back to the 
lAand. 

I rcpofed myfelf ihr.t Night in the Boat, and the 
.::t Day landed my Carc^oc, )vhich i can-JcirtO'iuy 



58 Tbe Life and Adventures \ 

Grotto, and having examined ray E^efls, I found 
in the two Chells feveral Things J wanted, particu- 
larly fome Shirts and Handkerchiefs : I found alfo 
three Bags of Pieces of Eight, all which I would 
willingly have given for five or fix Pair of EngUJh 
Shoes and Stockings. 

After I had flowed all this new Cargoe in my 
Cave, I made the befl of my way to my Caftle, and 
found every Thing as I left it, fo that I had nothing 
to do but to repofe myfelf, and take Care of my 
Domeftics : And now, wanting nothing that was 
requifite for the Support of Life, I might have liv'd Jj 
very quiet, had not my Apprehenfion of the Savages^' 
.diflurbed me; upon which Account I feldom went 
far abroad, if I did it was to the Eajlem Part oBthe 
jfland, where 1 well knew they never camejpnd 
for two Years I lived in this anxious Conditio}?Sny 
Head being always full of Projeds how 1 might get 
away from this defolate Place. 

As f obferved before, tho' f was tolerable fecr.„ 
againft the reach of Want, and had all the Diverf idT^M 
the Nature of the Ifland would allow, yet the^H 
Thoughts of my Deliverance were ftill uppermoil, as ^ 
my Reader will eafily perceive by the following 
. Relation, in which I (hall give a ihoit Account of 
the Schemes and Projects 1 had for my Efcape. 

As i lay in my Bed one Night in March, the 24th 
Year ^of my Solitude, I ran through all the Accounts 
of my Life, from my very firll Remembrance, to 
the prefent Time, and found all along that the Pro- 
vidence of God had been exceeding kind and mer- 
ciful tome; and when I confidered more particu- 
lar] y, how many Dangers I had pafTed, it could 
not but make me devoutly thankful to my great 
DoliVv^er, v/ithout whofe Afhftance I mull have 
inevitably pcrilheJ. 

After . 



<?/RoBiNSON Cruso?. S9 

After I had thus briefly debated with myfelf my 
prefent and former Condition, I began next to con- 
fider the Nature of thefe Savages, and the Country 
where they inhabited, how far it was to the Place 
from whence they came, and what Boats they had 
to bring them over hither ; and at the fame Time 
had fome Notions to go over to their Side to fee 
what Difcoveries 1 could make. 

I had Notions, that if by any Method I could get 

upon the Continent, I might in Time meet with a 

Ship to carry me to Europe; for here I looked upon 

myfelf to be the moil mifsrab^e Man living, and 

)refeiTed even Death itfelf to my flay in this defolate 

'" yid. Whilft my Thoughts were thus confufed, 

' no Notion of any Thing but my Voyage to 

'ontinent ; and indeed, fo much was I infl-^med 

'thefe new Notions, that I, in a great Meafuvc, 

>t my Duty to God, and was reduced almoll to 

Ttale of Difparation; and after manvThoughts and 

rugglings in my Mind, I came at length to this 
!'onclufron, 'viz. That the only probable way ! had 
to efcape, was to get one of thefe Savage"^, which « 
could find no other way to bring about, than by ven- 
turing my Life to fave him from the jaws of tlje 
Devourers ; wftich 1 thought muft inipirc liim Vvidi 
Gratitude to his Preferver. 

Thefe were my fixt Refolutions ; but T think it wa? 
atleail a Year and a half before I conld find an Op- 
portunity of putting them in Execution. To the bell: 
of my Remembrance, it was the 3d Day of //^/v/, 
early in the Morning,, when I was furprized with the 
Sight of five Canoes all on the Shore together, or; 
my Side of the Ifiand, and the Croature;^ th.it be- 
longed to them, all landed, and out of'v^ight. 

At firtt 1 thought all thele Boats mnU bring toe 
many to be attacked by a fmgle 



go ne Life and Adventures 

in a mighty Confufion what was beft to be done 4- 
however, being impatient to fee fomething of their 
Management, I took my Guns and went fecretly to 
the Top of the Hill, where, by the help of my Per- 
fpeftive Glafs, I obferved no lefs than Tliirty fitting 
round a Fire, and feafting upon what Meat they had 
dreiTcd ; what it was I could not dillinguifli ; but 
they were all dancing around the Flames, and ufing 
many frightful and barbarous Geftures 




*^Vhilft I was looking earneftly on thefe Wretches, 
I could difcern them dragging two miferable Crea- 
tures out of one of their Boats. It was not long be- 
fore I faw one of them knocked dow n, and three or 
four of them fell to cutting and mangling his Body, 
in order tc. devour him, as they had done the former. 

Whilil 



(?/ Ro Birrs 01^ Crusoe. 6t 

Whilft the other miferable Creature f!ood ex'pefk- 
ing every Moment the Fate of his Companion, in- 
fpired with the Hopes of Life, he gave a fudden flart 
from them, and ran v»^th great Swiftnefs towards my 
Caftle. 1 ^^'as under great Apprehenfions that he 
would fly to my Grove for Prote-ftion. I was glad to 
fee he had the Heels of them, and frcm his Swiftnefs 
concluded, he would prefently loofe Sight of them, 
and fave his Life. There was a little Creek juft be- 
fore him, where I was afraid the poor Viclim would 
be taken, if he could not Swim ; but it happened he 
^ ^am very well, and foon got over, and ran again 
[th his former Strength and Swiftnefs. Two of 
that followed him, fwam over after him, but 
ler that could not fwim, returned back to his 
>anions. And now or never, I thought it v/as 
'ime to procure a Savage for my Companion. 
>rdingly, with all the Speed I could, I came 
from the Rock, took up my two Guns, refol- 
ig to fave the Viiftim, ifpofTiblej and in order to 
came a nearer Way, and put myfelf between the 
Purfuers and the Purfued, beckoning to the latter to- 
Hand Hill, who, }'ou muil imagine, was not a little 
furpriz'd at me. The firft Purfuer I knocked down 
with the Stock of my Piece, and the other, who I 
perceived was preparing his Bow and Arrow to 
fhoot me, I let fly at him, and killed him Dead up- 
on the Spot. 

The poor frighted Indian was amazed to fee the- 
Fire, and hear the Noife of the Gun ; however, I 
made S'igns to him to come to me, which at length 
he did, but not without a great deal of Fear and 
Trembling, being afraid, I behevc, I (hoiild kill 
him too. I did all I could to convince him of his 
Miftake, and at length fo far convinced him by the 
Signs I made him, that hecamc to me, and threw 
liimfelf at my Feet, and took'one of my Feet, and put 
upon 



^^62 ne Life and Adventures 

upon his Head, which was a Token, it feems, of his 
-Refolution to be my Slave for ever ; upon which I 
took him up, made much of him, and encouraged 
him in the beil Manner \ could. 

BythisTime I faw the Savage I had knocked down 
began to recover, and was fitting upright, which 
made my new Slave as much afra-d as before, but I 
foon prevented his Fright, by prefenting my Piece at 
him; but my Savage oppofed my ihooting him, 
making a Sign to me to lend him my Sword which 
hung by my Side ; and no fooner had I granted his 
Requeft, but away he runs to his Enemy, and verj 
dexteroufly, at one Blow, cut oft his Head, and, 
a Token of Triumph, brought it me, together 
my Sword, and laid it at my Feet. 

The greaft AftoniHiment my new Servant 
was, how i kiird the Savage at that Diftance, 
out a Bow aud Arrow ; and to fatibfy himfelf infhat 
Matter, he made Signs to me to let him go and vicAv 
the Body, which I granted; After he had tun ,r 
him, and viewed the Wound the Bullet had mader^™ 
his Breaft, he took up his Bow and Arrows, an^H 
came back to me again, making Signs to mc to gi\ie ^ 
him leave to bury him, which (with my Conient) he 
performed with wonderful Dexterity. 

When I perceived he had done, I called him away, 
and carried him diredly to my Cave, where I gave 
him Viduals, and then pointed to him to he down . 
upon fome Straw, and take a little Rell. He was a 
very handfome, well proportioned Fellow, and in all 
Refpefts the mofl beautiful Lidiatz I ever faw. 

I think he had not ilept above an Hour, before he 
came out of the Cave to me as I was milking my 
Goats, and again threw himfelf at my Feet, and 
put my other Foot upon his Head, as a further To- 
ken, that he intended to be my Slave for ever. 

That 





^/Robinson Crusoe. (^ij^ 

That Night we flayed in the Cave, but early the 
next Morning I made Signs to him to rile and go 
with me ; and withal, made him to underftand that 
his Name was to be Friday, (it being on that 
Day I faved his Life) and that I intended to give 
kim fome Cloaths to hide his Nakednefs. As we 
pafTed by the Place where the two Savages were 
buried, he pointed diredly to the Graves, and let 
me know by his Geilures, that he intended to dig 
them up and devour them ; upon which I let him fee 
I was extremely difpleas'd at it, and made him come 
^away, which he did with the greateft Reverence. 

In our Way to my Callle, we went to the Top of 

"Till to view if the Savages were gone, and find- 

"ley were, we refrefhed ourfelves for that Night, 

'le next Morning I refolved to arm myfelf, and 

jjffmy Man with me, and go to view the Place 
w^erc they committed their Barbarities. When we 
raihe upon the Spot, it is impoflible to exprefs the 
orrorablenefs of the Sight! Here lay the Flefh and 
J^ntrals, and there the mangled Limbs of Human 
Creatures ; in ihort, it filled me with the greateft 
Horror and Deteftation. Friday gave me to under- 
lland that there was three there facrificed,and if I had 
notreicued him, he had been the fourth. I made 
him gather up the Fragments and lay them in a heap, 
and made a Fire upon them, and burnt them to 
Afhes ; and ftill I found my Man had a hankering 
after fome of the Flefh, which I refented with the 
utmofl Abhorrence, and made him underftand that 
if ever 1 found him guilty of any fuch Inhumanity, 
I would certainly fhoot him. 

After this we wctit to my Caftle, where I 
cloathed my Man as well as the Nature of the Place 
and my Circumftances would admit. He feemed at 

firft 




^4 The, Life and AdvefUares 

firft a little uneafy and awkward in hk new Drefs ; 
but after he had wore them four or five Days, he 
grew familiar with them, andfeemed extremely well 
fatisfied. Now my next Concern was how I might 
lodge him well, and yet be eafy myfelf ; and in or- 
der to this, I erefted him a little ^I'ent between rny 
two Fortifications, fecured my Arms every Night, 
and made every Thing fo fafe, that it wafe impoili- 
hit for me to be furprized ; though 1 muft at the 
fame Time own there was no need of thefe Cautions ; 
for nevei' Man was blefTed with a Sen'^ant that loved 
and obeyed him with greater Tendemefs, Fidelity, 
and AfFedion, which endear'd me to him extremej' 
ly^and induced me to think how I might belt ac 
mjH^elf tahim. 

I had not b.?en above two or three Days i; 
Caftle, but I firft propofed to bring him off fr 
barbarous Inclinations to Human Flefh; in orde| 
which, I ufed feveral Experiments, till the 
Creature, who had the moft dutiful and tender 
gard to every Thing I commanded him, and inde 
did not want good Senfe, was perfedly weane 
from his vicious Inclination and had as deep and fixed 
an Abhorrence of any fuch barbarous Proceedings 
as myfelf; he fell upon his Knees, made all Signs 
©f his Averfion he poffibly could, pronouncing, ma- 
ny Things I did not underftand, only in the main, 
I found that his only Appprehenfion was from the 
Fear I fhould fhoot him, for the Thoughts of the 
Gun, and the Manner of the Execution it did, were 
Hill in his Mind, and he could by no Means be re- 
conciled to it; he would never fo much as touch 
it with his Finger for feveral Days, and, J bel?evc, 
if I had not preven*-Gd it, he, would have payed it; 
a fort of Adoration : He would go as often as my 
Back- was' turned, and talk to it in his ovv'n Dialedt ;, 
tlie Intent of which, was to defire it not to kill him. ■ 



d^H 

ane^H 

Bxed ^ 



^/Robinson Crusoe. ^ 

'I had killed a Kid v,hich we brought home, an(i\ 
the next Day I gave him feme of the Flefh, both 
boiled and roafted, with which he was fo much de- 
lighted, that he ga\'e me Signs, (which I perfidly 
underlie- )d) that whilfthe lived, he would never more 
eat any Man's Flefh upon any Account. And row I 
began to thJHk it high Time to fet my Servant to 
Work, efpc'cially conlidering I had now two Mouths 
to feed inltead of one. I found him extraoramary 
quick and handy in everj^ Thing I fet liim about, and 
he had the Senie to make me underfland that I had 
more Labour upon my Hands on his Account than I 
had had for myfelf,and thst he would fpare no Pains 
or Diligence in any Thing I fiiould command or di- 
ed ; and indeed, th€ Fellow's Honefty and fimple 
Integrity grew fo confpicious, I really began to love 
iiiiil intively j and, for his Part, I am well aflbred 
ere was no Love loft. I had a Mind to know if 
..e had any Inclination to his own Country; and 
i^aving learnt him as much EngUJh as poffible,! aficed 
,,:.unfeveral Queftiens, which he anfweredvery per- 
tinently, particularly, I afked concerning the Nature 
and Dirtance of his Country, and thek Manner of 
Fighting, "jr'f. The Fellow had a very good natural 
Genious, and would often anfwer my Queftions with 
very quick and furprifmg Turn? ; and when I fpoke 
about Religion, he heard me with greateft Reverence 
and Attention, and would often furprize me with 
important and unexpedled Queilions ; and, in Truth, 
I fpared no Pains to inrtru6l him according to the 
beil of my Knowledge. I aiked him who made him 
and all the World ; as foQn as»he underflood me, he 
anfwered, Old Benamuckee-, but all that he could fay 
of him was, that he v/as very old, miuch older than 
the Sc^ and Land, tJie Moon and Stars, and that 
he lived a great way beyond them all. 

When 



J 6 The Life and Adventures 

When I had enquired into the Manner of ferving 
their God, I proceeded, according to the heft of my 
Knowledge, to inftrufl him in the Principles of the 
Chriftian Religion, and laid before him feveral of 
the chief Truths, upon which it was grounded, to 
which he gave the greateft Attention, and w ould 
aflc very pertinent Queftions, by the way of Informa- 
tion : In fhort, I foon perceived this poor Creature 
every Day improved by my Inftru<ftions, and my 
Endeavours to inftrucl him,were a great Help to my- 
felf, and brought thofe Things frefh into my Me- a 
mory, which the length of Tim.e had almofl: defaced ; Jk 
fo T had the greatest Reafon to blefs Providence, for jjB 
fend him to me in this State of Solitude. His Con ^"■" 
pany alla>ed the Thoughts of my Mifery, a- 
made my Habitation more comfortable, than it had 
been ever fmce my firfl coming to the Iflahd. It 
brought into my Mi-nd daily Notions of Heaven and 
Heavenly Things, and filled me with a fecret Joy, 
that I was brought unto this Place, which I once 
thought the moft miferable Part of the Univerfe. ^ 

By this Time friday began to fpcak tolerable V 
^ngUp, though a little broken. We convcrfed ^ 
with great Familiarity, and I took a particular Plea- 
fure to relate to him the feveral Accidents and An- 
venturesofmy Life; I foon made him. underftand 
that wonderful Miftery {as he conceived it) of the 
Gun-powder and Bail, and taught him to flioot, 
which he foon learnt to the greateft Perfeftion. I 
gave him a Knife, which he was very proud of; 
likewife, a Belt, and a Hatchet, which he hung to 
his Girdle, which, with the reft of his Accoutrements, 
made him look like Don ^ixot, when he went to 
Engage the Wind-mills. After this, I gave him a 
particular Defcription of Europe^ and old Englandy 
the Place of my Nativity, above all the reft. I 

alfo 




<?/ Robinson Crusoe. dV 

alfo gave him an Account of my being Shipwreck'dN 
and carried him and llievved him the Ruins of the 
Ship's Boat, which, tho' it was almoft rotten and 
fallen to Pieces, yet 1 could perceive he took parti- 
cular Notice of it, which made me afk him the Rea- 
fon why he pondered fo much, O Majier^ (fays he) 
Tf!e fee like Boat come to Place at my Nation. 1 1 
prefently cam.e into my Mind, that this mull be fome 
European Boat that was forced in there by Strefs of 
Weather, after the lofs of the Ship, which put me 
upon an Inquiry, what fort of a Boat it was, and 
who cam.e in it ? 

Friday anfwered, with great Warmth and Ardour, 
'lajier, ive fanje White Mans from d^'o-jjn: Upon 
r aflced him, if there were any White Mans, 
s he caird'em, in the Boat; Tes^yes, (faid he) the 
Boatful/, 'very full. White Mans ; how many Friday^ 
•id 1); whereupon he numbered his Fingers, and 
•unteJ 17. Then I afk'd him what became of 'em 
', ;ind whether they lived or not ? He reply 'd, 
^^TJ, Mafrer, they all li've, they he li've ""mong my 
^K^ation. Upon wJiich it came into my Thoughts, 
^thattliefe mull: be the Crew that belonged to the Ship 
that was caft away upon my Ifland, who, rather 
than be devoured in the Ocean,had committed them- 
felves to Providence, and were drove afliore among 
the wild Indians. The Notions I had of their Cruel- 
ties, made me afk Friday, how it came to paft they 
did not kill and .eat them ? No, no, (faid Friday) they 
7iot kilTem, they make Brother nx'ith ''em : My Nation, 
toother Nation, no eat Mans, hut nuhen Mans make 
M^ar Fight. As much as to fay, that neither his, nor 
any other Nation, ever eat their Fellow Creatures, but 
fuch whom their Law of Arms allow'd to be devoured, 

and 



6S ns Life and Adfventures 

and they were only thofe wiiofe Misfortune it \vas 
to be made Prifoners of War. 

Some Time after this, upon a very clear Day,my 
Man and I v/ent up to the Top of a very high Hill, 
on X^^Eaji Side of the Ifiand, from whence I had 
once before feenthe Continent in America^ I could 
not diredly tell what was the ?vlatter, for Friday fell 
a jumping and dancing, as if he were Mad • I aflc'd 
him the Reafon of his Joy, O Joy! (faid he) O Glad! 
^hercfee my Country, there my Naticn, there /I've 
White Maris altgether. Upon which I could not 
help thinking, but that if he could by any Mean* 
get Home, he \vould forget all I had done for h 
andj perhaps, bring his Countrymen into my Iflah* 
to deilroy Kie : But to my Shame I fpeak it, my Jea- 
loufy was very ill grounded ; for the poor Fellow 
was of a quite cliiFerent Difpofition, and, as I found 
afterwards, would have freely loft his Life, rather 
than left me, or done me the leaft Injury. 

Soon after this, I afked him if he had not a Defire 
^ to go into his own Country ? 2V, (faid he) me ?m. 
O glad to be at my oivm Nation y me go, if you gOy mi 
no go, ifyoufiay. I go, FWr/^), (fays I) what fhall 
do there ? He anfwered, O Majhr, you do great deal 
much Good, you teackee all de 'wild Mans to he good 
tame Mans, you learn them foher, li<ve good Life, to 
kncHM God, and p- ay God. Alas ! poor Friday (faid I) 
that's out of my Power, neither will I venture among 
them ; no, you fhall go, and leave me alone, as I 
was before I favedyour Life ! 

.Never was any Creature more Thunder-ftruck, 
than Friday ^K^s at thefe Words, efpecially when I 
told him he fhould be at Liberty to go as foon as the 
Boat was ready to carry him ; he puts one of his 
Hatchets into my Hand, faying. Only kill Friday, 
Friday care not linje long : But what muft I kill vou 

for ? 



lot ^ 



N 



^/■Robinson Crusoe. 69 

for ? (fays I) Ah! dear Majler, ^what made you Friday 
f ewe from eat a me up, fo keep long Friday, make Fri- 
day loi'e Gody and not lo-ve Benamuckee ; end non.o 
Friday /i"/;^ a'^vayy ne'ver fee Friday more ! When he 
fpoke this, the Tears ran down fo plentifully, that 
1 had much ado to refrain from weeping myfelf ; I 
comforted him in the beft Manner I could, telling 
him, if he was willing to ftay with mc, I would ne- 
ver part with him as long as I lived. 

In fhort, the Fellow's Honefly and fmcere Beha- 
viour, foon convinced me of the unreafonablehefs of 
Lmy Jealoufy, and he became more dear to me than 
^^r. Indeed, I thought that if ever I could get to 
the Continent, and join thofe white Men, Friday 
had mentioned, it might be a Means to further my 
Efcape ; in order to this, Friday and I went into the 
Woods to look out a large Tree to build a Canoe, 
which v>e afFefted in above fix Weeks, and with 
.Trouble and Pains got her into the Water. I 
ery wellpleafed at the launcing this little Man 
ar of mine, which Friday managed with great 
'exterity, and alTured me it was, in all Points, large 
nough to caiTy us over, and if I thought proper, he 
was re^dy to venture with me. 

I liked the Fellow's honeft Propofal, but at the 
fame Time, I thought if I could procure a Mali and 
Sail, it would be better; which, with the greateft 
Difficulty imaginaWe, in about three Months Time, 
I made alhift to patch together; and after that I had 
my Man Friday to inftrud: in the Art of Navigation, 
which, before, he knew nothing of. 

I was now entered in the Twenty-feventh Year of 
my Reign, -or, rather, my Captivity, and kept the 
Anniverfary of my Landing with greater Solemnity 
Jhan ever, having received fudi repeated Signals 

of 




70 Tbe Life and Adventures 

of die Divine Favour, in my Deliverance, Preferva- 
tion and Profperity. 

I now wanted for nothing, and yet ray Mind was 
flill intent upon my Deliverance j and in Truth, I had 
a ftrong Impreffion upon me, that I fhould not be 
another Year in this Ifland ; and ftill I continued my 
Huibandry, and made the neceflary Preparations for 
my future Subfiftance. The Rain Seafon coming 
on, we were forced to continue for the moll Part 
within Doors, having firll made all neceflary Pre- 
parations for the fecurity and fafety of my new Boat, 
till the Months of 'Novhiiber and December, at whicl 
Time I was fully determined to fail over to 
Continent ; and no fooner did it begin to draw 
but 1 began to make Preparation for my intended 
Expedition, and in a Fortnight's Time, I pro^bfed 
to open my little Dock, and let out the Boat for 
that Purpofe. 

One Morning, as I was bufy in making Prepara- 
tions for my Voyage, Friday, whom I had fi^t ti 
the Sea-fide to look for a Turtle, came running. .,i 
a terrible Fright ; fays he, Ihan)ehadlse^:sy yoitS^^^ 
is three or four Canoes upon the Coaji ; and they co^^M 
to look for poor Friday, and •■will eat you as ^vell as ^ 
me, and therefore ou^ muji refolve to fight for our 
Life. Says Friday, trembling, Me nK:ill fight as ^ell 
as 1 can, but I am afraid they are too majiyin Number 
for us ; but I ivill obey your Orders, and lofe the laji 
Drop of my Blood for you. 

Without further Difputes, we fell to loading our 
Arms, and making every Thing ready for the Onfet; 
when we had double loading them, and put every 
Thing in the beft Poilare that could be j 1 took my 
Profpeftive Glafs, and went up to the Top of a 
Hill to try what 1 could difcover ; and i foon perceiv- 
ed there were nineteen Savages, and three Prifoners, 

which 



(?/ Robinson Crusoe. 71 

which T concluded by their Manner of Ading, were 
to be devoured. 

This difmal and inhuman Speftacle, filled me with 
the utmoft Horror and Deteftation ; and the more 
fo, becaufe 1 faw a white Man, which by their 'Ac- 
tions and Preparations, I found was to be the next 
Sacrilice : This made me make all the Speed 1 could, 
being fully determined to deliver him, or periih in 
the Attempt ; fo I gave Friday Orders to follow me 
and to do every Thing that he faw me do. 

When we came to a proper Diftance, undifcovered, 
rave the Word to Friday to fire, as I did the very 
»e Moment. We took our Aim fo well, that 
jn us we killed four, and wounded . three or 
lore. No Man can imagine the Confltfrnation 
[onfufion thefe Savages were iiv, upon this un- 
»d Accident : However, not to give them any 
we took up fome other Arms and kt fly a 
"ime, killed two more, and wounded feveral 
which added fo to their Confufion, that they 
Felling and howling about like mad Creatures. 
hy, (fays 1) take the charged Mufket, and follow 
^ ib (hewing ourfelves to them, and at the fame 
'ime giving a great Shout, we went dire<^ly to the 
Vidim, and imri^diately cut the Bands from his 
Hands and Le-.o, ^^nd lifting him up. I alk'd him 
in the Fortuguexe Language, what he was ; he told 
me in Latin ht w %s a Spaniard, and a Chriftian; and 
after returning tl j belt Acknowledgements he could 
for his Deliverance, he was about to give me an Ac- 
count of his Misfortunes, but 1 prevented him, tel- 
ling him, That njuould be better at atiother Time; and 
further faid, 

Signior, njje ivill talk after^-wards, hut non.v cur Bu- 
Jtnefs is fighting. 1 gave him a Dram and a Piece of 
Bread to refreih him, and then gave him a Sword 

and 



72 ne Life and Adventures 

and Piftol, and bid him do what he could ; and to 
give the Man his Due, no one could behave himfelf 
with greater Courage. In fhort, we fo managed the 
Matter, of Twenty-two Savages, not above three 
or four got into one of their Canoes ; and thofe I 
was refolved to purfue and endeavour to deilroy too, 
if poflible ; accordingly I leaped into one of their 
Canoes, and ordered Friday to follow me : But I was 
no fooner got in, but I faw another poor Creature 




bound Hand and Foot for the Slaughter. I prefently 
helped him up, but he was fo faint and weak, that 
he could neither Hand nor fpeak, but groned fadly, 
thinking he was now to be Sacrificed; I bid Friday 
fpeak to him, and allure him of his Deliverance. 
When lie was a littk recovered, and fat up in 

the 



c/ Robinson Crusoe-. 73 

the Boat, and Friday began to hear him fpeak and 
had looked upon him more fuilv, you cannot ima- 
gine the poor Fellow's Tranfport : At length, when 
he had a little recovered himfelf, he told me it was 
bis Father ; and in Truth he gave fuch uncommon 
Teftimonies of his Duty and Affeftion, that I muil 
needs own I was very much afFefted with it. 

In fhort, with a greit't deal of Difficulty, v/e got 

both my new Guefts home to my Caftle, where I 

made them a handfome Tent, and treated them in 

^the bell Manner my Circumftances would allow. 

And thus like an abfolute King, I governed my 

c Dominions, and finding tliat my new Subjefts 

.^ ^'ery weak, I ordered Friday to kill one of my 

.. and ftewed and boiled the Flefh, and made 

;ii fome very good Broth, and dined with them 

lelf. After Dinner I ordered Friday to go the 

•d of Battle, and fetch home the Arms ; and then 

i ?'*-«/rty aflc his Father, whether he thought it 

for the Savages to outride the Storm, or if 

«^-jt home, whether he thought they would not 
Win great Numbers, and endeavour to deihoy 
PHis Anfwer was, that if they did reach their 
n Country, which he hardly thougiit pofiible, yet 
the Strangenefs of their being attacked, would ccr- 
tamly make them tell the People, that they were 
deftroyed by Thunder and Lightning, and whoever 
went into the Ifland would certainly be deftroyed by 
the Hands of the Gods, and not of Man ; and that 
the Ifland was enchanted; and that the Gods fent 
Fire from above to deftroy all thofe that fhould per- 
fume to land in it. 



D This 



74 2"/^^ ^{/*^ ^^^ Adventures 

l^his Account having freed me of my Apprehen- 
fions, and no Canoes appearing, 1 refolved to pur^ 
fue my intended Voy^e-; Fridays Father having 
ailured me I might depend upon good Ufage from 
the People of his Country. As to the Spaniardy I 
afked him his Opinion ; he told me they were four- 
teen that were caft upon the ' Hand, and that they 
had good Underilandingwith the hdians, but were 
in want of NecefTaries for the Support of Human 
Life ; and that, if I thought proper, he, and the 
old Savage would go over firft, and fettle all Matters 
in order for our Reception ; and at the Tame Time- 
he told me, they would all fwear Fidility to me, and 
own me as their Leader. 

Upon thefe Aflurances, I refolved to fend them 
over ; but when every Thing was ready,j-the S-pavi- 
^r^'ftarted this material Objedlion; Tou hjo^vv. Sir, 
(iayshe) 1 ktio^jj the length of your Stock,^^ind tho' 
you may hat'e enough for us that are not 
yet^ ivhen you cnlargen your Family ^ lamfefi^ 
iip^-ver h( fufficient to Jupport us long-, and ther^ 
Ad'vice is, to nvait another Har^veji, and in 
Time' to prepare as much Ground as poJJibL 
^ve may have Pro'vijions fufficient to carry on our D7^ 
Jign, This Advice I liked extremely, and from that 
• Moment I always fefteemed the Spaniard, and made 
him Privy-Councellor on all Occafions. 

We all four went to Work, and prepared as much 
Ground as would fow tvventy-two Bulhels of Barle}-, 
and fixteen of Rice, which was all the Seed u^e had 
to fpare ; and at the fame Time I took all the Care 
imaginable, to Increafe arid Preferve my Goats, by 
(hooting the wild Dams, arid taking the young- Kids 
and putting them into Inclofures ; and took fuch 
other Meafures, that, by the Blellmg of God, upon 

our 




(?/ R o B I N s o N Crusoe. 7 - 

our Induflry, after Harvert, we, had Provhlons to 
victual a Ship for ajiy V^xtoi uimerica. 




The principal Occafion being thus anfwered, I 
gave my two AmbaiTadors a Muiket each, with 
eight Charges of Powder and Ball, with Provifions 
lit for the Expedition, and away 1 lent tliem. They 
had not been gone a Fortnight, but I began to grow 
impatient for their Return. Whilll my Thoughts -> 
-'were perpetually taken up with the expedation of ■ 
them, a very ilrange Accident happened, whie h was 
firil difcovered by my Man Friday y N^'ho, one Morn- 
ing came running unto me, crying out, They are 
come^ they are come ; upon which 1 jumped from 
my Be(i, and lookmg towards the Sea, I perceived a .; 
D 2 Boat: 



i 



^6 The Life and Adventures 

Boat about a League and a half Diftance, ftanding 
dire^lly in for the Shore. I foon found, that theie 
were none of the Company that I expe6led ; for by 
the Help of my Glafs, I found that this Boat muft 
belong to fome Ship ; which by calling my Eyes a- 
bout, I plainly difcovered lying at Anchor, at fome 
Diftance at Sea, which by the Falhion of her Long- 
Boat, t5c. I concluded muft be an Englijh Veflel. 




Great were my Tranfports upon this unexpefled 
Sight, which brought into my Mind frefh Notions 
of Deliverance ; and yet I had fome cautionary 
Thoughts, which, I confefs, were of Ufe to me after- 
wards. It was not long before I faw the Boat ap- 
proach the Shore, and then I was fully convinced 
tliat they were Englijh. I law fpur of them leap 

* upon 




jrnu|' 



1 



(?/RoRiNsoN Crusoe. "jj 

upon the Shore, and took three out with them, that 
looked like Frifoners, who, I obferved made paiTion- 
ate Gell'jres of Intreaty ; and not knowing what 
the meaning might be, beckoned to Friday, who 
was near me. to go to the Top of the Mountain, aod 
make what Difcoveries he could, when in littltf 
while returning back, O Mafier^ .(fays he) you fee 
Englifh Mar.s cat Piifotiers as ^ujell as Sat'ag'e Mans ! 
But of this I foon convinced him to the contrary ; 
and yet I could nor help thinking, but there muft 
fomething very barbarous in ?Iand. J could 
perceive they had any Fire Arms, but rather 
t they were preparing to kill :i.eir three Com- 
icns with their Swords j aud now it was I lam^.^n .,, 
my want of Power to preferve them. Howev "■ ' ^ 
y great Satisfadion, I found that they turn 
up into the defolate Iflands, as they though 
to be either Starv'd or Devoured by wild Beafts, and 
''iien rambled about the Wood to make Obfervations, 
JI the Tide was gone, and the Boat was aground. 
, In fhort, I confidered what fort of Men I had now 
to deal with, and therefore refolved to a6l v»ath all 
the Caution imaginable, and fo concluded it wa* 
befl not to make any Attempt till it grew dark ; 
but the Day being exceliive hot, I concluded thr* 
vSailors were in courfe laicTin the Shade to Sleeps arri 
perceiving the three poor Difconfolate Creatures fic- 
ting uuder a Tree, atfome fmall Dillarce flom ir.e, 
I made no moie to co, but went up to thein, afkin^ 
them in the Spanijfj Tongue what the)^ were i At 
which they llarted up, and being furpnzed at the 
oddnefs of my Drefs, thvy began to avoid me ; but 
I ca'ljd to them in Englijh, Dont be afraid y far 
you ha-ve a Friend nearer to ycu than you expeci ; 
tell me your Condi tion^ and if it he in mf Po^vjer 
1 ^ilt fer've yr.u faithfulh. Sir, (fay oneof Uiem) 
D 3 the 



75 The Life and Adventures 

the St cry is too long at prefent: Ii^as Majier of that 
Ship that lies yoyider at Anchor^ my Men hanjtng Mu- 
tlnedy^t is aTasoour they hanje put this PaJJ? tiger, jny 
Mate and I on Shore en this TJlaad, ivithout murder- 
ing us, tho''-ive ha've no Profped, hut to perijh here^ 
for-tvcmt of the NeceJJaries of Life. Have tliey any 
i''ire-Arn;s ? (fays 1} 0/dy tico Fuzees, (replied he) 
.i'andone of them is noi'j left in the Boat, and if the tivo 
■de [per ate Rcgw's that areivith them, could be taken, I 
am pretty ^^xell afj'ured, the rejl ivouhl return to their 
Duty. Well, (faid I) let us retire a little farther u 
der the Covering of the Wood, and we will tdk fi 
ther J and there it v< as ! made my Conditions to the: 
i^rj^'hifh they very gratefully and honsftly performed. 
i|! t was not long before we came to a Refolution 
I jP'go and attack the Villains ; the two Men fired on 
I'^iem, and killed one of the Captain's greateft E f'- 
mies, and wounded another ; the refl cried out i jr 
Mercy, which was granted them, upon Condi ti 
they would fwear to be true to him, in helping hi 
to recover his Ship, which they all promifed to 
do, in a folemn Manner ; however, I advifed the 
Captain to keep them bound, and then our next 
Care was to fecure the Boat, without which is was 
jmpoffible to reach the Ship. 

To iliorten the Relation as much as poflihle, we 
concerted all our Meafures fo well, that, at laft, the 
Ship was recovered according to our Wilh ; and now 
there teraained nothing but the difpoliil ©f the Tri- 
foners, the moft: dangerous of which we refolvcd to 
leave on the Tfland. i gave them Arras, and all the 
Neceflaries I had in my CaiRe ; and telling them all 
my whole Story, T charged them to be kind t6 the 
Spaniards, that I had fent for over. They promif- 
ed me very fair, and fo I informed them of every 
Thing neceffary for their Subfiftance; fo taking with 

me 



1, 1 
>etr Jk 

i 

-A. 
on 
on 

a 

doH 

:he'^ 



^/■Robinson Crusoe. 79 

me my Man Friday, my Money, my Parrot, i^c, 
I went on Board, where the Captain treated me afs 
his Dehverer, and behaved himfelf to me with the 
utmoil Gratitude and Civility. Upon the i 2th of 
December, 1 686, we let Sail, and landed in England 
the nth oi June, 168;', after ! had been abfent 
from my Native Country upwards of thirty -five 
Years. 




After my Arrival, and I had a little refreflied my- 
felf, I began fo enquire into the State of my Aiiairs. 
I found my firll: Captains Widow alive, but "in. ve- 
ry mean Circumftances. Soon after I went into 
7V/y2/;r, where l found my Family in general either 
dead or loll, fo that i knew not where to find them. 
I found that there was no Provifion made for me, 
D 4 upon 



So ne Life and Adventures 

uron which I took iry Man Friday and went to 
Ltjion, in order to find oi^ the Portugue-ze Captain, 
who took me on Board^Dn the Coaft of Jjhca ; 
and to learn from hi;rf, what was become of my 
Plantation at the BfhJiJs. According to m.y Wifli, 
after feme little S^arch„ I found him out, v.'ho gave 
me a very fatisfa(5lory Account of all Matters, more 
particularly of my Plantation in the Braftis, which 
had been fo honeftly managed in my Abfence, that 




beyond myExpe<ftations,I found myfelf v,orth 4000/. 
Sterling ; with which, as foon as pofiible, I refolved 
to make the beft of my Way to Englandy and by the 
Advice of the Captain, I was perfuaded to go by 
Land, which had like to have proved fatal to me, 
and all that were in my Company; for the vSnows 
being fallen, the Wolves and Bears were driven out 

of 



of Robinson Crusoe. > 8i 

of the Woo^s ; and though we were more than 
t\i?enty of us together, they fet upon us feveral 
Times ; and indeed, it was not without the greatefl 
Hazard and Difficulty we preferved ourfelves from 
being devoured ; the particular Relation of which 
would be too long to trouble the Reader with. 

In our further Faflage through France^ we met 
with nothing uncommon or remarkable ; we got 
fafe to Paris ; and after a (hort ilay there, we went 
to Ccd.hisy and landed at Do^vcrxho. 1 4th of 7^»««0'> 
in a very cold Seafon. 

When I came to London^ I found my Bills of Ex- 
^ange all arrived, and the Money ready to be pay- 
" at Sight, which when I had received, it came 

[o my Mind to return to Lijlony and from thence 
le Brajilsy to look after my Plahtation ; but up- 

[fecond Thoughts I concluded it beft to fell it ; 
upon this Account I thought it proper to write 
'my Correfpondent at Lijhon, and defire his Advice 
id Affiftance, who readily gave me his Promife to 
lo all he could for me ; and in Truth, as I after- 
wards found, he acquitted himfelf to my in every 
Particular, with the greateft Juftice and Integrity. 

In fhort, he fold my Eftate for me to the bell 
Advantage, and remitted to me for it Bills for three 
Hundred and Twenty Pieces of Eight, a Sum much 
greater than I expeded. And now I began to 
tnink it high Time to fettle myfelf. Providence hav- 
ing made fuch a plentiful Provifion for me, that I 
wanted nothing to make myfelf as happy as I could 
wilh. 

Having cafl my Anchor, and for the prefent bid 
adieu to all Foreign Adventures, I bad no other Care 
or Concern upon mc, but the Educationof my Bro- 
ther's two Sons y one of them I breed a Gentleman, 
D 5 and 



82 The Life and Adventures 

an4 the other I bred an able Sailor ; aivl foon after- 
wards married a virrtious young Gentlewomaa oi a 
good Family, by whom I had two Sons and a 
Daughter, but (he dying, I grew Difconfolate and 
MelanchoUy, and, at the Iniligation of my Nephew, 
refolved I would once more mak« a Voyage to the 
Eaji-Indqsy which I did in the Year 1689, and in 
my Paflage vifited my Ifland. A fulj and particakr 
Account of which I intend Ihall be th^ Subjea of 
the fecond and third Volume of my Narr^ive. 




FARTHER 



ADVEISITURES 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe. 

Va t. II. 



Containing a full ACCOU.N T of his 

Travels and remarkable Tranfadions, 
both by Sea and Land. 

^Kli yr Y new Kingdom ran continually in my MinJ^ 
W J.VX ^^^'^ took up my Thoughts, Day and Night, 
r infomuch, that my Wife took Notice of it, and 
weuld often afk me the Reafon of my extraordinary 
Thoughtfulnef>-, fappofmg my Marriage with h^jr 
might be the Caufe. Her tender and endearing Ex- 
preffions, together with the Concern • had for the 
Prefervation of my Family, at length brought me to 
aRefolution, tO fettle myfelfin fomc fixt Way of 
Living; accordingly, 1 bought a little Farin in 
Bedfordjhirey and foon provided me a Stock, 
with all other impliments fit to manage it to the 
bell Advantage, in this rural Retirement, \ be- 
gan to think myfelf as Happy as 1 could wiih, 

when 



§4 ^^^ Life and Adventures 

when on a fudden all my Happinefs was deftroyed 
by the unexpected Death of my Wife. 

Her Death gave me a fort of Contempt of the 
World, and filled me full of different Thoughts 
and Inclinations. My Country Life grew burthen - 
fome to me ; and in Ihort, I left my Farm, left ofF 
Houfekeeping, and in a few Months after, returned 
to Londun ; but there I could find nothing to enter- 
tain and divert my Melancholy. It was now the 
beginning of the Year 1693; when my Nephew a 
whom I had bread up to the Sea, was returned from J$ 
his Voyage, Captain of the Ship he went out in; who ' 
corTiing to me one Morning told me, it was propofed 
to him by fome Merchants, to make a Voyage to 
the Eaji- Indies y and if I would go he would undeir 
take to land me upon my Ifland, that I might have 
an Opportunity to enquire in the State of my new 
Kingdom. 

Juft before he came to me, it came into m-^ 
Thoughts to get a Patent, and fill my lHand wf 
Inhabitants. kVhat De^vil, fays \,fent you either ^n 
this Mejfage ? And tho' I liked the Motion, yet 
would not let him know it at firft; however, aft^^ 
a htrle Paufe, I told him if he would fet me down, 
and call for me at his Return, I would certainly go 
v.^ith him. As to calling for me as he came back/ he 
told me it v/as impradieible : But, fays he, I ikHI 
tell ycu n.vhat njue can do ; We -may put a Sloop ready 
framed on Board, nuhich may he eajily put together at 
iuy Time, .a?td you may return at your Phafurc. 

I was r-)t long in forming my Refolucion, but 
:>o;iirary to the Advice of all my Friends, I was fully 
iifcrerniincd to undertake die Voyage, and in order 
to :'t I made my Will, and put all my Affairs in the 
bcft Pofiare I could poflible, and fo with my trufty 
Servant Friday, in the beginning of January, 1694, 

I went 



rn^^ 

m 

rt€rV 



of Robinson Crusoe. S^ 

I went on Board, and took with me feveral Artificers, 
v^ith a good Cargoe, for the better flocking my 
Ifland. 

We had not been long out at Sea, but we were 
overtaken by a Storm, which drove us upon the 
Coafl of Ireland, as far as Gal'way, ' where we were 
obliged to flay twenty Days for a Wind. On the 
5 th o{ February y the Wind prefented, and we had 
a very good Gale for feveral Days. On the 20th in 
the Evening the Mate called out, that he faw a 
Flafh of Fire, and heard a Gun, upon which we all 







■^■fw?!^^^"'^^^^^^'''^^^^'^^ rjsj;;^^..y^;c-^ 




^ |^^?^^^^:3SS*^ 

run to the Quarter-Deck, from whence at a Pittance 
v,e faw a terrible Fire, which, from oar Reckonir.g 
we concluded could be no other than a Ship that had 
taken Fire at Sea, and that it could not be far ctf 



bv 



rS6 The Life and Adventures 



., by the Report of the Guns, which we heard feveral 
( Times. We made to it with all our Sail, and foon 
perceived it was a great Ship, burning in the middle 
of the Sea : 1 immediately ordered five Guns to be 
fired, that the poor People might perceive that there 
was Deliverance at Hand, who confequently might 
endai>ger their Lives in their Boats ; nor was it long 
before the Ship blew up. 

We hung out our Lanthorns, and about Eight in 
the Morning, when it> began to be Light, we favv 
two Boats making towards us, and we made a Signal 
for them to C':>me on Board, and took them all up, 
j being Men, Women and Children, in all 64. l\ 
\ was a. French Ship of 300 Tons, bound from Canada,] 
} and by the Negligence of the Steerfman, it v.'t 
;, fet on Fire m the Steerage; fo that in all ProbabilityJ 
if Providence had not fent us to their Afiiftance, thej 
had every Soul perilhed. 

Never was People, certainly, fo overjoy 'd as thefe 
. poor Creatures were. Among the Pailengers there' 
were two Priefts, an old one and a young one ; the* 
old one was a llupid old Fellow, but the young one 
was a very modeil fine Gentleman. After their 
Surprize was pretty well over, and they had been 
refrelhed in the beft Manner our Ship would allow,. 
next Morning the Captain, and one of the Priefts, 
defired to fpeak with me, and offered us the Money 
and Jev/els they had faved, which I refufed, telling 
them. Our Bitjinefs ivas to fa<ve them, and7iot pliauier 
them. They told us, that then all that they had 
to defire of us was, to fet them on Shore fomewhere 
in our PafTage. As to Landing, we told them, that 
being bound to the Eaji-indies, we could not do that 
v.'ithout chan?;:'ig our Courfe, and that we could 
notjuftify; but vve would carry them, till we met 
with a Ship bound .either to England or 'France, 

tliat 



^Z* Robinson. Crusoe. Sy 

that would take them on Board ; however our Provi- 
fions beginning to fall Ihort, we reiblved to lancj 
them at ISlenxfoundlandy \shich was not much out of 
•ur Way ; and according as we propofed, in about 
a Week's Time, we came to the Banks oi'Nenvfound- 
landy where they hired a Bark to carry them to 
France, all but the young Prieft, who chufe to go 
with us, and two or three of the Sailors. 
^ Now dire<Sling our Courfe to the S. S. E. about 
WL twenty I>ays after we met with another Adventure 
Muhat gave us a frefh Opportunity to exeraife our Hu- 
Bftianity, In the Latitude of 27, we faw a Sail bear- 
^^^g towards us, that had loll all her Mafts, and fir- 
ing a Gun in Token of Diftrefs ; the Wind being at 
iV. we foon came to fpeak with her, and found her 
. to be a Ship of Brijiol, bound home from Barhadoes, 
that had been driven out of the Road by a furious 
Hurricane, They had been toiTed about for feveral 
Days, and were almoft Starved for want of Provifion, 
'laving eat nothing for eleven Days. 

rin this Ship were three PafTengers, a Gentlewo- 
man, her Son, and a maid Servant ; thefe we found 
in a moll miferable Condition that can be imagined. 
I'he Woman died, and it was with the greateit Dif- 
ficulty that we prefen^ed the young Man, and the 
Maid, whom, at their earnefl Intreaty, after we . 
had fupply'd the Ship with what we could fpare, we 
took on Board our own Ship. We were now in 
Latitude of 19, but paffing by fome little Incidents, 
I fhall relate -what is moll remarkable, relating to 
my little Kingdom, to which I was now drawing 
nigh. It was with no fmall Trouble that we got 
to the ^outh Side of my Ifiand ; however, at lall we 
t:ame to Anchor at the Mouth of the litrle Creek, 
and tlien I foon faw my old Callle, and knew per- 
fedlly where I was. 

Whea 



S8 The Life and Adventures 

When I was certain of the Place, I called to Fri- 
da\\ and aficed him if he knew where he was? But 
when he looked a little,he clapp'd hifs Hands,crying, 
OJey! O there! Oyes! O there! Me fee! Me fee! 
There much Men, and there ! And fell a jumping and 
dancing as if he were Mad. 

When the Englijh Antient was fpread, and we 
had iired three Guns, to let them know we wer,e 
Friends, I hung out the White Flag, and fo, with 
the young Prieit and my Man Friday, I went on 
Shore : And who Ihould be the firft Man I fee bu; 
the SpaJ.iard, whofe Life I had faved ; and Friday 
who faw his Father at a Diftance, ran to him wii 
all the Joy imaginable, and embraced him with 
extreme Tendernefs, 

It was the i oth of Jpril, that I fet my Foot on- 
shore the fecond Time, when my faithful Spaniard, 
accompanied by one more, came up to me ; he did 
not know me at firft, but when I had hinted to hi 
who I was, no Man could exprefs, n-or beha 
himfelf with greater Gratitude.' He took me by th 
Hand, and afked me if I would not go and take 
Poireffion of my qM Habitation, where 1 found they 
had made confiderable Improvements. I afked him 
feveral Queilions, and he as readily anfwered me^ 
telling me withal what ftrange Confufion they had 
had with the EngliJJjmen^ who defigned to have mur- 
dered them : While we were talking, the Man 
whom he had fent, returned with eleven more, 
Thofe, fays he, are fame of thcfe that o^ve their Lives 
to ycur Goodnef. And after he had made them fen- 
fible who I was, they all faluted me in a very grace- 
ful and handfome Manner, 



Before 



r,e 

th Jk 

Dn^H 

i 






^ Ro B I NSON Cr U so E. 89 

Before I relate what happened in the If]and, as it 
was reported by the Spaniard, my Govf-rnor, I muft 
not omit a btory, which I omitted in my former 
Narrative. Jull before we weighed Anchor, there 
happened a Quarrel on Board, which by the Care of 
the Captain, was timely prevented, tho' not with- 
out fome Difficulty ; and indeed fo far it proceeded, 
thut two Fellows that had been the. Ringleaders, 
found Means in the Night, to get fome Arms, and 
the Ship's Boat, and got away to the Illand;, and 
joined their Brother Rogues ; fo that now there w-v^re 
Ive Englijh in the Ifland, which, as the Spaniard 
)orts in the following Narration, which was the 
lufe of great Diforder and Confufion amongil 
lem. 




Ihe 



go The Life and Adventures 

Tbe Spaniacd'j Relation of what happened 
in the IJland, from niy Departure^ till 
my feco^d Landing. 

YO U may remember. Sir, you fent me on a 
Voyage, and indeed, i was not a little fur- 
prized to find at my Return, that you had left us. 
We had a very good Paffage, and indeed my Coun- 
tryn-ien were overjoyed to find i had fo miraculoufly 
efcape ; and when i had fhcwed the Arms and Am- 
munition wliich ' had brought, they were traofport-J 
ed to the higheft .Degree. After a little Stay, wegoj 
what we could from the Savages, made bold witi 
two of their Canoes, and fo came all of us over t^ 
the Ifland. Where we were no fooner Landed, bi 
we found the EngiijKffnen had quarrelled with one 
another, and had attempted to murder and deftro) 
their Fellows, and were oft^n very near putting theirl 
wicked Practices in Execution. 

One Day it happened, that as two of my Spam- 
ards were in the Wood, one of the fobereft of the 
Er.g!i/kmen^ came up to them, and made heavy 
^iCompiaints how cri^lly they were ufed by their 
Countrymen, and that if we did not take them un- 
der our Protedlion, and give them AfTiilance, they 
mull inevitably be ftarved and undone. When they 
came to Supper, one of the Spaniards, in a gentle 
and friendly Manner, began to reprehend the mu- 
tinous Englijhmeny that it was a great Pity their 
Countrymen fliould perifh, and therefore intreated 
them to fufFer their Countrymen to procure their 
Subfiftance, without further Difturbance; to which 
they replied, Let them be Star-ved, and he Dam/iy for 

the 



(7/RoBiNsoN Crusoe. 91 

the IJland is ourSy and if they ivill net Work for us' 
they jhall haije no Share in it. Come, J^ck, (fays 
Atkins) 'vjho Jhall dare to build in our T>o77iinions^ 
I'Athout our Cotifent ? And as we afterwards found 
out they had certainly murdered them, if they had 
not been prevented : However, they pulled down 
their Huts, and did them all the Damage they pof- 
fibly could. When they had done thib Villainy, they 

Iame back to the CafHe, boafting of what they had 
one ; v;4icn one taking Hold of a Spaniards Hat, 
Lirls it round, faying, Ajidyou Seignior ]a.ck Spani- 
mfsa// ha^oe the fame Sauce, if you dont mend your 
manners. This Quarrel in a fhort Time grew fo high, 
mt if we had not timely interjTofed and taken away 
Bir Arms, in all Probability, there had been Murder. 
I'hKie wicked Fellows, perceiving that they had 
made all of us their Enemies, began ta relent, and" 
to^beg for their Arms, but this we pofiitively reflifed,' 
which made thorn fo mad and defperate, that they 
left us in the greateft Paflion imaginable. They 
g^vv ere hardly gone, but their two Countrymen came 
^ to us with their Complaints, telling us • they were- 
ruined; and truly, Sir, we could not help thinking 
it very hard, that nineteen of us fhould, from Time 
to TiHie, be bullied and infulted by three fuch no- 
torious Villains. 

it was with fome DifBculty we perfuaded their 
two Countrymen from purfuing and killing them 
with their Fire Arms, but upon our promifmg that 
they Ihould have Juflice done them, they defifted. 
About five Days after, being almoil Starved, they 
came to us in a very fubmifiive Manner, andbeg'd 
heartily to have their Arms reilored, which, upon 
certain Conditions, we at laft granted : But fo great 
was their Viliainy, that there had not pail abc#\'e three 
Days, but thev began their old Trade again. 

And 



92 ne Life and Adventures 

And now it was that an Accident happened, that 
not only obliged ustolay afide all private Animofities, 
but likewile to provide for our mutual Security. 

One Night as I lay in my Bed, I was diltrubed 
with unufual Fears and Apprenfions: I got up, 
and related the Matter to one of my Spamjh Friends, 
who anfwered, Such Hirzts njcere vot to be /lighted -y 
and advifed me to iocftc out carefully ; adding, '7/^^/ 
certainly there -ixas fome Mi/chief upon the Stock's. 
Accordingly we went up to the Top of the Moun 
tain, where we difcovered a Light, and heard th( 
Voices of feveral Men, which ten ifie5 us exceeding" 
\y. We could not tell what to conjedure, and there- 
fore fent out old Friday as a Spy, to try if he could 
learn who and from whence they were ; he return- 
ed in a very fhort Time, and btought us Word, 7h 
they ixere t-vjo different Parties, of different Natio?! 
and that aft€r a bloody Battle, they }pad landed the> 
by meer Chance, in order to de'voured their Prifo 
and that, he believed, as f con as it ^vas Light, a bloody 
Battle ivouldenfue. Old Friday had hardly ended' 
liis Relat on, butanunufual Noife gave us to under- 
hand, that the Engagement was begun, and no^ 
thing could be more bloody and obftinate, nor Men 
of more invincible ^'pirits, nor more aftive and ready 
in their Way of Fighting. 

We were undoubtedly, Sir, in great Confterna- 
tion, 'left they fhould run into our Grove, and de- 
i^roy what we had, and fo refolved to put ourfelves 
upon our Defence, and flioot the frft that (hould 
approach; and as we apprehended, fo it happened; 
for three of the Army that were vanquifhed, came 
dirc^dy to the Place for Shelter, but thefe I would 
not fufFer to be flain, but had them furprized and 
taken alive; and in Truth, they all proved very ex- 
cellent Servants, and were of great Ufe to us after- 
wards. 



't 

i 






of Robinson Crusoe. o? 

wards. The two Parties being gone off, and the 
Coaft clear, we went to the Place of Battle, where 
we foiind two and thirty dead upon the Spot, witli 
fevcral Bows and Arrows^ and other Sorts of Wea- 
pons, which I ordered to be carefully picked up and 
•carried into our Armory. 

The diimal Spectacle had that Effecl: upon the 

three troublefome Englijhpjev, that much of their 

Ir turbulent Temper began to abate, and began to be 



S^^:i^-^:;i^SS5iJ?5&SSSSsS;SS&§5£S<S^SSSSSSS.^^^^ 




geod Friends, and to think unanimoufly, what was 
bell to be done for our muf.ial Security and Prefer- 
vation. And accordingly, all Hands were at Work 
to ftrengthen the Fortifications of our Caftle, and 
provide a proper Security for all our Provifions, and 
indeed, we did both, with all the Caufion that the 

Nature 



94- ^^^ Life and Adventures 

Nature cf our Ciroumftances would allew. And 
thus for two Years we lived in a very comfof table 
Retirement, having neither feen nor heard any thing 
of the Savages for all that Time. 

But now there happened another Quarrel, which 
might have prov'd of very bad Confequence, if it 
had not been prevented in Time. The three wicked 
:E?zgliJhmen being the Aggreffors, 1 ordered them 
to be difarmed, and left the Cafe to be determine;" 
by the other two Englijh/mi, who fentenced theiA" 
to be Hang'd ; alledging, among other Things, that 
they had a Defign to nmrder us, and only deferred it 
till a proper Opportunity ; upon which I aflc'd Atkins 
who was the Ringleader, what had we done to them 
to deferve to be murdered ? Or what he had to lay 
for himfelf, why we fhould not immediately kill 
him, who had formed fuch a vilainous Dtfignto 
murder us ? in truth, the Etiglijhmen preli'ed very 
hard to HangDne them for an Example to the others ; 
but this 1 would by no Means confentto, upon i:i.: 
Confideration that I owed my Life to an Engli/hmoj^^ 
to- you. Sir, my only Preierver : However, to P^| 
it out of their Power to do us any further Mifchief,^ 
we determined, that for the futu-e they Ihould have 
no Arms of any Sort, and that if they did again 
attempt to give the Society any Manner of Diftur- 
bance, that then we would immediately Ihoot them 
like the wild Beaft. After this I ordered them fome .' 
Provifion for their prefent Subfiitance, and appoin- "^ 
ted them a Place in a remote Part of the J (land, 
where they might Plant an J. make what Improve- 
ments they thought prober. 

They had lived fix Months in this feperate Sta- 
tion, and got in their firft Harveil, which that Sea- 
fon was but very fmall, by reafon they were naturally / 

. not / 



^ RoRINso^x Crusoe. g^ 

not only very idle, but had every Thing to begin 
anew, and what was worfe,were but very indifferent 
Workmen at the befl. Thefe Fellows growing def- 
perate and weary of Working, a new Whim came 
into their Heads, which might have been of fatal 
Confcquenee. Nothing would ferve them, butthey 
muft needs make a Voyage to the Continent, to try 
^if tliey could feize fome of thole Savages, and make 
'them Slaves to do their Drudgery j and indeed, the 
t Projed was not fo prepofterous if they had not been 
k^uated by wicked Notions and Defigns. 
^Bpne Morning they came to their Limits defiring 
^^^eak with us, which being granted, the)' told 
they were tired of that State of Life, and if we 
j\c\ give them one of our Canoes, they would go 
-: their Fortune Aboard, and never trouble us 
You may be fure. Sir, we were not a little 
be freed from fuch troublefome Companions, 
^^^^v cr, we reprefented the Danger of it, but find- 
^^^Rbthing would change their Refolution, we con- 
^^Bed they fhould have one of our Canoes, and at 
^^K fame Time gave them fome Fire Arms, Ammu- 
^TOion and Provifion ; and fo foon as they had fitted 
their Boat, they merrily faiPd away, the Spaniard At 
' the fame Time calling after them and williing them 
' a good Voyage. Arid in Truth, nothing could be 
farther from our Thoughts, than the Poflibihty of 
feeing them any n\ore ; yet, fcarce a Month had paf- 
fed, but one of our Englijhmen being aboard at Work, 
faw three Men well armed coming towards him ; 
upon which, away he flies to bring us intelligence, 
telling us. We nvere all undone, for there ivere Men 
upon the I/land that nvere not Sa'vagr'i f While we 
were confidering the Event, up came the three Eng- 
lijhmen^ whom we prefently knew by their Voices; 

and 



96 



The Life and Adventures 



we prefently knew by their Voices ; and then our 
Wonder ceafed ; our next Inquiry was into the Na- 
ture and Manner of their Voyage, and the Reafon 
of their fo fpeedy return, all which one of them gave 
the following Relation : 

After titjQ Days Sail, ive reached Lan^i, hut finding 
' /fhe Inhabitants Salvages, and coming nxith their Bcn.\:s 
and Arro^vs to gi've us an nnnvelcome Reception^ mje 
thought it proper to make the heft of onr Way, fteering 
Northward. In our Pajfage ixe difco'vered/enjeral 
little IJlands, ^whieh feem' d to he inhabited-, atone oj 
fjchich 'use refolnjed to go ajhore at all Hazards, n.vhich 
accordingly ive did at one that lay the mo ft to the Weft- 
ward : Here ^-e found the Nati^'es 'very courteous tc 
us, gi'ving us nvhat they could procure, Arnong thefe 
hofpi table Indians ive ftayed Jcveral Days, enquiring 
hy Signs nvhat Nations lay near them, and n^ere in- 
formed that there ix'ere feveral Sa'vage Nations that 
lay nis^h to them, that <Tjoere accuftomed to eat Man- 
kind', but, for their Parts, they nvere not accuftomec- 
to cat fuch fort of Diet, except fuch as they took in'j 
tie. We enquired hoiv long it 'uas fince they 
Rattle, and ^whether they had neiv any Prifoners^ 
n^jhich they maJe Anpwer, hy their Signs, that it aval 
not ah o've tivo Months, and their King had noiv f'ii.o 
Hundred Prifoners, nj.'hich he refcr<ved for the Slaugh- 
ter. Mighty dejtrous nve ivere to fee thefe Prifoners^ 
ivhich they miftaking thought ive ivanted fame for our 
even life, and made Signs to us, that at the next riftng 
of the Sun, 'wejhould ha've fome-, and accordingly, at 
the '-very Time they Drought us elei^en Men, and f^ve 
Women, juft as fo many Co<v:s and Oxen are brought to 
a Sea-port Tonun', a Sight that go've us all a great 
deal of Horror, and nxihat to do ive could not tell I 
"To refufe them 'We kneniu ixsould he an unpardonable 

AJront 



of Robinson Crusoe. 97 

Aff'rcnty and to difpofe of them <zve knenx) not hon.v. 
Ho-ui'e'ver, lue refol'ved to accept of thenty and ganje 
thetn in return afenjj Fijhes that ive had in the Cance, 
fo taking our Leanje, ive failed to the next Ifandy <vjhere 
lue fet eight of the Men at Liberty ; <vjith the reji n.vs 
made the hef of our Way to our If and: And thd* n,ve 
treated them as <well as tie cou/d, ^ve could by no 
Means convince them, but they ^were to be killed and 
de-joured. 

»Thus, Sir, did he conclude the Narrative of the{e 
ree Defperadoes ; whereupon I alked them where 
eir new Family was, being defirous to fee them ; 
they^ld me they were at their Hut, fo we all went 
J e' them. 

^'hen we came to the Hut, we found three well- 
■ned Men, and five Women all naked and 
four of them might be from 24 to 40, but 
was a comely Maiden of about 1 7 ; they 
very agreeable, and their Behaviour feemed 
y modeft. Their naked Appearance, with 
ery of their Condition, was no very agreeable 
I ordered Fridays Father to go and try if 
uld learn any thing from them, and if he could 
ake them underftand him, to aflure them that they 
fliould not be Sacrificed ; but they' not being of hia 
Nation, he could only make one of the Women ta 
underftand, and that was partly by Signs : When 
tliey were told by the Women, their Interpreter, that 
they were not to be killed, no one can exprefs the 
ftrange Geftures by which they expreiled their Joy ; 
and when they were a&ed whether they were willing 
to be Servants, they made joyful Signs to exprefs 
iiieir readinefs. 

But now. Sir, having Women among us, which I 

thought at fomeTime might occafion Quarrels,! aflced 

E the 




98 ' The Ufe and Adventures 

three Ef?gI?J??mcfiy how they propofed to difpofe of 
their Families ; adding, that I was not going to lay- 
any Rellraints upon them, only I would defire that 
they would take each but one ; and after they had 
chofen which they had a Mind to, "no other Man 
' fliouid prefume to touch her. V/ell, this they all 
agreed to, and fo they concluded to draw Lots for 
the Choice, which, beycnid Expectation, they did 
with Regularity and Exadnefs : The only Thing 
that is obfervable is, that the poor Women (till old 
Friday convinced them to the contrary) were under 
terrible Apprenfions, that as the Englij;::::cn took" 
them away, as their Lots diredled, they Vvcre im-^ 
mediately to be murdered. 

Butthefe Frights and Terrors being ren. 
'Englijhmen, with their new Wives, -went 
and in a very ihort Time had finifhed fev 
proper for their living. 

And now. Sir, J come to lay before yo 
quite different from any Thing that has been 
One Morning very early there came five C: 
Indians on Shore, upon their old Account 
vouring their Prifoners ; all that we had to do^ 
to lie concealed till their bloody Ceremony 
over, and to take proper Meafures to defend our- 
felves in cafe of Need; but notwithftanding all our 
Cautions there happened an unhappy Difaller that 
had like to have occafioned the utter Defolation of 
the Ifland ; for aftef<the Savages were gone off, my 
Spaniards and I loolked out to make Obfervations, 
we found three Savages that had over-goarged 
themfelves, lying fail afleep upon the Ground. 
What to do with them we could not tell ; to murder 
them we thought would not be juftifiable according 
to the I aw of Chriftianity, having no previousQuar- 
rel with them i at length we thought it advifeable 

to 




<?/ Robinson Crusoe. 99 

to fecnre them alive, and fet them about feme Work 
or other, till we »oul4 difpole of them ; and accord-- 
ingly we took them Prifon.ers, and carried them firil 
to our Cartle, and then to the two Engiijh^ who f- ori 
found them Employment; bnt for want of keeping 
a drift Guard over them, one of them got away in- 
to the VVoods^ and was not heard of for feveral 
Days. 

This unlucky Accident, gave us great Apprehen- 
fions, that by fome way or other, this Savage would 
L find Means to get into his own Country, and inform 
BU| Countrymen how week we were, and coni'e- 
^Hfently that they would come over and dellroy us 
^^\\- or indeed were our Notions ill grounded, for 
..V .: Months after, there came fix Canoes, with 
Men in each, and landed within lefs than a 
of the E?igUjhm£ns Habitation, who, with the 
:ell Terror imaginable, let their milch Goats 
into the Woods, and ran to their fecret Cave, 
ving to defend themfelves till we could come to 
ir Afiiftance. 

It was not long before they could perceive their 
abitations in Flames, and the Savages m purfuit 
of them in feveral fmall Parties ; upon which they 
took their ftand at a convenient Pjace, and deter- 
mined to defend themfelves to the ;^ery laft Extre- 
mity, \;- 

While they were thus expefting them, the Savages 
came on ; one of them was the Run-away, who had 
been the Caufe of this Mifchief, and he thqy refol- 
ved fhould be the firfl that lufFered, let whatrwould 
be the Confequence ; and accordingly as was con- 
certed the firil lets fly, and indeed he took his Aim 
fo well, that he killed the foremoft outright, jfliot 
the Run- away through the Body, and wounded the 
tlurd. 

E 2 Sad 



f 00 The Life and Adventures 

Sad and dreadful v/as the Out-cry the wounded 
hidians made, being quite infenfr^iDle from whence 
their fadden Deftrudion came; and, as we were in- 
formed, believed that they were deftroyecl by 
Thunder and Lightning, having never before heard 
or feen any Tiling like a Gun : While they were in, 
this Conilernation, the EngUjhmen had Time to new 
load their Guns, and firing both together upon ano- 
ther Party of nve, who were Handing by the two 







they had wounded, they fell to the Ground as if 
they had been all killed j upon which the two Eng- 
I'lJI^mcn went up to them without charging their Guns, 
which was a very wrong Step; fqr when the came 
up they found four of the five alive, tv/o of them 
fijghty wounded, and one of them not at all ; upon 

which 



/ ^Robinson Crusoe. ioi 

\vl\ich they were forced to take the But -end of their 
Mufkets, and knock them on the Head, and took 
him that was not wonnded and bound him, and laid 
him at the Foot of a Tree hard by, and then made 
all the Hafie the}- could towards the Cave, to fee if 
all was well there; and finding every Thing fafe, 
they came back to the Tree where tliey left the In- 
dian bound, and found, to their great Sui-pri/.e, \vi 
was gone ! Now they were in greater Fear and Cor-- 
fufion than bei^ore ; bat while they were coniidcrinfr 
what was proper to be done, fei'en SpciKiards came 
up to them, bringing with them that very Indian the 
^gUpmen had left bound under the Tree, whorii 
Spaniards had releafed in their Way. 
'his great Reinforcement {o much encouraged the 
EngUfomeyu and fo great was their Indignatloa 
the lofs of their Huts^ that tliey could fray na 
jer, but taking the ^'/^^/c/^r^j with them, all well 
led, away they went in purfuit of the reft o-f the 
[vagesj but from a rifmg Ground they perceived 
lat they were got on Board their Canoes, and were 
^gone out to Sea too far to be come at ; which gave 
new Matter for Fear and Apprehenfion, leaft they 
fnould go home diresf^ly and inform their Brethren of 
all that had happened, and inciie them to come over 
with a greater Power, and deftroy the whole Ifland. 
And as we judged, foit happened; for in lefs than 
feven Months they came over with twenty -five Can- 
oes, and landed upon us with 250 Men all well arm- 
ed with Bows and Arrows, and other formidable 
Weapons. 

You may imagine, Sir, we were in no fmall Con- 
fternation upon the Approach of thefe unwelcome 
Guefts ;'nor were we wanted to make the beft Pre- 
paration we could to defend ourfelves j we armed 
E 3 our 



102 The Life and Adventures 

cui* faitrfal Slaves in the bell Manner we could; 
nor would our Women be peiTuaded from fighting 
:Joiig with us, being refolved to Conquer, or die 
Vviththcir Huihands, whom now they ioved with 
the greateft Tendernefs and Pailion. 

Of this little Army I was Commander in Chief, 
and Will Jtkins, whom I knew to be a Fellow of 
invincible Courage, I appointed for my Lieutenant- 
General, and ^ave him fix choice Men well ai'med 




to command as a feptrate Bod}'. In a Ihort Time 
the Fight began on Atk'ms\ Quarter, who ordered 
his Men to fire inXQ tlie thickell: of them. Never 
were Creatures in greater Terror and Conlkrnation, 
" as imagining their Deil:r<i6lion to proceed front the 
Godsj aw^'ii Atkbii had obeyed my Orders,' and 
retreated un^ erceived, they had lied to their Canoes 
k ' ^vitJi- 



<?/ Robinson Crusoe. 103 

without any further Attempt, but perceiving of him 
and his fmall Nurnl-jr, they came on again vvith 
the greateilFury. 

In fliort, we were forced to interpofe with our 
whole Body, to fave Jfkins and his Pafty, wlio 
preiTed veiy hard, and had one of the EngliJI^meu 
killed by his Side, and Wc4shimfelf wounded. Wt^ 
gave three. Vollies, but they were now grown fo 
defperate, that notwithfcanding our Fire, they cainer 
up to the very Teeth of us, infoniuch,- tliat.we wore 
forced to retire ; and in Truth, I muft own, that if 
Night had not given us a little Relpite, v,'e inuit 
jave been in a great deal of Danger. 

sfoon as polnble, I drew \x^ my litde Army 
n arifmg Ground, where, by the light of the 
on, we could obferve the Savages in a great deal 
'er3 upon which we concluded it would be 
to fall upon them now, and, ifpoffible, to give 
\''olly undifcovered, which we did by the 
idance of .the two EncUpmen, who knew the 
ound perfectly \ after this, we gave them tliree 
/"oliies more, and then ruihed in upon them v/ith 
our Swords, an(!?with fuch irrefillible Fury, that' 
they gave way, and making a difmal fcreaming and 
howlin"g, they betook themfelves to their Heel?. 
Pvlany of them were killed in the Flight, but indeed, 
we were fo exceeding tired with f.ghting thefe two 
Battles, that we did net then purfue them to their 
Canoes, in v.hich v/c concluded that they would 
immediately get to Sea; but there happening a 
dreadful Storm, they v/cre prevented in that, and 
many of their Canoes were loft into the Bargain. 

After we had taken fom.e Refreflvment, and a littla 
Repofe, we were refolved, as foon as it was Light, to 
go to the Place of Battle, in order to mak^ what Ob- 
fervations we could ; and coming at length to a full 

E 4. Vit^v y 



1 04 ^hs Life and Adventures 

View of tKe , remainder of their Army, we found 
them lying in a moll miferable Pofture ; and when 
we came within Mu&et Shot, I ordered two Guns 
to be fired, in order to try if they had any Notion 
of coming to another Engagement; and the Projedl 
anfwered fo effedually, that they no fooner heard 
the Report of the iirrt Gun, but they flarted up, 
and in a mod aftonifning Manner ran away into the 
Mountains. Tho' I confefs, I had much rather 
the Weather would have fuffered them to have went 
off, without giving us any m^ore Trouble ; for now 
t!ie Cafe was, what mult be done with this great 
Number of Savage Creatures. Great were our Dt 
bates on tliis Point; however, after mature Con^ 
deration, it was determined to deilroy their Canof 
v.iiich when the Indians faw, they made moft hie 
oils Out-cries, but to no Purpofe ; for we eitl^ 
burnt or difabled them all ; after which they 
about for a confiderable Time ; and as they liad 
Arms, nor any Mateiials to m.ake any, fo notwitH? 
ftanding tlieir Numbers,, we were the lefs apprehen- 
five of being furprized by them. 

Indeed our Stock ofProvifions wasfo very fm all, 
that we came to a Refolution to drive them up in- 
to fome remote Corfier of the Ifland, and to kill 
as many of them as we could catch, in order to 
lefien their Num.ber, and then to give them fome 
Corn to, Plant, crV. Purfuant to this Refolution, 
we purfued them wi-th our Guns, killing every 
Day one or more, till at length their Number was 
fo reduced, that we concluded, if poiTible, to take 
one of them alive, which at laft, with fome Dif- 
ficulty, we effefted, and ufing him kindly, we 
brought him to old Friday who told him, if they 
would fubniit, and do what they were commanded, 
tliev fhould be ufed well, othervvife they fliould be 

all 



of RoRiNsoN Crusoe. 105 

all fiain, and bid him go and aflure his Companions 
who were in a moil miferable rtarving Condition. 

The poor Creatures, who were now reduced to 37 
in the whole, received this Offer with all the Joy 
imaginable ; fo we fent themibme Food, which they 
eat with great Thankfulnefs, and made all the Pto- 
mifes we could deiire ; and to give them their Due, , 
they have never broke any of them to this Day. 

And thus. Sir, according to the beft of my Abili- 
ty, I have given you an Account of what is material 
that has happened in the Ifland fmce your Departure. 
to this Day ; by which you may perceive the won- 
" pful Works of Providence. When you infpedl in- 
ithe Ifland, you will find it fomething improved 
general ; your Corn and Flocks increal'ed, and the 
iber of your Subjects fo far augmented, that, 
a defolate Ifland, as it was before your Deliver- 
;, here is now a Profpeft, with a little Indullry 
good Management, that it may at length beconi?r 
a populous and plentiful little Kingdom. 



The End of the ^'/^w.'^r/s Relation. 




EfT 



A 



A 

CONTINUATION 

OF THE 

LIFE 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe. 

THERE is no doubt to be made but that 
Spaniard gTiVQ me a faithful Account, wl 
v/as exceeding agreeable to m.e, and no lefs furpris 
to the young Prieft, and to all the reft that hearc 
nor werethefe People lefs pleafed with the NecelTd 
I brought them, which were a great Help to tl 
in perfefting their Habitations. //V// Atkijis w 
grown a very fober Man, and had build his 
V. ith great Ingenuity ; indeed, nothing, confiderin5_ 
the Citcamftances, and the Nature of the Place, 
could be iinifhed with greater Curiofity, kept more 
neat, or have better Conveniency ; for the Habita- 
tions of the E-iigliJhmen were by much themoft com- 
modious in tiie Ifland. As to Religion, they had 
little among them, and the Men only taught their 
Wit^'es to fpeak Englijh ; they were all fruitful enough 
and bore each a Child once a Year, fome q<^ which 
were now fix Years old, and very ftrong and healthy, 
Wiei \ enqiircdof the .S"/)W«r^ concerning their 
Iv'ianniri of living among the Savages, they gave me* 
a very deplorable Relation ofitj adding, that they 
had hardly any Hepes of Support, or ofjijeliverance. 
Many were the Methods ihey took to inftrud the 

Savages 



of iioElKSON CrvSOE, IO7 

Savages, bat to no purpofe; for they, ignorant as 
they were, would give no Ear to the Inilruiflions of 
thofe who owed them their Lives. At the return of 
their Friend, who they thought had been devoured, 
their Joy was, great, efpccial'y when they faw the 
Loaves of Bread which I fent them ; but v/hen they 
heard- the Errand, and perceived the Boat, their 
Tranfports were inexprefiible. This was the Ac- 
count I had from them ; and now it follows I ihould 
inform the Reader what 1 did for them, and in what 
Condition I left them. 
As it was generally agreed that tliey fiiould have 
more Dillurbance from the Savages, fo I told 
I had made this ^'oyage chiefly for their Sake?, 
I was not come to remote them, but rather to 
)hli\h and Bx them upon the liland ; and for that 
1, I had brought them all Sorts of Neceflaries and 
ifcers, with other Perfons, that would not only 
to their Number, and confequently to Defence, 
it Vy'ould likewife be a mutual Help and Support 
them : They were all together when I talked to 
them after this Manner. I afked th^m one by one 
if they had intirely foi^ot their former Animofities, 
and would enguge in the llridleft Frieiidthlp; to 
which IV. Atkins replied, they had AfHi6lions e.-iough 
to make them all fober, and Enemies enough to 
make them all Friends ; adding, that he had moit 
juftly deferved the Treatment he had received from 
the Spaniard:, and that he was only to be blamed ; 
upon which the Spaniards replied, that fnicc Hill 
Jithins had, upon all Occafjons, behaved himfelf fo 
valiantly in their Defence, that all that was pall 
fhould be forgotten, that he fhould have liis Arm^, 
and be made the next Commander to the Governor. 
Upon thel'e kind Declarations of mutual Love and 
Friendfhip, we concluded to dine together, on the 

' Monosv, 



io8 ne Life and Adventures 

Morrow, which we did in the beft Order and For- 
mality, which the Nature of the Place would permit, 
and after that, I diftributed to every one of them 
his Portiop of the NecefTaries I had brought over, 
and then divided the Ifland into three diHindl Colo- 
nies, making my old Habitation the Metropolis, 
which the Spam arch inhabited. 

The young Man, whofe Mother was ftarved to 
Death, as before-mentioned, and the Maid, who 
was, indeed, a pious, virtuous young Woman, feeing 
the good Difpofition of Affairs, dropped their Refo-^ 
lution of going to the £aj}-lndies, and both defirec 
J v/ould permit them to llay upon the Ifland, anj 
enter them among my Subjeds; which I read^ 
agreed to ; and the young Woman was afterwi 
married, as will appear by the Sequel of the Stor 

And now I come in Courie to fpeak of the youi 
ivT/zr/?' Prieft, whofe pious Behaviour, andexcellei 
Difcourfes, were extremely agreeable, and defer 
a particular Obfervation : Says he to me one Day) 
S-i?ice under God 1 o^weyou my Life, I Jhall take Care 
to employ it to do as much Good, and you as much Hon- 
our as 1 car/', and this I conceive may he heji done in 
7)iy Attempt to fan) e as many of thef poor-People'' s Souls 
as I 'an ', but at the fame Time 1 Jhall take Care not 
to u; ;vafzce avy Points in Religion, but nuhat youfhaW 
appro<ve of 

J v/as mightily pleafed with the Modefty of his 
Expreiiions, and told him he fnould not want my 
Afliicance to further his good Intenfions. ,To which 
he replied, He fhoidd ah>:ays ha^ve a grateful Regard 
1-0 niy Pa'vours, and njcculd make it his principle Con- 
cc- //Jo heho.-ve him [elf in all Points as become a peace' 
able Man and a goiui Chrifian, 

Another- 



V 



e/ Robinson-Crusoe. 109 

it was in my Powei, i "^^^^; '^ Praftices. Upon 



no The Life and Adventures 

and without your Knowledge ; but now the Cafe is 

intirely alter'd, and if you neglecl the Remedy, the 

Guilt will lie at your Door. I was at firft lo dull, 

that I thought he meant I (hould feperate them ; but 

herein he quickly U' deceived me, by telling me, 

his Meaning was not that I fhould leperate them, 

but rather link them failer together, by marrying 

them. The Piety aiid Sincerity of the Man, gave 

me a great deal of Satisfaction, infomuch, that I 

promifed him I would inibmtly go and difcourfe with 

them, and ufe my bell Endeavours with them that 

every Tbing might be done according to his Defire. 

When we c?-me to the EngUfpmeny I flrft put thei 

in Mind that 1 had done every Thing for them th: 

was needful in order to their future Prefervation 

this Life, and nov/ my only Concern was the Prefer 

vation of their Souls Eternally. I adced them con] 

;• cerning their Manner of living with the Savage WoJ 

; men, adding, how fcandalous it was to live in fiich^ 

\ an open- and continued Courfe of Adultry. To 

I which Atkins replied, that he believed the Savage 

[ Women they lived with, to be the moft innocent 

\ Women in' the World, and they would never forfake 

['them. ; and to confirm ni-^ they were fmcere, he told 

i me, if there was a Clergyman in the Ship, they 

[would be married to them with all their Hearts : I 

I told them there was a Clergyman in the Ship, and 

' advifed them to go and conkilt the Women, and I 

lid take Care to have the Ceremony preformed 

morrow Morning in due Form ; which they all 

.■ed to, and fo it was accordingly done to their 

tualSadsfe'fcion.' 

■ 11 Ihort, the Men inilrufled their Wives as well 

hey could in the Nature of the Thii>g they were 

-g abeut, and laid them down, as far as their 

Capacities 



^/Robinson Crus.oe. hi 

Capacities would allow, fome general Heads of the 
Chrillian Religion ; elpecially Atkins, who, though 
he had been by much the moil corrupt and vicious, 
yet his Education had been far better than any of 
the reft. After the young Prieft had afked them fe- 
veral Queftions, and they had promifed to amend 
their Lives, and t^ ufe their utmoft Endeavours to 
make their Wives Chriftians,hc married them; which 
was not more to my Satiifaaion, than to that of the 




En^ll/hmen themfelves, and indeed was attended 
with' all the good Confequences that could De ex- 

pe«5led. r 1 t T 

The Aifairs of the Ifland being thus fcttied, 1 was 
preparing every Tiling for going on Board,when the 
young Man, whofe Moiher had been Ilarved, as is 
^ ^ before 



112 ne Life md Adventures 

before mentioi.e.^, came to me, fn) ing„ as he under- 
ftcod there wa^: a Clergynian on Board, that had 
marrried the '^..glijhmen ai d the Savnges, he had a 
Match to propofe between two Chi-iihans, which he 
defired might be fin'fl.ed before I went. At firft, 1 
thougiu it might be letween iiimfelf and his Mq- 
the/'s Maid, and began to give him fome Advice ta 
the contrary ; upon wliich he told me I was miftaken, 
he had nothing to afic of me on his own Part, bi»t a 
fmall Spot of Ground for a Pljiu ration, a Servant or 
twOj and a Iq^n NecefTaries, and that I would not 
be unmindful of him when I came to E?igland ; but 
as for the Match I am to propofe to you, it is be-a 
tween the Englijhjian, you call Jack of all Tradesl 
and the Maid Sufa?:. 

I was agreeably furprized at the mentioning tl 
Match, which was very fuiiable ; the Fellow beii 
a very aclh'-e induftrious Man, and the Woman 
defcret, neat, cleanly Houfewife ; To the Match w3 
concluded, and they were married the fame Daj 
As to the ih^ring out the Land, I left it to Will AA, 
kins, who, indeed, difcharged tlie Trull with great 
Fidelity. As to tlieirXaws and Government, I ad- 
vifed them earneftly io love one another, and to make 
what further Bye-Laws they ihould think proper,, 
for tiieir general Goo'd and Benefit. 

At our Return we called at Atki7is\ JEIoufe, where 
we found the new married Woman in a clofe Con- 
ference with Atkirn^ Wife, who had been baptized;- 
fays Atkins, When God has Sinners to reconcile to 
him/elf, he is ne'uer nvilhout a-nf Injiriiclor ; for this 
young Woman, nvhofn Providence has fent among 
us, has Senfe and Religion enough to con'ver-t a <whole 
Nation of Sanjages. The young Woman blufhed,and 
was going to rife, but I bid her fet ftill, telling her, I 
hoped God would blcfs her good Endeavours; and 

fa- 



<?/ Robinson Crusoe. 113 

fo taking out of my Pocket a Bible, I gave it to 
Jtkinsy >\hich he receiv.-d with Marks of Gratitude 
and Satisfaftion : And lb after feveral religious Dif- 
courfes, 1 dcfired the young Women to give me an 
Account of the Anguilh Ihe felt, when Ihe wasftarv- 
ing to Death in the Ship, which Ihe did in Terms 
very moving and pathetic. 

Aud now having difpofed every Thing in the Ifland 
in the beil iV'Ianner poiliblj, and given the People 
Aifurances, that I uould always have them in my 
Thoughts, and would be fure to fend them fulHcient 




Supplies, as often as I had an Opportunity; upon 
thefirflof May, 1695;, I fet Sail for the 5r^/A ; 
but the next Day were becalmed, and looking to- 
wards tlieA^. N/R. of the Ifland, we could perceive 

feme- 



114 ^he Life arid Adventures / 

fomething oat at Sea looldng very black, upon which 
the Pvlate going iip the Shrouds, and taking a View 
with a Profpeftive Glafs, he crkd out, it was an: 
Army. An Army, you Fool ! (laid I) What do you 
me^u ? Nay Sir, (fays he) don't be angr) , I afiure 
yeu-^it is not only an Army, but a Fleet' too ; for I 
believe there are a Thoufand Canoes making towards 
us with all Speed. As they came nearer towards us 
them feemed to be vtry much furprized at the fight 
of our Ship, not knowing what to make of us, and 
we being unwilling they ihould come too near, made. 
Signs to them to keep off, which they did ; but as 
they retired they let fly feveral Arrows, by whicl 
one of oui: Men was wounded. 

In a little Time they had the Courage to come 
near us, that they could hear us {peak ; upon whit 
I ordered Friday to oxW to them, to know what tl 
vvould have, whereupon they poured a whole Cl< 
of Arrows upon him, feven of which went qii 
through his Body ; and fo I lofl my faithful Serve 
and moll: affedtionate Companion in all my Afllic 
tions and Solitude. I was fo enraged at the Deatli' 
of poor Friday, that I ordered the Gunners to load 
with fmall Shot and immediately give them a Broad- 
fule ; which they did fo effeftually, that i 3 or 14 of 
their (I'anoes were over-fet,- and the reft fo frighted, 
that away they flew v.'ith all the Speed they could. 

Soon after, we took up one poor Wretch,, as .he 
was Swimming for hi-- Life, but he was fo ftubbc^n 
and furly, that I could not prevail with him either 
to eat or drink; upon which I ordered him to be 
thrown over-board, and after we had taken him up 
the fecond Time, he came fo far to himfelf, that he 
let us knov/ that they were going \viLh their Kings 
to f ght a great. Battle; and when we allied him 

what 



^/'Robinson Crusoe. 115 

what made them come to us, and (hoot at us ? He 
ajifwered, To tnakce de great Wonder looL 

Poor Friday was buried with all the Pomp and 
Decency our Circumilance would allow. And now 
having a fair Wind, we made the beft of our Way 
to the Brapdsy 7.vA in a few Days came to an Anchor 
in the Bay of All Saint:. With fome Difhculty I 
got on Shore with Part of my Cargoe, and having 
^tted out a \''elTel with Provifion for my Ifland, and 
fettled feveral Matters with my Correfpondent, we 
fet Sail for the Eaji -Indies. 

Whoi we failed froiji the Br(^fJs,v^'Q made dire6lly 
the Cape 0^ Good-Hope, having a tolerable good 
>yage, fleering for tie moft Part S. E. At the , 
)e V. e only took in frefn Water, and then failed 
ftly for the Coaft of Cormandcl. The Rril Placa 
)uched at, w:<s the l{[3.vAof Madaga/car, where, 
;h. tile People are ferce and treacherous, yet 
fome Tim.e they treated us well, and gave us 
fm.modities. I made it my chief Bufmefs to go on 
lore as often as I could to, m.ake Obfervation ; and 
Tndsed the People traded with us with fo much feem- 
ing Civility, that fome of the Men refolved one 
Night to Hay on Shore in a Tent, which they had 
made for that Purpofe; for my Part, I and fom.e of 
the reil thought it more fafe to lie in the Boat. 

About two o'clock in the Morning, we were 
alarmed with the firing of Guns, and our Men cry- 
ing for Help, or they ftiouid be murdered. 

The Occafion of this Fray, as we afterwards un- 
derftood from them that efcaped, was this : An old 
Woman that fold Milk, brought with her a young 
Woman that fold Herbs, who, when the Sailors faw 
they laid hold of her, carried her in among the 
Trees ; upon which the old one made fuch a prodi- 
gious Out cry, that both Men an4 Women came'to 

their 



r 

ii6 ne Life and Adventures 

tlieii' Affiftance. At the beginning, the Fellow that 
began the Fray was killed with a Launce, though at 
firil we did not know what was become of him. 

A Night or two after we refolved to go on Shore, 
and try if we could iind out the Man that was miiTing. 
An Hour before Midnight we landed at the Place 
where the Aftion began, but it was fo'dark, we 
could difcover nothing, till the Boatfwain fell ov?;r 
one of the dead Bodies. Vv^e concluded to ftay there 
till Morning, when we diicovered two and thirty 
dead Bodies ly in o; upon the Ground, whereof two 
were not quite dead. Having made this Difcovery. 
I thought I had fcen enough, and fo was preparii 
to return on Board, but the Boatfwain and the n 
wnich were about T^'enty, refolved to go to the 
diaji Town, to try if they could fnd what was 
come of To7n Jefferys^ their Companion. 

I oppofed this Refoiution, as too dangerous 
be undertaken ; but all I could fay, iignified nothi^ 
they were refolved to go, let the Confequence 
what it would. It was not without Difficuly thi 
they found the Town, which confifted of about 200" 
Houfes, where the People being all in a profound 
Sleep, the • Sailors concluded to divide themfelves 
into three Bodies, and to fet the Town on Fire in 
three Places at once, to kill all that Ihould attempt 
to efcape, and to plunder the reft. Having made 
this defperate Refoiution,. to Work they v/ent ; they 
had not gone far, before the firft Company found 
their Companion Tomjefferys, llripped ftark naked,, 
with his Throat cut from Ear to Ear, hanging by 
one Arm upon a Tree. In a Houfe adjoining to this 
Tree, they found i c or 16 Indians. 

THey 



c/RoBiNSON Crusoe. il7\ 

They mn:neuia^ciy fet Fire to the Houfe, and at 
the fame T ime to .cverai o: hers in the Town ; fo that 
in a very iitte Tin.e, th. whole Place was all m 
Flr.mes/ an.: no fooner did the afnghted Ci-eatures 
runout to lave tacmfelves fiom the Fury of the 
Flames, but the Caiiors ether drove them back agam 
into the Fire, or killed them withcnt Mercy ._ Ail 
this while they never fired a Gun, leil the Noice ot 
that (hould awake the People too fail for tnem to 
deftroy. 




By this Time the Town was allin Flames,"nd the 
Liciit of the Conflagration made me very unealy, 
and lik'.'wife furprized the Captam,and the Men that 
were with him on Board, who knew nothmgof the 

Matter, ' 



I'S The Life and Adventum 

But when he faw the Smoak, and heard the Guns 

go oft, he concluded his Men ™uft be in great Ear" 

ger ; upon wh.ch he took the other Boat? and w1 h 

t urteen Men refolved to go to the Affiftan e of th:^' 

let the Confequence be what it will; ; nd indeed 

tho I was fenfible of the Danger we ran, ye I had 

.0 Power to ilay behind. V/e went dnXa t. 

Flames gu,ded us, but I mull own when I c Jnfe ™ 

on the I^lace, I never beheld greater Horror X 

heard more dreadful Out-cries ! In fhort, the whole 

Speaacle was too dreadful to be defcrib^d, and the 

Mifer^s and Aftonilhment of the People i^ot to be 

uttered I got ,nto the Centre, in order to put 

fh/w "f /"f^'^'-B^^arity, and ordered for/. 

the Men to follow me : but I had hardly f»k 

Word before the Boatfwain with four of the 

JJuft. When diey faw us and knew who we 
they gave a great Hallow in Token thatmore x 
was come^ KobU CaUain, (fays he) thefe HelUA 
ha^e harharcujly murdered Tom Jeffervs, ^„H i„ ,_ 

V?€.'\ "'T ""■ ■^l^^" •"y Nephew fal 
his Man hanging by the Arm, with his Throat cuT 
from Ear to Ear, he grew extremely enraged'and 
declared that not a Man in the Mand ought o be 
fpared; upon which away run the Bcatflain with 
e>ght more to finifl. the Tragedy, wh.ch bein.out 
of my Power to prevent, I got to the Boat with only 
the Supe.-xargoe, and fo went on Board, fending 
back the Pmnace to "affift the Mea, if any Thinf 
Apuld happen When I had got to the Boat thi 
Fire was almoij extmguiflied, and the Out-cries a- 

i. SMn L f *" r ,'?''".'"•' =* ''"'^ Time on Board 
tne Ship, before P heard another Volley given by 
the Sailors, as a Signal of Vlflory, which was oc- 
cafioned by the., filing „p„„, ^„a deftroying.tl^ 

Houfes 



^/Robinson. Crusoe. ug 

Houfes and Perfons that lay between them and the 
Sea, and To they came llroling down to the Pinnace , 
which4ay ready to receive them. Not a Man had 
received any confiderable Hurt, the poor Indians 
being unprepared, amazed and confounded. I was 
extremely angry with them for their Cruelty, but 
particularly with the Captain, who inftead of per- 
luading them to Reafon, rather prompted them to 
farther A'lifchief ; nor could he fay any thing to ex- 
cufe himfelf, but that he was a Man fubjeft to 
Paffion, and that he could not bear the Sight of one 
of his Men fo barbaroufiy Murdered. As for the 
;il, they only boafted of their Revenge, and accord- 
to all their Accounts, they deilroyed 150 Men, 
en and Children, and burnt the whole Town 
ihes into the Bargain ; and however our Men 
rt value themfelves upon this bold Exploit, yet I 
's looked upon it with Deteftation, and gave it 
itle of The Majfacre 5/ Madagafcar. 
hen we were under Sail, the Boatfwain would 
^often magnifying and defending this blobdy Ac- 
liQn, V hich I as often difpraifed and cordemned, 
bidding them depend upon it, God would never bleis 
their Voyage after fuch unparralled Barbarity. And, 
as I foretold, fo>it happened; for when we came 
upon the Perfian Shore, we loll five of our Men, 
W'ho ventering too far upon Shore, were either killed 
or taken and made Slaves by the Arabians. Upon 
this Misfortune I again reprehended them, advifmg 
them to repent ; upon this fays the Boatfwain, You 
are ahvays dijhirbing us, and as you are hut a Pajfen- 
gerj ive are not obliged to bear it ; and therefore if 
you do not forbear for the future, 1 am refo^^oe^to lea've 
the Ship, and not fail nxifh fuch dangeroui in d ungrate- 
ful Company. ' 

All 



r 



120 The Life and Adventures 

All this I heard very patiently, being fenfible, 
as Cafes then flood, I had no Remedy, and indeed 
I thought all had been over and forgot. But fo it 
happened ; we were now in the Road of Bengal^ 
where going one Day on Shore with the Supercargoe 
one of the Men came to me, and told me, I need 
not trouble myfelf to come on Board any more, for 
that he had Orders from the Boatfwain, and the 
relt of the Officers, not to bring me on board any 
jnore. 

This infolent MefTage much furprized me ; how- 
ever, I m.ade the Fellow no Anfwer, but went to the 
Supercargoe, and defired liim to goon Board imn: 
diatelv, and acquaint the Captain, that he might 
vent the Mutiny, which I had Reafon to appre 
But before this could be done, the Matter was el 
ed ; for I was hardly gone out of the Boat bj 
Boatfwain, Gunner, Carpenter, with all the inJferior 
Oliicers, came to the Quarter-Deck, defiring to ipcak 
with the Captain; and then the Boatfwain bega 
rail againft me exceedingly, telling him if 1 
not gone on Shore rnyfelf, they were refolved to ha 
compelled me to it And farther, he had the Info 
lence to add, that if I had not quitted the Ship tho' 
they had all the Refpect immaginable fortheirCap- 
tain, and would ferve him vvith their Lives, yet 
they would all leave the Ship immediately ; upon 
which, the reft cried out One and all One and all 
Tho' my Nephew was a Man that wanted nei- 
ther Courage nor Refolution, yet this unexpefted 
Behaviour fnocked him exceedingly ; he expoftula- 
ted with them, telling them the Danger and the In- 
juftice of fuch a Proceeding ; but all would not do, 
they were fully refolved, that if I came on Board, 
they would all' leave the Ship; upon which, fays he, 
if this be your Refolution, I will go and acquaint 

him 




la^K 
nfo-l 



o/ RoRiNSON Crusoe. izr 

him with it; and (o he came to me, and told me 
all that had pafied, I am very glad to iee ) ou Ne- 
phew, fays 1 and am glad it is no worle; for 
ia. Truth,! expeded they would have rebelled againft 
you: I only defire you to fend my neceflary I'hings 
on Shore, and I will find my Way to Englanii, as 
well as I can. Though this vexed my Nephew to 
the Heart, yet finding there was no Reme.dy, he 
took, his leave of me, and went on Board, and fent 
me my Neceflaries, and fo this Matter was c/er in 
a very few Hours; and now I think I was at leaft 
thoufand Leagues further diftant from England, - 
n I was at my little Kingdom. 
y Nephew left me two Servants to attend me, 
who engaged to be with me till my Return, I took 
gs m the Houfe of an Engli^xroman, were ' 
^eral Merchants, tV. and indeed I liked the 
y and the Entertainment fo well that j' 
d here feveral Month, confidering what 
I had befl take. I had fome valuable Englifa 
Goods, a thoufand Peices of Eight and a Letter of 
e^'t for more if I (houlJ haveOccafion. The 
V 7 0ods I foon difpofed of to Advantage, and bought 
Tiere feveral good Diamonds,which I could eafilycarry * 
about with me. 

One Morning a Merchant, with whom I was \try 
intimate, came to me; fays he. Countryman 
1 have a Propofal to make with you, which I 
do not Quellion, but will be to both out Advan- 
tages. To be flioit, Sir, we are both in a remote 
Part of the World, and far removed from our. 
Native Country; and yet we are in a Place 
were Men that underftand Bufinefs, may get 
Mbney, Now if you will put a thoufand Pounds 
o my thoufand Pounds, we will have a good 
Ship, you fliall be the Captain, and I the Mer- 
chant, and v/e will go upon a trading Voyag-.*. 
F this 




122 I'he JJfe and Adventures 

This Prppofal foon gained upon me, ftltlhg ex- 
aflly with my rambling Inclination, but it "requir- 
ed feme Time before we could get a VelTel to our 
Mind, or Sailors fit to Man her out. In a little Time 
we procured both, and fo away we failed for Chi?ia. 
and had a very profperous Voyage, having not onry 
gained a large Sum of Money, but (withal) got a 
good Infight into the Trafrick of thofe Countries. 
Our next Voyage was to the ^pice IJlands, which 
proved likewife very Succefsful; and not long after, 
the Merchant and I made up our Accounts to mutual. 
Satisfadlion ; we found ourfelves \'-ery rich, and nowg 
our only Concern w as to difpofe of our MongjB 
Whiin we wereconfidering what was beft to be done, 
it happened that a Dutch Ship of about Two Hi;n- 
dred Tuns, came into Port. The Men pretgr' . n 
they were lb ill that there were not Hands fi^kicnt 
to manage the Veflel,and the Captain being dfcroi: 
to go to Europe, pubhck Notice was given tl^t tl 
Ship was to be fold, which no fooner came to 
Ears, but we bought her, and would hare entei 
ed fome of the Men, bat they could not be fo? 
for as foon as they had received their Dividend,thl 
all went priVately to the MoguW Country,as in Truth 
they had Reafon enough; for this pretended Captain 
was only the Gunner, for the real Captain and three 
of his Men being killed by the Malagans, they ran 
away with the Ship to the Bay of Bengal^ leaving 
the Mate and five Men more on the Shore, of which 
you will hear in Sequel of Story. |i 

After we had bought the Ship and fitted her with |l 
all Necefiaries for her Voyage, with fome Difficulty 
and Expence we picked up fome Sailors of different 
Countries, and manned her tolerable well, refolving 
upon another Voyage to the S^ice JJlands. In this 

Manner 




of Robinson Crusoe. 125 

Manner we traded backward and fro ward for five or. 
fix Years, with very good Succefs, and were now in^ 
the feventk Year going to China, but in this Voyage 
we met with contrary Winds, which beat us up and 
down; and no fooner were we got clear ©f the' e 
rugged Seas, but we found our Ship had fprung a 
Leak, which obliged us to put into the River Cam- 
bodia, which goes to Sia?n. 

One Day as I was on Shore refrefhingmyfelf, there 
came to me an EngUJhman, that was Mate to an 
Eaji-Indiajnan, that rid in the fame River, Sir, 
fays he, you may very well wonder at my Bufmefs, 

Km a perfedl Stranger to you, but notwithftand- 
at, 1 have fomething to impart to you, that 
rns you very nearly, and it is the imminent 
er you are m that has brought me to you, Dan- 
fays I, I know of no Danger, unlefs that our 
is a Httle leaky, and that I mtend (hall be redi- 
5 foon as poffible. I believe, fays he, you will 
ther Employment. The Town of Cambodia is 
Ten Leagues higher, and three Leagues on 
de, lie three Dutch, and two Englijh Sliips, and 
ou venture up farther into the River, without 
vumidering whether yon have Force enough to fight 
them all? 
i I knew not what he meant by this Difcourfe, and 

I turning fhort upon him, Sir, faid I, I know ho Rea,- 
fon I have to be afraid either of the Dutch orEngiiJh 
I am no Interloper, and what Bufmefs then can rhey 
have with me ? Well, fays the Man, if my Advice 
is of no Weight with you, you may take your own 
Way ; however, I am very forry you would be fo 
much an Enemy to yourfelf ; I will be plain with 
you, unlefs you put to Sea immediately, you will be 
attacked by five Long boats full of armed Men, and 
hanged yourfelf for a Pirate, if you are taken -, and 
F 2 Sir, 



124 ^^^^ ^if^ and Adventures 

Sir, I thought fuch a Piece of Service de£erv.ed better 
Treatment. Sir, faid I,you Tnall not find me Ingrate- 
ful; let me beg you therefore to explain yourfelf, 
and I will put to Sea immediately. Why, then in 
fhort, the Matter is this: You know very well, 
that your Captain, with three of liis Men, was kill- 
ed by the Mallagansy and that you, or fome others 
that were on Board, ran away with the Ship, and 
are turned Pyrates. Now Sir, this is in Subitance 
what I have to fay, and I can only further afiure 
you, that if they can lay their Hands on you, they 
will execute you without Ceremony. 

Sir faid I, thought no Man came more honcftly 
by the Ship than I did, yet as you reprefent the Ma^ ' 
ter, I think I ought to be upon my Guard, ant 
heartly thank you for your Information. Coi 
fiiys he, it is no matter for Ceremonies, if you v^ 
your own, and the Lives of your Men, get oi 
Sea as fall as you can. I am very well fatisfied, 
I, in your Sincerity, and the Service you have i 
me, pray therefore tell me what Recompence I 
make you, Only take me with you, fays he, and^ 
you find what I have told you to be true, I refer my- 
felf for a Recompence to your Generofity. 

So reafonable did this appear in every Particular, 
that we went immediatly on Board together, where 
we were no fooner entered, but my Partner welcom- 
ed me with the joyful News that they had flopped 
the Leak. I am ghd of that, fays I but come let us 
make all the Hafte we can to weigh Anchor; but 
whilft we were bufy in that, a Sailor called to the 
Captain, told him, there were Sloops coming af- 
ter us; upon which the Captain taking his Profpec- 
tive Glafs, and looking out faw five Sloops full of 

armed 



^/ Robinson Cr usoE. 125 

armed Men in full Chafe after us, upon which wti 
immediately fent one of the Sailors to give us No- 
tice. Very well, faid I, I am fully convinced thert; 
is fomething in it, and fo I went upon Deck, and 
told the Men that we were in Danger of having tlie 
Ship feized and executed as Pyrate?, and ask- 
ed them if they would faitlifully ftand by us, and 
by one another; to which they unanimoully re- 
plied, They would ftand by us, and f.ght for us to 
the laft Drop of their Blood, Then I asked the 
Captain which Way he thought was i:eil to defend 
oiirfelves; who replied, he believed it was fa- 
fafl to keep them off with our great Guns, and ac 
:ordingly the Gunner was ordered to load the Gunrs 
ith fmall Shot, and to bring them to he^T befori* 
aft; and thus the Deck being cleared, we were 
ill Points prepared for an Engagement. 
"•"e flood out to Sea, but ftill the Boat?, fol- 
[ed us very clofe We could perceive the 
foremoft were Englipy which are a-head of 
Dutch by two Leagues ; hereupon we fired a Gun 
hung out a Flag of Truce, in order to a Parley, 
Jut finding they bore down upon us with ail the Sai! 
they could, we fired upon them with Ball, and then 
bid them keep off at their Peril ; but all this figruficd 
nothing, for depending upon their Numbers, the;, 
were refolutely bent upon Mifchief. We made fe- 
veral Shots at them as they came forward, killed fc- 
veral of their Men, and-funk one of their Boat'^^, and 
manning out our Pinnace, we faved three of their 
Men from drowning who were brought on Board 
After a very hot A6lion, we got out fo far to Sea th.i; 
they could not purfue us without Danger, and fo 
changing our Courfe to the Eafi^joard^ we got quite 
out of the Courfe of European Ships. 

F 3 When 



125 ^he Life and Adventures 

When we were got out to Sea, enquiring more 
particularly at the Meaning of all this, the Dutchman 
let us into the whole Secrf't, telHng us that the Fel- 
low we bought the Ship of, was an errant Thief, 
and that lie ran away with the Ship ; that the Cap- 
tain was treacheroufly murdered, and that he and 
four more were foi'ced to betake themfelves to the 
Woods for Safety ; and that at length, by Means Of 
a Dutch VeiTel in its Way to China^ that came in ac- 
cidentally, to take in frelh Water, they were prefer- 
ved. lie further told us, that they were informed 
that the Fellow fold the Ship at Bengal and ihe was 
turned Pirate, and had taken feveral Prizes. 

After mature Confideration, we concluded it be( 
for us to return to Bengal, were being know 
might beft prove how we came by the Ship, 
where we were fure to meet with fome Juftice, 
not be hang'd firfl and judged afterwards; but 
fecond, and more deliberate Thoughts, we all aj 
that by paiTmg by B ataxia we ran too great a ' 
zard, and therefore we determined to change 
Courfe, and fail towards the Coaft of Chinay 
there difpofe of the Ship, and then get another, an3 
make the beft of Way to Europe. This being gene3 
rally agreed to, we {leered away tl. N. E. but meet- 
ing with contrary Winds, which blew hard againft 
us, our Voyage grew very troublefome and tedious, 
and onrProvifions alntt)ft exhaufted, and what was 
ftill worfe, we were apprehenfive, that the Ships, 
vvhofe Boats we had handled fo rudely, might be in 
the Road before us, which in Confequence muft be 
fatal to us. Upon thefe melancholly Confiderations 
we again refolved to change onr Courfe, and try if 
poffibly, we could not make fome Harbour belong- 
ing to the ^orttigueze. With this Refolution we 'let 

for- 



^ Robinson Crusoe. 127 

fonvard for the Bay fonguin; in order to fail from 
thence to Macon, a Town once pofTefTed by the Por- 
tugiieze, and where there were iHll many European 
Families. 

We came in fight of tliis Place early next Morning, 
but confidering our former Circumftance, v e put 
into a irnall River, till wo. had enquired vhat Ships 
\vere in the Road, and ho* Matters flood; and in- 
deed this prudent Step vvas the Occauon of our hap- 
py Deliverance : For the next ?vlorning there came ni 
t o Dutch ^h.i'^s, aud a third u.ithout any Colours ; 
and in the Evening t >. o Englip ones. 

The River w here we lay v as but fmall, and the. 
ountry vv iid and barbarous, and the Inhabitants all 
obbers, having no Correfpondence ith any other 
tion; and among other barbarous Cuftoms, they 
e this particularly : V/'hen any Ship is driven on 
Coaft, they immediately feize her, and make 
er Men Slaves; fo that here » e found ourfelves 
uFided v.ith Enemies both by Sea and Land. 
s we found our Ship v.'as very foul and leaky, 
tlioaght to cieanfe her in t'his Plac€, but \\hile 
is uas doing, the Inhabitants, \sho, I believe-,Miad 
ever feen a Ship upon the Careen befo'/e, •cmd hot 
perceiving our' Men, v ho were at Work, they, pre- 
sently imagined that the Ship had been cad avvay, 
and lay upon the Ground, and ' accordingly they 
furrounded us v-tith f.ve or fix large Boats full of 
armed Men, with a Refolution to plunder the Ship, 
and carry the Men a -ay Slaves to their King; but 
when they fa > ^ur Men at Woik upon the Out-fide 
of the. hip, they looked upon us with the greatelt 
Confifion imaginable ; neither could v e imagine 
what their Defign was ; Jiowexx'r, to prevent the 
\voi'ft, we handed do .vn fome i^rnis, and indeed it 
F 4 ii> 



j"2 8 ^he Life and Adventures 

15 well we did, for in lefs than a Quarter of an Hour, 
they came fcouring upon us with all their Force. 

Indeed v/e lay but in an illPofture to receive them 
and before the Men could come on Board, they had 
fcizcd one of the Sailors, but the Felldw foon difin- 
gaged himfelf, and killed the P^gan that firft laid 
hold on hin-^i however, this was little to the Purpofe, 
conllderir.g their Numbers, and 1 really believe, if it 
l-.ad not been for a lucky Accident, we had been all 
loit. The Thing was this: The Carpenter who was 
flopping the Holes in the Ship, had got t\vo Kettles, 
the one full of boiling Pitch, and the other with 
Rofm and Tallow, isc. And as two or three Infidels^ 
v.ere entering the Boat,the Carpenter's Mate falutec 
them with aLadle full of boiling Liquor, which \ii 
fuch Efieft, that being half naked it made them r| " 
and leap into the Sea; which the Carpenter perc« 
iiig he took his Mop, and dipping it into the Pi 
kettle, he fo fpringled it among them, that the] 
ran frighted away, crying and howling in the 
terrible Manner. 

I muil own I wasextreamly pleafed at the oddr . s 
of this Adventure; however we loft no Time to put 
the Ship in a Pofture of Defence, and as fpon as we 
could, we put to Sea again being refolved to put 
into the frft trading Port we came near. After fome 
Days fail, we came within Sight of Shore, and Hand- 
ing in, a Boat came off to us with an old Portuguese 
Filoi on Board, who offered us his Service, we 
very gladly accepted it, and fent the Boat back 
again; infhort, the old Man went with us^' and as 
we failed along, I aflced him if there were no Py- 
rates in thofe Seas ; he told me he had not heard of 
but one, that was feen in the Bay of Siam, about 
a Month ago ; nor was fhe built for a Runner neither, 
but onl)^ a Ship that the Men had run away with, 

tlie 



<?/RoBiNSON Crusoe. 129 

the Captain having been murdered by the Malla- 
gam; and I can tell you this iffome Dutchmen, 
that came pretty near him the other Day, mthc Ki- 
ver Cambodia, had laid their Hands upon them, they 
would have hanged everyone of the Rogues upon the 
Yard-arm, without any further Ceremony, 

Being fenfible that this old Pilot could do us no, 
Harm, I told him how Cafes flood with us, and de- 
fired him to carry us ioNanquiny where neither Eng- 
iijh nor Dutch Ship came. Says the old Man you 
have taken the right Courfe to fteer to the Nortti 
^ and, if I might advife, I would have you fell the 
feShip at China: But, fays I, in doing that, I may 
^ -tray innocent People: No, replies he I know the 
Jutch Commanders, and will take Care they (hall be 
rightly informed of the whole Matter. Whilft theie 
^'»-'nc;s were under Debatc,we failed direflly ^oi-Nan- 
A in about thirteen Days time came to an 
.^1 jr in the Entrance into the Gulf, where we 
le informed that two largeDw/ci' Ships were gone 
^^fore us, and that we fliould certainly fall into their 
Bpands.What to do we could not tell, but the old 
HRdan told us there was a little Harbour about forty 
leagues to the Southvjard, and Jf we could get thither 
no Dutch or Euglijh Ships ever came thither 
and there we might be fafe. This advice was gene- 
rally approved, and thither, by the honeft Pilot's 
Direftion, we arrived in Safety: After .!A-e Days 
failing we went dire\ftly into the Port, and landed 
to owi unfpeakable Joy and Satisfaction. , 

Beiiig^ow lafely on Shore, Our Pilot foon got u» 
a Lodging, and a VVare-houfe for our Goods, artdl 
then brought us ucquainetd with the thrpe iVliiTio- 
nary Prielh,that were there converting the People 
to Chriihanity. After we had fettled^ a Sort f)i a. 
F 5 Corrcipondtave 



130 ne Life and Adventures 

Correfpondence with them; our next Concern wa 
to difpofe of . Goods, which we did fome Time 
after to our full Satisfaclion, to an eminent Merchant 
of Japan. We were one thoufand I eagues farther 
from Home, than when we were at Bengal, and 
having difpofed of our Ship, all the Hopes we had, 
was that at the next Fair, we might perhaps pur- 
chafe another VefTel that w'ould carry us and our 
Goods where we pleafed Upon thefe Hopes we 
refolved to continue here, and to divert ourfelves, 
we took feveral little Journeys into the Country, 
and fpent ten Days to fee the City of Nanquhiy 
which was regularly bnilt, and tolerably well for- 
tified: At our Return, we found one of the Prief 
going to Pequin, who folicited us with great Eai 
eftnefs to bear him Company thither, which 
both agreed to do, We were five and^'Kventy Di 
in our Journey through that miferable Country, 
hid an Opportunity m our PafTage to fee 
Qr three of the C/^/^ty^-' Squires, with their Mani ^ 
of Travelling there, which was the moft ridiculoi 
I ever faw, and rather merited our Scorn and Con' 
tempt than our Admiration . 

At length we arrived at the great City of Pequin 
where we had fcarce been a Week, before the old 
Portjcgueze brought us Word, that their was a great 
Caravan and feveral Pcdijh Merchant in ihort I'ime 
preparing to go by Land to Mofccvy, and that if we 
p'eafed, we might take the Opportunity. This 
was very good Ne-^s for us, and fo we went to 
vVoi k as fait as we could to difpofe of what Goods 
we had at the Port, and to buy fuch others 
tliat we tlought would turn to the moft Advan- 
tage, Wq fetout of Pequin, in Company of about 
f.ve hundred of feveral nations, the beginning 
'" Vehruary; and in two Dn^^s we pafled through a 
■ :e, inthe rreat Wall^ faid to^^^ '^"^ tiioufand 



of Rob IN son ff ^^ ^0^' '^3^ 

EnglifJy Miles in Lengjh. We then entered, a Country 
uiider die Power of the po;:!" thievkig -Tartars, of 
whom we perceived feveral iViirJl Parties at a Dif- 
tance from u.-, " One Day our Leader gave us leave 
to go a Hunting, , when it vvas our Chance to meet 
wiji about Forty of tlkefe itarving Wretches in a 
Body, who no looiter perceived us. u-at one of them 
blew a Horn, at die Sound of which Forty or Fifty 
more came upimmediately. Hercu^via, one of the 




Srotch Merchants ordered us to advAnce aiid attack: 
them without DeLiy; they let fly a few random Ar- 
rows at us, th'-».t fell ilicrt, and did us no Manner of 
Harm; and when we came near enough to fire tipon 
them with our Pif>ois, they ran away in the greateft 
Confufion. So our Sattle with t'ltfe thievlin u,r!nrs 

tndca. 



\.2 The Life and Adventures 

ended, without any Bloodfhed on our Side. We 
ftill travelled at lead a Month more through the 
Empejor of Chinas Country, till at length we came 
TO the City oi Naum, which is a ftrong Frontier of 
the Chinefe Empire, being often dillurbed in our 
Pailage by ftraggling Tartars. We flayed at 'Naum 
but one Dav , and then continued our Journey, paf- 
ling feveral Defarts, and great Rivers ; and on the 
1 3 th of Jprily we came to the Frontier oiMufco'vy ; 
and as we pafied, we found the Garrifons were filled 
with Chriftian Soldiers, for the Benefit of Travellers 
and Commerce , but the the common People were all 
Pagans, and the moft miferable Wretches I ever be-- 
held. Whilil we ftoppgd to refresh at one of theii 
Towns, J had an Opportunity to obferve them at the 
Worfliip of one of their Idols, which was the mof 
ugly Keprefentation that ever I faw in iny Life; 
cannot defcribe it to you without Horror. Howeve 
we found Means to deftroy itbefore we left the Place 
: for which we 'had like to have payed very dear j fol 
the next Day they came to the Governor to demanc 
Sarisfaclion for the Lofs oi their Idol, and if we 
hnc] not deceived them, and got off by a Stratagem^ 
\\c. mull have been all deftroyed. 

The next Place we came to was the City o^Jara- 
, -'f/;.-7, where we flopped for five Days, and then we 
I entered into a difn" al Defart, which lafled us twenty- 
• five Days march, before we could pafs over it, and 
were all the Way infe^led with fmall Troops of Rob- 
. bcrs, but they never had the Courage to attack us. 
'After we had palTed this Place, we had feveral Gar- 
rifions to defend the Caravans from the Tartars. 
Through all this Country happened noiliing worth 
, iiiibrming the Reader: The Inhabitants were gene- 
'- rally Pagans, and, as I obferved, the Czar chofe ra- 
ther, 



^/Robinson Crusoe. 133 

ther to convert them by his Soldiers, than by his 
Prielb. 

From this City to the River Ohy, v/e travelled 
over a very plealant Country, but uncultivated, till 
we came to the Capital of Siberia, And now hav- 
ing been feven Months upon our Journey, and Win- 
ter coming on, my Partner and I began to confideJr "* 
what Courfe we had beft take to fecure and difpofe 
of our Goods and ourfelves j for my own Part, my 
Intention was for England; fo I concluded, that my 
beft Method would be to make the beft of my Way 
to Archangel, where it was imppfiible to want a Ship 
either for England, Holland, or Hamburgh. 

One Night I happened to fall into the Company 
>f an exird Prince, but a very fine Gentleman, whofe 
'irtues ftruift me into fuch a deep Refped, that I 
jropofed a Method for his Enlargement : Herefufed 
le Offer himfelf, and gave me feveral Reafons for 
doing } But, fays he, / ha^ve a Sorif and if you 'ivill 
^e JJJjJiant to him, I Jhall take it as a greater Frie^id- 
Jjhlp than to me. This I very readily complied with, 
and fo the young Prince was inftantly fent for. who 
came as foon as pofiible, and brought with him not 
only a noble Equipage, but withal a confiderablc 
Quantity of Furs and other valuable Merchandize- 
When we had fettled all our other Affairs, the 
riext Thing to be confidijred, was, the Method of 1 
Travelling, which, we concluded, would be beft and I 
fafeft by avoiding the great Towns, and take the Eye- I 
Roads. After we had paffed the River Cama, as we 
were obliged to do, \vc came to a little City on the 
European Side, but the People were moft of them 
Pagans, as in the more remote Part of the Country. 
From this Place we were to pafs a Defart two , 
hundred xVIiles in Breath, and were fet upon in our I 

Palfagc ^! 

. 



4 ne Life and Adventures 

Failage, by a large Troop o^Calmuck Tartan, from. 
vvhoiii we did make a Shift to efcape, but not with- 

; out the greatell Difficulty and Danger. In fhort, 

\ v/e were forced to make ourfelves a fort of a Fortifi- 
cation of the Eoughs and Trees, which Hood us in 
fuch ikad, that tiiGug;i we were leveral I'imes at- 

>ia.;keQ with all the Fury imaginable, yet they could 
rever break in upon our little compact Eo:ly, and fo 
b^ the Stratagem of a Fire, we got off in the Night, 
and laved the Camels, with ail the reil of the Mcr- 

.charidize. 




After we liad pafTed the River Kirtxa^ we canne 
to a l^rge Town named O/hoys, where we heard 
that feveral Troops oi Tizrfms had been Abroad, but 
^b-: we V, ere now pail Danger. We came next to 

Lafi':rc7'Jkoy^ 



^/Robinson Crusoe. y^^ 

Lan.i:renflioy., where we hired Boats to carry our Lug- 
gage ; lb arrived at Archangel the i 3tii Day oijuly 
after a Year and five Months and three Days Journcv. 
We failed from Archangd the 20th of Apr'd^ arid 
came into the ^//vthe i 3th 0^ September following. 
Here my Partner and I fold our Goods, and divided 
the IVToney, and my Share, after all our Loffes, came 



to 3475/.] 



At Hamburgh my young Lord took 



his Leave in order to go to the Court of Vienna^ not 
only for Proteiftion, but for the fake of correfpond- 
ing with his .Father, and the reft of his Friends. 
And after four Months Hay at Hamburgh^ I came 
back to the Hague, and embarked in a Packet-boat 

>r England, and arrived at London the loth O^Jan- 
7, 1705, after ten Years and nine Months' 

jfence. 



"^he End of the Second Voliare* 




Jiift PubliOied, 
Beautifally Printed in Qij^arto, 

T H K 
Gentleman's and Builder's 

REPOSITORY 

O R, 

Architecture Difplay'd- 

CONTAINING, 

The mod ufcful and requifite Problms in Geometry j 
As alfo, the moil eafy, expeditious artd corre^ 
Methods for attaining the Five' Orders of Aichitc< 
ture, by equal Parts, and fewer Divifions, th?" 
any Thing extent. Together with all fuch Rnl^ 
for Arches, Doors, Windows^ Cieling-piece^ 
Chimney-pieces, and their parricular Embellifh-^ 
ments as can be required. Likewife, a large 
Variety of Defigns for Trufs Roofs ; with the 
Method of finding the Hip, either Square or Be- 
vel. Alfo, the moll certain and approved Methods 
of forming Stair-Cafes, with Twilled Rails, i^c. 

The Whole embellifh'd, not only witli Fourfcore 
Plates in ^uartc, but fuch Variety of Ciehng- 
pieces. Shields, Compartment?, and other curious 
and uncommon Decorations, as mufl needs render 
it acceptable to all Gentlemen, Artiiicers and others 

I • who delight in, or practice the Art of Building. 

1 The Defigns by E.Hoppus, and Engraved by B.Cole, 
-^ . Printed for James Hod^es^ on London-Bridge. 
' (Price, Bound in Oalf, ioj.) ^^.^-sf^. 



Robinjon Crufoes 

VISION 



OF THE 



Angelic World 



Vol. III. 



I. 



Olitude is a noble P.efiner of the Mind, aud 
fills it with the brighteft Ideas of Heaven, 
and heavenly Things. Men in a religious Sohtude 
may be truly iaid to enjoy themfelves, and are never 
left alone, than when they are alone. They arc 
delivered from the Snares and Temptations of the 
World ; and when they converfe with themfelves, 
are certain they do not converfe with an Enemy. 

By Solitude I do not mean that Men fhould utterly 
renounce all Convertatioa, and retire into Cells and 
Monafteries ; this I look upon to be an unneceflary, 
and perhaps a fmful Reftraint: But that Solitude 

which 



13S The Life and Ad-ventures ' 

which I am now recommending, is a Retirement of 
the Soul and Mind, in order to a nearer and more 
refined Converfation with Heaven. In fuch a reli- 
gious Solitude, the triieft Peace and Tranquility is to 
be found and eilablifhed, even that eternal Peace of 
God which pafTeth all Under Handings, and is the only 
fure Means of Content upon Earth, and of everlalling 
Happinefs in Heaven. 

II. Honefty, in the ftrifteft Senfe of it fuch as is 
prized by good Men and pretended to by all, is ano- 
ther large Step towards the Angelic M^crid. Ho- 
Hefty is beft feenin its own native Simplicity, and 
V. ants no fine Speeches, or the cmbellifhment of 
Words to fct it off. Plonefty^ in general, is doingj 
to others, as - e would they fhould do unto us 
is keeping aConfcience void of Offence, \^ toward 
God and towards Man, An honeft Man does 
cnly all the out ^ ard Adls of JuHice, s^hich the 
obliges him to, but like-^-ife all friendly, kind 
generous Afts that fall in his Power; he has alwaj 
Solomons Maxim uppermofl: in his Thoughts. Th? 
a good Nam.e is better than Life, and is a precioul 
iOintment, v\hich ■ hen a Man has once loft, he has' 
nothing vvorth keeping. 

III. The next Step to the ^//^f//V World, is the 
patient fuffering of Aifliftion, vhich fhould al vays 
be looked upon as Rods in the Hands of God, to 
ichafti^:eus for our Sins. Many Times injured In- 
inocence m.ay be abufed, but we often find in the 
fend, that the more it is deprefTed, the higher it 
tiks-y whift the Jullice of God, fecretly purfVics 
tlie OpprefTer, and then feldom lea-es him, tiU it 
overtakes him to his Dellruction, The whole Sub- 
filtance of Suffering under unju ft Perfecution, and 
b;:aring up under it with Chriftian Fortitude and Re- 
figfiation. is very well exprefiiid in the following 

Verfes, 



(?/* Robinson Crusoe.' 13^9 

Verfes, by a Gentleman that was under the Misfor- 
tunes of an unjuft Perfecution. 

O mighty Go J, <zvho kncivs my Innocence, 
Jnd hears my Charge as guilty of Offence : 
Prifons and Chains do Jiare me in the Face, 
And my falfe Friends purfue me nvith Difgrace. 
^I hey -view my Ruin n.vith exceeding y^y, 
j^nd many TV.yys thex feek mie to dejlroy ; 
Fe^-iv Friends I ha<ve, and e<vn a?nong thefefexVy 
Some I ha-ve founds I cannot fay are true 'y 
Their Malice' long conceal dj at length is fnenxn, 
Ajid noiv I've no Redrefsy hut Thee alo7ie : 
And^tis to Thee, O gracious God, I come 
To beg of Thee tofa've me from my Doom: 
Spare me, O God, a:cept my Prayrs and Tears, 

indfree me from the World's defruSii've Snares ; 

tt leaf nvbile Tm infuffering, I implore, 
Tfort my Soul, and I ^ill afk no tnore. 

iGw as thefe Virtues before mentioned, give us 
'Prorpe<^ of the Angelic Vifion, fo immortally, 
md the contrary Vices, fmk our Underftanding, de- 
ftroy our Reafon, and what is worfe, deftroy our 
Peace of Mind, without which it is impoffible we 
fnouU be tolerable happy : For Peace is the Daugh- 
ter of Virtue, and Contentment the Sifter of Peace, 

B01V mighty Reafon to th'' Almighty s Name, 
For God and Peace arejuf the <very fame ' 
Where there'' s P cacc ,Hea<d' n Jhenxis a charming Face^ 
And ^,vant of Peace, is Hell in c'very Place. 

Blejl 



140 The Life and Jdveniures 

Bleji Charms of Peace y hoiv Siveet are all thefe Hours 

Jf e pafs aivay in thy Society: 
Affiidions lofein thee their Acid PoiuerSy 

And turn to joys ixhen they arc join d to the. 

They miftake very much who think that an 
honeH moral 'Life deflroys the Compofure of the 
Mind, and renders it unfit for Converfation : It ra- 
ther infpirfis us with innocent Mirth,.which a wicked' 
Man is utterly incapable to enjoy. 



Let the Angelic Worlds and }rL\py,nefs, 

Be nxhat it ivill, "'tis bcji defer iiid by Peace 

No Storms can hurt nxithcut, or Storms <n;ithin 

No Feary no Danger s there , hecaufe no Sin. 

""Tis alia hnght ejfential Happnefs, 

Becaufe he dnxells therein ^hoje Name is Peace. 



^^^S 



They are very wrong who think Religion,' or 
ftrift Morality difcompoies the Mind, and renders 
it unfit for Converfation; for it is rather that which 
infpires us with inr^ocent Mirth indeed, without a 
counterfeit Joy, as' vicious Men appear with : And, 
indeed Wit is as inconfiftent with Religion, as Reli- 
gion is with good Manners, nor is there any Thing 
in the Limitation of Virtue and Religion that fliould 
abate the Pleafure of* it, but, on the contrary', increafe 
it. 

But on the other Hand, many Men, by their own 
Vice and Intemperance, difqualify themfelves for 
Converfation, being of cynical, morofe, furly and 
rude Tempers ; tho' they boaft themfelves otherwife. 
For fome abounding too much in Pride, think they 
are above others, and in this Caft, Self-ccnceit is 

the 



(?/ Robinson Crusoe. 141 

the Bane of Human Society ; for how fhall any Man 
receive any Advantage from the Converfation of o- 
thers, who believes himfelf quaiifyed not to learn 
any Thing from them ? This confirms a Man to be 
a Fool ; for it is impofTible he fhould be fo, if he was 
but once convinced of his Folly. 

If Tools could their oftvn Ignorance difcern, 
'Iheyd be no longer Fools y becaufe tbeyd learn. 

Sat}T has a great deal to remark on the Conver- 
sation of fuch, as, their vain Repetitions, Catchwords, 
laughings and Geftures, particularly of the French, 
cpahijhy and 5i-o/r/^ Fools. Converfation is immoral 
where the Difcourfe is indecent, immodell, fcanda- 
lou^ flanderous and abufivc. And this is too much 
fed by Beaus, Fops, Athieils, and conceited 
is ; who infteadof appearing Wits and Gentle- 
)y it, prove themfeh''cs the reverfe in each Par- 
ticul::r, What Wifdomis there in Men giving them- 
' !ves a Liberty to talk Blafphemy in Defiance of 
eaven; the Majefty of whom they are glad to own 
•ith their lateft Breath ? Or rather, How great is 
their Folly, and how much it is expofed, by affront- 
ing their beft Friend, even God himfclf, before Men 
whofe Notions are uncertain, and yet who laugh at 
the Fool, *i>:hen the Fear comet h. 

As to reforming thefe Errors, we know how much 
the Laws have provided agaimi them -, but let me 
for once prevail with a Man to examine his Vice, 
dilTcct its Parts, and view its Anatomy, how dif- 
agreeiole to him is a Man, a Gentleman, or a 
Chfitiian ; how defpicable and contemptible in its 
ihigheil Fruition! How, deftraclivc to his Senfes, 
jEltateand Reputation; and how beailly in its pub- 
lic 




142 The Life and Adventures 

lie Appearance ; fuch a Man would certainly be out 
of love with Vice, the Reformation would be half 
brought to pafs. 

Now as to the atheiftical Difcourfe, how ei^pty 
and yet how prevailing are their miferable Sophifms 
upon their weak Judgments : And this is evident in 
the following Lines upon the Syftem of Prometheus. 

The great Promethean JrtiJ}, Pcets fay, 

Firji made the Model of a Man in Clay ; ' 

ContrlnJ' d the Form of Parts, audnvhen he'' d done, 

Stoli "vital Heatfrofn the Prolific Sua: 

But not a Poet tells us to this Day, 

Who made Prometheus ^r/?, ayidivho the Clay 

Who gave the great Prolific to the Sun, 

And nvhere thefirfi produdive Work began. 

There are fome, according to the Philofopl 
Epicurus, who fancy the World was made by a ftr? 
fortuitous Conjundion of Atoms, without any 
exilient Influence, or immediate Power. 

Thus fome have dr&amt of Atoms fir angelyhurVd, 
\ into the decent Order of the World, ^ 

Andfo by Chance combind, from <v:hence began 
The Earth, the Hea'ven,the Sea, and Beafi,and Man. 

But let them fay what they will of the Divine 
Power, it is certain their fecret Thought: \ -fledl up- 
on them in the very Ad, and give the Lye to their 
Arguments. ^ - - - . 

Nature 



<i 



^Robinson Crusoe 143 

Nature pays Homage n.\:ith a trembling Bonv, 
And Confcious Men but fai fitly dzfailo<vjf 
The fecvct Trepidation racks the Soul. 
Jnd-iJchile he fay s. No God, replies , Thou Fool! 

The great Scandal fuch Difcourff gives to Virtue, 
ought/ methinks, to be punilhed by the Judges: 
Make a Man once ceafe to beheve God, and he has 
nothing left to limit his Soul, but mere Philoibphy. 
And how incongruous is this to Government, that a 
Man fhould be punifhed for Drunkennefs, or Swear- 
Igng, and yet have Liberty to Affront, and even 
^^ry the Majeily of Heaven ? If a Man gives the* 
^^^o a Gentleman in Company, or perhaps fpeak 
^^^■rd without any offenfive Meaning, he flies into 
''afllon, quarrels, fights, and perhaps murders him ; 
ifl-pt wardsprofecutes him at Law, with the ut- 
ilany and OpprelTion. But, furely, it is a 
ulgar Error in our Behaviour, not to Ihew our 
ment, when we hear the Honour and EfTence 
bd flighted and denied, his Majefly abufed, and 
gion bantered and ridiculed in common Dif- 
^urfe. Eefides, it is an Affront upon ourfelves, 
for either the Ferfon thinks we are Atheifts, 
like himfelf, or ventures to impofe upon us, 
accounting us either as Fools that know not when 
we are put upon, or Cowards, that dare not 
refent it : And therefore fuch Difcourfe ought, for 
good Manners fake, to be avoided, which carries 
in it fo many dellrudive Confequences both to our 
'Souls and Bodies. 

The next Things to be refrained, is obfence^'Dif- 
Icourfe which is the Language only of the Profftients 
lin Debauchery, who never repent but in a Goal or 
Ian Hofpital; and whofeCarcafTes ftink as bad as their 

Dif- 



144 '^^^ ^^f^ and Adventures 

Difcourfe, until the Body becomes too nafty for 
the Soul to ftay any longer in it. For if Cuftom has 
made thefe Things uncommon, or concealed, or at 
leaic banifhed them from the Voice of Converfationj 
it is cenainly a Sin then againft Cuftcm to expole 
them again. No Man can juftify his lewd pifcourfe, 
but he at the fame time throws away his clothj 
or to cover himfelf with his Hands, and uncover him- 
felf with his Tongue, are Contradiftions in their 
own Nature, and one condemns the other. And 
why is not the Ear as liable to be oifended as the 
Eye, fmce both are but the common Organs of Un^ 
■derllanding. j| 

Nor is falfe Talking lefs to be avoided. For 
lying is the Sheep Cloathing hur*g upon the Wolfs 
Back; it is the Pharifees Prayer. The Whore's 
Blufh, the Hypocrite's Paint, the Murderer's Smiles. 
the Thiefs Cloak; it is JoaF^ Embraces, awS 
dahs'2, KiiJs; In a word, it isMankind's lyaii 
SIN, and the Devil's diftinguifliing Charac r 
Some add Lies to Lies till it not -only come < 
be improbable, but even impoiTible too: Ot! 
lie for gain, to deceive delude and betray; aiid^ 
a tliird fort lie for Sport, or, for Fun, as the Boys 
call it which betrays fuch an emptinefs in it 
as not only to merit the Contempt of all Per- 
fons, but makes the Perfons difblieved, even 
when he would fpeak the Truth. And then indeed 
they can lie no longer; for he that no body believes 
can never lie any more, becaufe no body can be 
deceived by him, There are other Liars who are 
perfonal and malicious, who foment DiiFere\ices 
and carry Tales from one Houfe to another, in order 
to gratify their own envious Tempers, without any 
Regard or Reverence to Truth; it is a Thing of no 
value to tiiem, or regard in their Difcourfe, till^ 




o/ Rob iNSON Cr us o E. 145 

at laft they are like the Jack-pudden, or the Stage- 
player, who, to make others Sport at the Hazard of 
their immortal Souls, come at laft penitently to own, 
that they have played the Fool. 

IV. Religion^ I doubt, indeed, there is much 
more Devotion than Religion in the World, more 
Adoration than Supplication, and more Hypocrify 
than Sincerity : And it is very melanchoUy, to con- 
fider, what Numbers of People there are furniflied 
with the Power of Reafon, and Gifts of Nature, and 
yet abandoned to the grofTeft Ignorance and Depra- 
ty. But it would be uncharitable for us to ima- 
, that they will certainly be in the State of 
ation after this Life : For hov/ can we think 
fiftent with the Mercy and Gbodnefs of aii 
nite Being, to damn thofe Creatures when he has > 
fnriMfhed them with the Light of his Gofpel ; or 
1 fuch proud conceited and cruel Biggots 

be Rules to the Juftice and Mercy of God ? 
Moors of Barbary are Mahometans, whofe 
^viow is confined to the Biram and the Ramadem, 
e Feaft and the Faft, to the Mofque -and the Bath; 
ading the Alcoran on one Kand, and performing 
tlie Waihing and Purification on the other, make up 
their Religious Exercife : Among thefe appears no 
generous Temper, no Compaflion to be found. 
When I was among the Natives of Africa^ I perceiv- 
ed many of them without the leaft Notion of a Deity. 
At the Brafils the Natives had abundance of Reli- 
gion, but bloody and cruel; confifting of Murder 
Human Sacrifices, Witchcrafts and Conjuring. The 
Eaji-Indies are generallyPagans or Mahometans, hav- 
ing fuch a Compound of Savage Culloms with them, 
as renders them notorious for Fraud and Theft; 
and though the Subjedls of the Great Mogul, and 
G Jnhabi- 



146 The Life and Adventures 

Injiabitants of Ceylon, live under fevere Difcipline, 
yet it is a very hard Thing to find them honeft. As 
to xh.Q Chvtefe Religion, it is a Foundation, or what 
we may call an Element of light Morality and Su- 
perftition huddled together in a Rhapfody of Words 
without Confiftency, and, indeed, with very little 
Reafoning in it : Their Idols are made according to 
their Priells Inventions. The Perfiam Worfhip the 
Sun ; the 'Tartarians form themfelves Idols of Beafts; 
the former, I think, of the two, is the bell, becaufe 
it aftcdls all Things round it. 



Great Soul of Nature, from nvhofe nj'ital Spring, 
'Due, Heat and Life's diffusd, thro" e'vry Thin^^ 
Guideth the Moon and Stars by differetit Ray, 
The ^een of Night, the Mo7iarch of the Da^ 
The Moon, and Stars, and Earth, and Planets Wbej 
When darker Natiotis fee theeplacd on high. 
And feel thy Warmtl , their Genial Heat fupfly 
Ho'w ijnperceptible thy Infuence, ^^^ 

Slides thro^ their Veins, and touches enfry Senf^^k 
By gli?nmering Nature led, they bo^ their Knee^^ 
Mifake their God, andfacrifce to thee. 



We are told by fome People, that the great Image 
which King Nebuchadfiezzer fet up to be adored by;; 
his People, held the Reprefentation of the Sun in" 
it's Right Hand, as the principal Objeft of Adora- 
tion. But to Wave this Difcourfe of Heathens, how 
many felf-contradifting Principles are there held 
among Chriftians ? And how do we doom one ano- ' 
therto the Devil, while all profefs to worlhip the fame 
D'^ity, and to exped the fame Salvation, 

When 





<?/'RoBiNsoN Crusoe. 147 

When I was at Portugal, there was held at that 
time the court of Juftice of the Inquifion, All ;}ie 
criminals were carried in procelTion to the great church: 
where eight of them were habited in gowns and caps 
of canvas, whereon the torments of hell were dif- 
play'd, and they were condemned and burnt for 
crimes againll the catholick faith and bleded virvrin. 

I am forry to make any refleftions upon chriibans ; 

but indeed in Italy the Roman religion ieems the moft 

cruel and mercenary upon Earth : And a very judi-^ 

cious Pei-fon, v.'ho travelled through thence fi-om 

Tiirkey, tell as, * That th-jre is only the Face, the 

^t^vard pomp of Religion there ; that the church 

tefts murders and airaiTms, and then delivers the 

il magiftrates over to Satan for doing juftice ; in- 

terdidls whole kingdoms, and fhuts up the church, 

^<St want of paying a few ecclefiaftical dues„ and (o 

piift a ftop to Religion for want of their money : 

^ri^at the court of Inqufition burnt two men for 

^Hpeaking difhonourably of the blefled. Virgin; and 

^f the Mifiionaries of China tolerated the woriliipping 

B of the Devil by their new Converts : That Italy was 

■* the Theatre, where Religion was the Grand Opera, 

* and that the FopiJIj Clergy were no other theii the 

< Stage-Players. 

As 1 was once in a City in Flanders, T perceived a 
great Commotion there of People, who were fearch- 
ing for a certain federate or wicked Man, who had 
broken into a Chapel in the City, and had flolen the 
Pix and Cafket wherein the facred Hoft was depofi- 
ted; that is, what they believe to be the real Body 
of our BlefTed Saviour, being Tranfubftantiated, as 
they call it, from the Subllance of Bread. 1 1 was not- 
long before he was found ; nor his Execution m ' 
longer deferred. Before his Death he confefs'd hK ;. . ^ 
thrown it into an houfe of office ;. whichbeing fea 



I'cn •■ 



fox 



148 The Life and Adventures 

for, and the Wafer not to be found, immediately 
the Place was judged and confecrated, ipfo faeto, 
turned into an Oratory, and the devout People flock- 
ed to it, to expiate by their Prayers, the Difhonour 
done to the Lord Q/od, by throwing his precious 
Body into fo vile a Place. 

As to Religion in Poland they deny Chrift to be 
the Mefriah, or that the MelTiak was come in th« 
f'ielh,and as to their Proteftants,they are the Follow- 
ers of Lellus Socinus, who denied our Saviour's Divi- 
Tiity ; and have no Concern about the Divine Infpira- 
tion of the Koly Gholl. 

In y.iijcc^jy their Churches are built of Wood, anc 
indeed they have wooden Priefts, tho' of the Gri 
Church. They pray as much to St. Nicholas , as^ 
Papifts do to the Virgin Mary^ for Protedion 
their Difficulties and Affledlions. 

As to the Lutherans, they only differ from tl 
nans in believing Confubftantiation, inftead of 
{ijbrtantiation; but, like them, they are much pl( 
"With the external Gallantry andPomp,more than' 
real and true Practice of it. None can be more jeal 
lous of their Hierarchy, than the EcclefialHcs of this 
Church, who are afraid to reform further, left, as 
they gave a Stab to the Perquifites and Vails of God 
Ahuighty's Service in the Roman Church, modern 
Reformation might give the like to them ; and there- 
fore, they fet a Pale about the Church, perfecuting 
and invading like the reft. But what Charity can 
here be, where there is no Peace ? And what Reli- 
gion, where there is no Charity ? 

jn Fr ''^r" I found a World of Priefts, and the 
Streets every where crouded with them, and the 
Churches full of VVomen,but certainly never was a Na- 
tion fofullofblindGuides, fo ignorant of Religion,and 

even 



^/ Rob iNSON Crusoe. 149 

even as void of Morals asthofe People that confefs 
their Sins to them. And as the HugucnoU ^^^^'^"^ 
away/or their Religion, and yet left it ^fj^^^^ ^^f "^/ 
while thole behind are n.ere Hypocrites, neithcc 
Papiih,nor Huguenots, for they go to Mafs with Pro- 
teftants there, and while they call themfelves Prote- 
Hants, bow down in the Houfe oiRimmon. 

Nowitfeems fli^onge, that while all Men own 
the Di-inc Being, there fhould be ^o v^^T^y m.x^^t 
Sentiir.ents of paying him Obedience in the Chnftian 
Church : I know not what Reafon to affigu for thi=, 
except it be their different Capacities and Faculties : 
Let three Men read the famedodrinal Article, fu?- 
pofing it to be cf the Trinity, or any otl^r; ^vhy 
one thinks certainlv he had found out the Myftery, 
goes on with Enquiries and brings every Sciiptur^ 
Ind Paffage to correfpond with his firll Notion AnD- j 
ther comes to the fame Scripture, and m feavch aiter \ 
the fameDoftrine, and yet receives other Notions 
quite different from the former, or at leaft very re- 
mote from them... The third Man reads ovei- the 
fameText,perhap3" with Indifferency to the Subftance, 
aud whether he attains to a right or a wrong Intor- 
mation, became away with as much Uncertainty as , 
he went. Now thefe three Peifons are enough t» ; 
fill the World with Difputes about Religion. ^ 1 ha 
firll t^^'0 equally pofitive in their different Cpmion^^ - 
fall out, part, condemn, cenfure, revile and, it. 
they have Opportunity, perlecute one another, witlx 
their Adherents. While the third Man laughs, at thei« 
all, for being a Parcel of Fools, in falling out about 
thofe Things which neither of them can be certain, 

of. " , . J 

And bdeed, upontliis Account, we have perccivect 

in all Chriftian Countries what mortal Feuds havej 

G 3. ^' ^'" 



150 , ne Life and Adventures 

been about Religion ; what Wars and Bloodihed ha* 
inolefled Europe, till the general Pacification of the 
German Troubles at the Treaty of JVeJiphalia : And 
fince thofe Times,what Perfecution,inthe fame Coun- 
try , between the Churches of Lutherans and Cahenijis? 
And fhould I take a Profpeft of Home, what unhap- 
py Divifions are between Chriftians in this Kingdom 
ab lut Epifcopacy, and Prefbytery, the Church of 
England Men, and the DifTenters ; and where they 
withftand one another, like St. Paul and St. Peter, 
even to the Face i as much as to fay, carry on the 
Difpute to the utmoft Extremity. 

It might be a Queftion, why there are fuch Dif- 
. ferences in Religious Points, and why theie Breaches 
fhould be more hot and irreconciliable ? All the An- 
fwer I can give to this, is, that we enquire more con- 
cerning the Truth of Religion, than any other Na-. 
tion in the World ; and the anxious Concern we hare] 
about it, makes us jealous of every Opinion, and te- 
natious of our own : And this is not becaufe we are 
more furious, cenforious and rafh than other People ; 
but the Truth is, we are the more concerned about 
them, and fenfible that the Scripture is the great 
Rule of Faith, the Standard of Life and Doftrine,\ve 
have recourfe to it ourfelves, without fubmitting to 
any pretended infallible Judge upon Earth. 

There is another Queilion, pertinent to the former; 
what Remedy can we apply to this Malady ! And to 
this I mull negatively anfwer, not to have us be Icfs 
Religious, that we might diifer lefs about it, but to 
be more humble, and more charitable : And this is 
ftriking to the very Root of all Religious Differen- 
ces ; for, cer!:ainly, were they to be carried on with 
a peaceable Spirit, v/illing to be informed, our Va- 
rit'ry of Opinions would not have the Name of Dif- 
ferences, 



( 



cf Rob I NSON C R u s o E. 151 

ferences, norlhould wefeparate a Communion and 
Charity, though we did not agree in feveral Articles 
of Religion. 

Nor is there a lefs ufeful Qiieftion to flart, namely. 
Where will our unhappy Religious Differences end ? 
To which, I hope, I may anfwer, in Heaven: 
There allunchriftian and unbrotherly Differences will 
find a Period : There we fhall embrace many a Sinner, 
that here we think it is. a Difhonour to converfe with;, 
and perceive many a Heart we have broken here 
with Cenfures, Reproaches and Revilings, made 
whole again by the Balm of the fame Redeemer's 
Blood. Here we Ihall perceive there have been q- ' 
ther Flocks than thofe of our Fold > that thofe we^ 
have excommunicated have been taken into that 
fuperior Comm.union; and, in a Word, that thofe 
contradidling Notions and Principles, which we 
thought inconfiftent with true Religion, we ihall then 
find recancileable in themfelves to one another, ar.d 
to the Fountain of Truth. If any Man afk me, why ^ 
our Differences cannot be ended on Earth? I anfwer, j 
were we all thoroughly convinced that then they 
would be reconciled, we would put an End to thena 
before ; but this is impofflble to be done : For as 
Men's certain Convictions of Truth are not equal to 
one another, or to the Weight or Significancy of fuch 
Veracity ; fo neither can a general Effeil of this Af- 
fair be expeded on this Side of Time, this Side of 
the Grave. 

Before I conclude the Chapter, I (hall beg leave 
to Difcourfe a little of the Wonderful Exeellci\oy of 
the Negative Religion, and Negative Virtue. The lat- 
ter fets out like the Pharifee, with, God I thank ye ; iti 
is a Piece of religious Pageantry, the HypocriteV 
Hope; and, in a Word, it is pofitive Vice : For i'^ 
is either a MaHc to ^eccive others, or a Miil.t< 

deceh 






,152 fhe, U}e and. Adventures 

I deceived ourfeh- 3, A ?vTan thit is cloathedwith Ne- 

^ gative;, thu: argues: i am not fuch a Drunkard, as. 

\ ray Landlord, fuch a -Thief as ir;y Tenant, fuch a 

Swearei as- my Neighbour^ neither am I a Cheat, 

Athiefl, a rakifli Fellow, or a Highwayman! Noj 

I li^'e a fober, regular, retired Life: I am a good 

'Man, I go to Church, .God I thank thee. Now 

',tho' a Man boails of his Virtue in Contradiflion to 

the Vice mentionecf, yet aPerfon had bettei be them. 

, altogether, than the Man himfeif : For he w ho is fo. 

f full of himfeif, fo perfuaded that he is good and 

^ Religious enough ah-eady, that he has no TPiOughts 

■ of any Thing, except it be to pull off his Llat now 
and then to God Almighty, and thank him that he 
has no Occafion for him ; and has the Vanity to 
think that his Neighbours muft imagine well of him 
too, 

For my Part, I think that the general Slander of a 
prejudic'd Age, and a State of univerfal Calumny, is 
to be preferred where the Mind is free from the Guilt 
that any vilainoully charge : For fuch a Man, riio' 
the World fpits upon and contemns him, and threat- 

■ ^ns his Deftrudion, looks in with. Conifort, and up 
with Hope. 

- ■ ■ J iic murus Aheneus ejlo, 

]:stl confcire fihiy nulla fallef cere culpa.. 



\kx 



I know at the Great and Laft Day, when the Se- 
crets of all Hearts fhall be difclofed, that we Hiall be 
\then thoroughly enlightened, and plainly fee how 
iWiUch we have been millaken in Notions of Virtue 
and Vice, Religion and Irreligion, in the Charadlers. 
f our Neighbours. And, I realjy believe, we fhall 
e many of our Neighbours placed at the Right 

Hand 



(j/* Robinson Crusoe. 155 

Hand of a Righteous Judge, whom we have bafely 
oppreficd with Slanders, and whom, in this Life, we 
have cenforioufly placed at our Left Hand. And this ' 
oughc to be the Suppoiiiwf a good Man, (as the Roy- 
al Pfabniji faith) whe^. his Enemies have him in De- 
rifion. Scandal, indeecl, is much worfe than Slander ; 
for the firft is founded upon real Guilt, the other at- 
tacks Innocency. Nothing is a Scandal, but what is 
true ; nothing a Slander but what is falfe : And there- 
fore he that fortifies himfelf againft Reproach, muft 
do it with a certain Referve of real and folid Viuue, 
Uprightnefs and Integrity. 

We live in a State of univerfal Calumny, and how 
is it pofllble we ihould have any Profpecl of the An- 
gelic World, whilil we harbour fuch a curfed Gueft 
among us r He that will therefore qualify himfelf to 
jtake a View of Eternity, muft firft fortify himfelf a- * 
^ainft all the little Attacks of Scandal and Reproach, 
^hich can be no otherways affedled, but by the Rules 
xf real and folid Virtues, as the Poet expreffes it in 
the foUowino- Words : 

Happy the Man, n.':hov:ith exalted Soul, 
Knoins hov: to rate the great, the profperous Fool; 
Who can the Infults of the Mob co?jitemn, 
Aiid ^values not the idle 'Tongue i of Men : 
He, like the Sun, exjjis in his o^wn Flame, 
Andivhen he dies is to himfelf a Fame. 

It would be. too long to inform the Reader, how 
thefe Notions of the Angelic World came into my 
Head. All that I fhall tell him, is. They were the 
Munera Solitudinis, the pure Gift of Solitude. When 
I had fettled my Affairs in Town, I retired fome 
Dirtance into the Country, where I had an Oppor- • 
tunity to take a tranCtory View of my pait Life and to 

make i 



154 ^he Life and Adventures^ &c; 

make my Remarks upon the feveral dangerous Ad- 
ventures I had met with, and how many furprifmg 
Occurrences I had encountered. When I came to 
^put thefe Tilings together, I muft ov/n, I was Hlled 
with a juft Contempt of this World, and began to 
think that there was no real-Profpea: of Happinefs 
on this Side the Angelic World, 

Z7/c V irft a Snare ^ a Labyrinth of IVoe^ 
Which ^vr etched Men is doom to jiruggle through ^ 
T'j Day he s great, To-^norroiv he's undone, " -. 
Jnd thus :vith Hope and Fear he blunders on: 
Tillfome Difeafe, or elf e, perhaps, old Age, 
Calls the poor Mortal trembling from the Stage. 



, A>0jt<yi./. 



^^ H i^ 



X'< 



'<^.fj 



F I N I S. 




/f/^A^ 



Books lately PiihlijVd, 

Printed for C. Hitch, R. Ware, 
and J. Hodges. 



i^TpHE COMPLEAT CONSTABLE: 
X Direfting Conftables, Headboroughs, 
Overfeers, Church- Wardens, ^c. in the Duty of 
their Offices, price bound u. 

2. D' Anois's Tales of the Fairies. 3 vols. 
I2ves. 

3 . The Young Mathematicians Guide : Being a . 
plain and eafy Introduftion to the Mathematicks ; 
in 5 Parts. With an Appendix of Pradical Gauging. 
The fixth Edition, corredled by the Author, John 
Ward. 8vo. 

4. The Inftrudor; or Young Man's befl Com- 
^ mion : Containing Spelling, Reading, Writing, 

j&iand Arithmetic, in an eafier Way than any yet pub- 
'ifhed; aixi how to qualify any Man for Bufinefs 
'■without the Help of a Mafter. By George Fijher^ 
Accompt. price bound zs. 6d. with Cuts and a new 
Frontifpiece, curioufly engraved. 

5. A new Englijh Accidence, by way of Ihoit 
Queftion and Anfwer, built upon the plan of the 
Latin Grammar, fo far as it agrees and is confident 
with the Nature and Genius of the Englifl? Tongue. 
Defigned for the Ufe and Benefit, and adapted to th^ 
Capacity of young Lads at the JEngliJh Schools, ^c. 
prige bound i/. 

6. An Introduflionto Spelling ani.Rea^ing£;z^///^; 
being the mbft plain and eafy Method of Teaching 
young Children to Read : Containing, i . Tables of 
Monofyllables. 2. tables of Diffyllables. 3. Tables 
of Triflyllables, with their proper Divifion and 
Accent. The fourteenth Edition, by W, Markhamy 
School Mafter. price bound u. 



BOOKS lately Puhli/hed. 

7. The Youth's AlTiftant in the Art of Number- 
ing, or an eafy Method of Aritlimetlc, in all it^ 
Parts, vulgar and decimal j wherein the youno- 
Scholar is inftrudled in all the Rules contained in that 
moil valuable Science, by W. Markha^n. price 6d. 

8. The Chriftian School -Mailer; or an Extraft of 
Scripture Hiftory, in 2 Parts, with an Appendix, 
containing a Ihort Account of the Lives, Adlions, • 
Travels, and Perfecutions of the Holy Evangelills, 
t^c. by D. Bellamy^ formerly of St. Johns College, 
Oxon. price \s. 

g. The Builders Guide, and Gentleman and Tra- 
der's Afliftant, or a Univerfal Magazine of Tables : 
Wherein is contained greater Variety than any other i'^ 
Book of its Kind ; with feveral new and uieful Tables 
na^er before publilhed, iffc. The Work illuftrated 
with a great Variety of Examples, applicable to the 
various Branches of Trade in general ; and after fo 
concife a Method, that mull needs render it ufefu ' 
to all Artifts, Cf r. and eafy to every Capacity. B^ 
J^^. Salmon, Junior, price bound 3/. 

I o. The Syren : Containing a compleat Colleftion 
of 420 of the moft celebrated £»g/(/^ ^nd Scotch Songs 
price bound zs* '^ 






,^ 



jy^^j'i''^H:{ 










^t.^ 



